mr president, today's societies face the great danger of global warming and all that such a change of scale can bring. the first consequences are already being felt and are only a very small part of what will follow if we do not act decisively. but unfortunately this is a problem that cannot be tackled by individual states, nor by the european union as a whole. we need all countries to commit to actually reducing harmful emissions, but that is highly unlikely. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the treaty on european union. it is not enough to impose strict environmental standards on european companies. i believe we should ban imports from countries and companies that do not meet our standards, wherever they may be. finally, i am extremely wary of the excessive concentration of power that this report promotes, as it has so far proved to be extremely ineffective. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i agree with you because this is the cycle of nature. but if we take into account the pollution of the environment by countries like china and india, i can tell you that europe is much less polluting than all these countries.
the commissioner, mr cañete, has said that the renovation of buildings to increase energy efficiency is an important tool that we can use immediately and necessarily to tackle energy poverty and to create jobs. we can indeed reduce the bill of 350 billion from fuel imports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must start not only with public buildings but also with areas affected by energy poverty. i'll give you just two numbers: in thessaloniki last year, in a survey i conducted, 53% of households had difficulty meeting their heating bills and 7% were unable to pay. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the energy efficiency of buildings, as well as the energy efficiency of buildings, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the energy efficiency of buildings. at the same time, it is important to apply strong fiscal and development incentives to energy upgrading projects that will mobilise investment by making use of all available resources.
mr president, while we are here discussing the issues of clean energy, in greece citizens are protesting, holding rallies and striking against the new memorandum measures of the multi-member bill that reduces the benefits of three- and multi-children, restricts the right to strike, launches electronic auctions, increases indirect taxes and sells 34% of the shares of the public electricity company, pte, to the occupation fund controlled by the lenders. in addition, the sale of 17% of the shares of ppc through taiped is being launched, and the sale to private parties of 40% of the lignite reserves and lignite units of ppc and its mines is being started. so instead of being exempted, like the polish and bulgarian ppps, from paying emission rights, thus saving eur 400 million a year, the lignite units are sold off to the chosen creditors. in addition, 100,000 households are facing the specter of energy poverty, and 35,000 poor households have had their electricity cut off due to debt. what do you say, mr cañete, about these matters?
mr president, the clean energy policy, especially the use of renewable sources, is another proof of the multi-speed europe, as is the case with the economy and growth. the union's binding target of a 35% share of energy from renewable sources, with parallel national participation, is not achievable horizontally for all member states. the reasons are many and varied. they mainly concern the lack of infrastructure technology and financial resources, making it extremely difficult to implement, manage and monitor single support schemes. the protection of ecosystems, biodiversity and the environment in general directly linked to energy production and exploitation has a cross-border dimension, given that environmental pollution knows no borders and that the effects of pollution are, over time, multiplying. in the light of the above, i can say that, especially in the field of energy alone, europe can and must play a more active role, helping and even overlapping, where necessary, national strategies and actions.
mr president, the protection of marine ecosystems is essential to the establishment of sustainable fisheries. the controls of international organizations such as iccat, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, play an important role. in the aegean sea, turkish fishing vessels, accompanied by vessels of the turkish coast guard, are illegally fishing in greek territorial waters, committing piracy. moreover, the turkish navy, claiming to be acting on behalf of iccat, attempted to board greek fishing vessels in international waters near kastelorizo, without, of course, the turks complying with the specifications, i.e. flying the iccat flag, and without the presence of an iccat inspector. i ask you, mr. vella, to consider this complaint. i'll send you all the information i have. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, as has been said, the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation is a new organisation but it plays a very important role. and i think that the discussion has shown that measures to protect marine flora and fauna, throughout the region, but particularly in the antarctic region, are very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union certainly has interests in the region. it is of course of interest, mainly because european union vessels are fishing for chilean lizard in the area, but it should be noted that while, formally, european union fishing vessels come from four different member states, in fact it is the same company that is operating in the area. i think the proposals in the report are interesting and, from then on, everyone will have a say in the vote.
mrs crețu, a decade after the first macro-region, macro-region strategies are a long-term investment aimed at making the countries' choices complementary and maximising cooperation. the idea is really advanced. in particular in regions with historical tensions, such as the balkans, which are not only composed of eu member states, it is also challenging because it leads to cooperation across sectors and sectors. tourism, transport, the environment, energy cooperation are areas in which we cooperate in the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the commission has honoured me by awarding me a pilot project to tackle energy poverty, for which i thank you very much. it is necessary, however, to give the macro-regional strategies the framework for the next step. since resources are scarce, it is necessary to encourage macro-regions to develop projects in areas with high added value, while minimising local competition.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of regional authorities is a good one. the regions are involved, the municipalities are involved, the private sector is involved, civil society is involved. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the adriatic and ionian macro-region is very important, it concerns 70 million inhabitants and 7 states. it should be noted, however, mrs crețu, that albania, which is part of the macro-region, should finally respect the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus. because the rights of this minority are being violated there, churches are being demolished, greek properties are being demolished, and i do not think that a process in the adriatic-ionian macro-region can proceed with this behaviour on the part of the albanian authorities, on the part of mr rama and his entourage.
madam president, with regard to the cozzolino report, what mrs crețu said on behalf of the commission is a message to strengthen macro-regional strategies beyond 2020. the question now is whether we can all be more effective, whether we can go from declarations to action, and everyone can and must do more, the commission and parliament, by implementing effective monitoring, but also the regions and the member states and the private sector. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the establishment of a european regional development fund, the establishment of a european regional development fund, the establishment of a european social fund, the establishment of a european regional development fund, the establishment of a european regional development fund, the establishment of a european social fund, the establishment of a european regional fund, the establishment of a european regional fund, the establishment of a european social fund, the establishment of a european regional fund, etc. in particular, the 'adriatic-ionian' strategic cooperation also serves another major objective: the enlargement of the european union towards the western balkans, which is good for both the european union and the western balkans and for peace in the region.
question with a blue card. you know, the exemption granted to greece in october 2015 was in recognition of the impact that prolonged political uncertainty had on financing. but it all worked out fine. the closure of the 2007-2013 period went very well, the start of the 2014-2020 period went very well. i would therefore ask mr arimont what the debate is about today. it has been entrusted with the task of collecting data on the absorption of resources in greece. if he has information which we do not know, and which the commission has not quoted, we should know it. if not, he's perpetuating the stereotypes even unwittingly. and when will we finally have the results of his research?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the implementation of regulation 2015/1839 as regards the special measures for greece has not produced the much-publicized results and certainly has not been able to make a decisive contribution to the creation of thousands of new jobs and the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises. at the same time, the juncker plan has only done so much for greece as to make it easier for foreign state-owned multinationals to establish their foothold in the greek economy. in the opening decision, the commission expressed doubts as to whether the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the airport. in addition, cosmote, a subsidiary of the state-owned deutsche telecom, received eur 150 million from the project, which will amount to eur 400 million with the leverage. the commission has therefore decided to grant aid to the multinationals, rather than to small and mediumsized greek enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the data presented to us by commissioner crețu shows, ladies and gentlemen, that regulation 2015/1839, which we adopted by a large majority in july 2015, has borne fruit. greece is recovering and most of the projects, which in july 2015 were incomplete and should have been finished in 2013, have been completed, are being completed and are moving forward. productivity is increasing. greece has returned to growth. unemployment is falling. so instead of some here claiming that they do not know, they are being asked, mr arimont, to take the evidence and use it as proof that what we have adopted by a large majority in the european parliament and the commission is working and is delivering. and if you don't listen to me, listen to mrs. spirac, who is a member of your political group.
the european union, one of the main culprits for the destruction of the greek economy and the impoverishment of greek life, has introduced emergency financial measures to provide liquidity and cover the deficits of public resources. but these measures were not effective because, as already mentioned here, the european parliament and the european commission could not coordinate. greece's economic problem is artificial. it was deliberately created to save the euro and to allow the creditors to seize the rich energy reserves that exist underground and under the sea in our country. the problem of the unemployed is not a problem of the unemployed, but of the unemployed. the reasons are: the implementation of the memoranda, the lending on usurious terms, the imposition of an illegal and odious debt on the country, and, moreover, the destruction of primary production. finally, there is the transformation of the country into a vast camp for illegal immigrants, in which humanitarian europeans have allowed these unfortunate people to live in miserable conditions. so these reasons must be eliminated. everything else is a half-measure. it is the aspirin with which the european union is trying to cure an incurable disease which it has caused.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without this evidence you have presented, the deep greek crisis would have been deeper. but the overall picture is unfortunately bleak. the greek economy, uncompetitive and based for decades on loans and the state of corruption, was inevitably led to the crisis of 2010 that wiped out 27% of gdp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's excellent intentions will have very little impact on the competitiveness and sustainability of the greek economy without extending the repayment of the public debt, reducing tax evasion, radically reorganizing the public administration, stopping the plurality of laws that foster corruption, speeding up the administration of justice. and especially if we don't accept that the customer system is no longer viable. you have no idea why seven years was not enough to get greece out of the memoranda.
madam president, greece is experiencing the worst crisis in 70 years. the crisis has caused severe liquidity problems in the public sector and lock-outs in the private sector. the previous government of antonis samaras had asked for, and with the help of the european union, obtained, considerable funding. he had designed and prepared a list of 175 projects, worth five billion euros. the current government is bringing citizens and businesses to their knees by overtaxing them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. the reality is reflected on the european commission's website. greece started with the largest down payment of 8%, twice as much as the other countries, but it's fifth in absorption. if we subtract the advances, it's in tenth place. the tenth position is due to the fact that the absorption rate comes from completed projects from the previous erdf. in any case, it's a program that helped. i would like to thank mrs creţu for the effort she and the european commission have made and mrs macovei for her question.
commissioner creţu, i would like to remind you that those times were indeed a time of prolonged uncertainty and that indeed, fortunately for all of us, the measures taken had a positive impact both on the effective closure of the programmes for the first period 2007-2013 and on the start of the 2014-2020 period. i have already raised the question of the appropriateness of this. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. secondly, i would like to ask you if you have any information on the time when the greek government will proceed with the definition of the national development bank, since it can facilitate the mixing of community funds with funds from the private sector.
madam president, greece is the member state of the union which has suffered the worst of all in the last decade, losing about a quarter of its national income and hundreds of thousands of young people who have emigrated abroad. the approximately eur 1,5 billion granted through regulation 2015/1839, in excess of those applicable to the other member states of the union, was a very welcome aid at a very difficult time for my country. but unfortunately, that is not enough. the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the new financial perspective to the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. what is needed for the future is to reduce the primary surplus requirements for greece from the exorbitant 3.5% to at least 2% in order to finance growth, which will create jobs and allow greek society to balance itself.
in writing. climate change and global warming are creating climate refugees. of these, women are the most vulnerable population precisely because of the lack of measures to consolidate gender equality. for this reason, climate justice requires measures to achieve social, labour and pay equality between men and women. it is well known that gender equality remains the greatest challenge of our times. gender gaps have decreased significantly in recent years, but progress varies across member states and inequalities still exist in a number of areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in particular in the developing world, which is particularly affected by climate change, women, although overwhelmingly working in agriculture, are still a very small percentage of those who own farmland. in addition, access to water in these countries is particularly difficult and those most affected are also women, who are also responsible for domestic work and food preparation.
madam president, the congratulations of the european union, the imf and the united states and, of course, of the employers to the syriza-anel government for its dirty work, forcing the other bourgeois parties to compete who does it best, confirms that fair development in capitalism means more wealth for fewer and more poverty for more. the third review of the memorandum is preliminary to the new measures of the fourth review with capital tax breaks, redistribution of poverty, electronic auctions of banks and the state even for 500 euros. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. prerequisite of prerequisites, terrorizing the workers. the crowning achievement of the memoranda was the enactment of the substantial abolition of the right to strike. they sow winds, they reap storms. it won't pass! labor struggles, anti-trust, anti-capitalist with social alliance will send their laws and their inspirers to the dustbin of history.
the european council also employed the so-called social pillar, the political firework discovered by the commission's communications staff, to conceal the anti-social face of european union policies. instead of converging economies and societies in europe, with your policies, we have an explosion of inequalities between countries, as well as between rich and poor within states. instead of decent jobs, which would guarantee a high standard of living, you have led to the breakdown of industrial relations and the weakening of workers. the recent example is greece, where yesterday the entire reactionary system ruling the country, with the neo-memorandum government syriza-anel in the lead, seized the right to strike, the only weapon left to greek workers to resist the unprecedented cuts in wages, pensions and benefits, just to get another dose from the troika. mr president, the greek and european workers do not expect their demands to be met by mr juncker, mr draghi, mr macron, mr tsipras - they have declared themselves to be protectors of the banks and the euro - and they know that they must fight to overthrow the neoliberal policies.
mr president, from the discussions at the european council summit, i would like to draw attention to the following: the european pillar of social rights is a utopian proclamation. it is dishonest to talk about equal opportunities and access to the labour market, about rights and social protection at a time when memoranda have been imposed on greece equating employment with forced labour of the stalinist type. the council, the commission and the appointed technocrats are projecting their concerns, problems and existential ideals, undermining the dominant decisions of democratically elected governments in an unequal negotiating position. the only certainty is that european politics is being pursued cynically and lightly, beyond the real needs and challenges of citizens, and for the selfish benefit of certain apolitical decision-making centres. instead of continuing the present punitive approach based on arbitrary and unilateral criteria until it has been completely degraded, the union should apply the treaties on the proportional treatment of member states in the framework of cooperation and solidarity.
mr president, each council of the union has drawn up a map, drawing connections, of the future which concerns you so much. increased competition of capital, both international and intra-eu, for profit and power. common denominator is the intensity of the brutality. see this: banking union, that is, the strengthening of banks for new capital financing, means auctions of people's wealth everywhere. the european monetary fund replaces the international monetary fund, which means that the committee is perpetuated everywhere. social pillar of sharing poverty, insecurity, flexible employment, i.e. reduced popular demands and social consensus. and if that is not achieved, repression. the european union is a world-wide presence for its interests within and distinct from nato, enhanced military cooperation. that is, exporting a so-called democracy, in reality a war, with thousands of victims and refugees drowned or trapped. games holding them back, whether they need them as slaves or not. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations. in any case, the intensity of the exploitation and the risks to the people. the wolf alliance of capital is not humanized. it overthrows with it the authority of every state.
mr tusk, your stance on immigration has sparked a storm of protest in greece and particularly in the aegean islands. where the migratory flows continue unabated. the aegean islands, where there are now over 15,000 refugees and illegal immigrants. mr tusk, greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. of the 66,400 resettlements of refugees that the european union has committed to carry out in the last two years from greece, in the end only one third of the resettlements have been carried out. and you, mr tusk, instead of supporting the relocation programme, have torpedoed it by harassing countries which refuse to implement relocation. the only solution for greece, as we have already proposed since 2015, is for greece to leave schengen, so that my country stops being a magnet for thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants.
mr president, one of the issues which the european council has once again tackled is the issue of immigration. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european parliament has been unable to reach a decision on the matter, and that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. the european union is simply refusing to deal with the root causes of migration and the side effects that go with it. while, for example, it is universally accepted that the external borders, especially those of the countries of entry, must be effectively controlled, this task has been taken away from the security forces of the countries and given to ineffective agencies such as the european border and coast guard. the result is that hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants, pushed there by turkey, are crowded, mainly on the greek islands, and remain living in miserable conditions for an unknown length of time because many countries have closed their borders and do not accept their share. so what treaty are we talking about? what asylum procedures? the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, while the president is very nice to talk about races now. it is a very good occasion. just one week ago, not 500 years ago, but a week ago, president trump of the united states said that africa, haiti and other countries are shitholes. (heckling)why are you reacting like that? i am saying that the president of the united states insulted the whole of africa. he insulted all the people of colour. he insulted all europeans. we believe in democracy and equality of races. the european parliament must take a stance against mr trump. that is what i am saying. (applause)
mr president, fortunately after five decades of continuous war, the situation in colombia seems to be normalizing, albeit at a slower pace than we would like. the farc, the largest armed group in the country until last year, in cooperation with the government has already given very positive examples and, despite the various problems that have arisen, shows that it remains loyal to the peace process. on the contrary, the eln, after the end of the first ceasefire in 50 years, continued to attack. a development that makes none of us happy. we must call on both the government and the rebels to return to the talks, since both sides have already expressed their willingness to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that armed groups have exploited the vacuum left by the disarmament of the farc and have rushed to take over the areas it controlled, creating new problems in a country which is trying to recover and end a war which has cost nearly 300 000 lives.
mr president, a bombing attack on a pipeline carrying oil from colombia to ecuador, attributed to the national liberation army (eln) rebels, is endangering the peace process in the country. president santos is inclined not to extend the ceasefire agreement. if that happens, it will be a step backwards. it is a fact that in the last 25 years colombia has experienced a significant development. from a global center of corruption, drug trafficking, human rights abuses and murder for political and non-political purposes, it has evolved technologically. but as contradictory as this may seem, colombia's problem is that it is rich in oil. this makes it vulnerable to the interests of the international oil giants who will not let it be easily snatched away from them. they want to manipulate and control her. the same is true of greece, whose economy was destroyed when it was discovered and certified that it had abundant energy reserves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human and political rights is a non-negotiable principle of the european union's constitution. it is clear that iran has a long way to go in this direction. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. but parliament must not in any way support those who deliberately use these principles to give the nuclear agreement with iran a boost, at a time when the international atomic energy agency has repeatedly certified compliance with all the commitments contained in it. i am glad that mrs mogherini made the position of the european union clear when she met the foreign minister of iran last week. europe must pursue an independent foreign policy to counterbalance the destructive policy of the united states, which seems to be moving from america first to america alone.
madam president, in recent weeks, iran has naturally been the focus of international attention. the government appears to be in control of the situation but it remains fragile because the causes that caused the recent unrest are still in place. iran is the second largest economy in the middle east. second in the world in natural gas reserves and fourth in crude oil reserves. but the hegemonic role it wants to play in the middle east puts it in conflict with the interests of the united states, which has imposed sanctions on it. these sanctions have consequences for the country's economy which, if deteriorated, could lead to a recurrence of the unrest. the european union therefore has a first-class opportunity to provide political support to iran, to help it to make the envisaged and required democratic reforms and to become a factor of stability in the region. the decision by tehran to sign the nuclear arms control treaty is not only a sign of goodwill but also a contribution to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. the european union must therefore convince the united states to lift the sanctions against iran and at the same time help to bring peace to the region and to promote trade relations between the european union and iran.
madam president, iran is once again being used as a chessboard for global geopolitical and geostrategic tactics, with the us-russia and their allies' intentions of influence becoming apparent. the pro-western shah ruled after the white revolution with western help until 1979, and since then the shiite ayatollah khomeini with the islamic revolution, the help of russia and other relevant countries, seized power by establishing a state controlled by islamist clerics. the common feature of these regimes is that both have prevailed through revolutions aided and abetted by foreign powers, while any opposition has been violently suppressed and political opponents have been imprisoned or exiled. the union must not be in any doubt as to which side to choose. but since european leaders cannot agree on a common line against iran because of their different national interests, what they should take seriously is the worryingly active involvement of erdogan's turkey in the country's internal affairs, as has happened with syria and other countries in the middle east.
madam president, developments in iran cannot be dealt with in isolation from those in the wider region caused by the interventions of powerful imperialist powers. iran's alliance of interests with syria, iraq, russia and turkey also brings about intense competition for iran's nuclear program with powers such as the united states, the european union, israel, saudi arabia, who see their own interests in the wider region being affected. the european union and its governments are playing a particularly dangerous role. the mobilizations, which are an expression of the accumulated popular problems such as punctuality, poverty, unemployment experienced by the iranian people, are being exploited in the games of competing powerful monopoly interests and imperialist forces. they're in control of vast deposits and trade deals, exploiting iran's geostrategic importance. the peoples must not pay for the marble again and must organise their struggle on the basis of their own interests in a way free from inter-bourgeois rivalries, confrontations and rivalries between imperialist centres.
madam president, after gaining independence from great britain, kenya, like other former colonies in africa and asia, was swept up in a cycle of political, economic and social upheaval. the colonialists may have formally withdrawn, but their influence remained through the placement of minions in government positions, economic strangulation, exploitation of wealth-producing resources and the creation of conditions of economic and political dependence on the former colonial metropolises. to this we must add the problem of overpopulation, religious fanaticism, water shortages, interracial strife and the outbreak of deadly epidemics. i am not expecting the former european colonial countries to be overcome by a humanitarian crisis and to give up their former colonies entirely. but for the sake of europe, i suggest that they finally move towards policies that will adequately address the problems of illegal immigration, the risks of spreading infectious diseases in europe and the humanitarian crisis in third countries.
mr president, kenya has been portrayed in many quarters as a supposedly successful country. but this is a country where land grabbing is on the agenda. the people of kenya need access to health and education. the exploitation by multinationals continues while the public debt is constantly increasing. in this economic context, the political process is being carried out, characterized by the logic of the client state, by non-compliance with and respect for the principles of the rule of law and the protection and respect for civil liberties. now the situation in kenya has gotten out of hand with clashes between supporters of the president and supporters of the opposition leader, with police violence, with deaths, even with rapes of women. unfortunately, in the past year, kenya has missed the chance for a peaceful transition to democracy. the european union must help facilitate the normalisation of political life in kenya, but kenyans must realise that unless they are united in tackling their country's economic challenges, no outsider is going to give them the solution.
mr president, kenya, because of its geographical position and the stability of its state, is a country of strategic value for security and peace in the horn of africa region, because it affects all its neighbouring countries. it also ensures and guarantees the smooth running of trade and the transport of humanitarian aid from the european union to the countries of the horn of africa via the red sea. it also contributes to the fight against international terrorism, religious fanaticism, smuggling of migrants and the illicit trafficking of arms and drugs. if, due to destabilization, kenya is unable to carry out these activities the implications for the european union will be very large and significant. the european union must therefore support the stability of the country, engage with both the government and the opposition, try to contribute to its democratization and ensure that the interests of the european union as a whole are served, not just those of certain countries.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the control of the use of certain dangerous substances in the manufacture of certain dangerous products is a very important one. i think that this debate highlights all the issues that are really at stake because we have goods that are used for both political and military purposes. at the same time, the evolution in technology has now shown that there are a number of products that are used for surveillance, and these products are exploited by dictatorial regimes to restrict human rights, to punish and arrest, in many cases, activists, journalists and anyone who is actually opposed to these regimes. it is also important that the export of torture materials should be banned. i also think it is important that the import of minerals from war-torn africa is prohibited because there is a real cleansing of the population in order to allow others to grab the minerals. these minerals are then imported into the european union. all these prohibitions are very important to me.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. such materials are surveillance materials, encryption materials, electronic interception and deception systems, materials and products enhancing the potential for cyber attacks, as well as materials for the construction of weapons of mass destruction and means which can be used to carry out torture. the european union is founded on principles and values, and this reality imposes on it the obligation not to put economic profit above morality and human rights. it must carry out effective checks to ensure that these products do not fall into the hands of terrorists or into countries which violate the human rights of their citizens. finally, it must adopt strict legislation to punish those who violate these provisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in the course of globalisation the large multinationals of the european union and the united states have shifted their investments to countries mainly in asia. it's called "outsourcing". they invested there because they thought, and they did, that they would make a profit. they have made a profit because in these countries, first of all, the labour laws are not respected, trade unions are not allowed and there are starvation wages. at the same time, other obligations such as health and safety conditions are not respected in these countries. we've seen countless work accidents in india and pakistan and bangladesh. this is the reality that the west has been led to in order to make its corporations profitable. at the same time, there is social dumping against this process. environmental agreements are also not being respected. there are other countries where even prisoners work, such as china. so this is the trade process that is going on today because european companies are importing all these cheap products into the european union itself. the european union is also working with countries which do not respect human rights. we have the agreement between the european union and the countries of southern africa, where rights are not respected. however, they are allowed to export to europe commercial products, agricultural products, even feta - we will have south african feta in a moment - thus disrupting the agricultural production of the european union itself. it is not possible to proceed with these proceedings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. it is an important moment and that is why i would like to personally welcome the bulgarian prime minister to the european parliament: dobrė dossal ministra-presidentėle! several of the priorities of the bulgarian presidency are of particular importance to my political group on the european left: youth unemployment, the 'brain drain' we have to make into a 'brain game', the social economy and strengthening the social pillar, education, immigration issues. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. i am glad that president juncker has reiterated that the objective is the integration of the western balkans, but the bulgarian presidency is the ideal time to take steps in these matters. and to take steps, the western balkan states and the european union must also make progress through dialogue on respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression and information, the rights of national and social minorities, the fight against corruption, social inequalities, unemployment and poverty. in recent years, major cooperation initiatives have been undertaken within the balkans. the tsipras-borissov agreement on joint investment in infrastructure, the dialogue that is beginning today between the governments of athens and skopje on a solution to the chronic name problem - which i believe will lead to a solution that will be good for both greece and fyrom and for the western balkans and the european union - is the road that can turn the balkans from a powder keg of europe into a bridge of cooperation between the european union, the eastern mediterranean, the middle east. the bulgarian presidency over the next six months is an ideal opportunity to take positive steps from which everyone will benefit.
the future of the european union is directly linked to the need for profound changes in the structure of the euro area. in this context, the draconian stability pact must be abolished. the european central bank must also be transformed into a lender of last resort and the european system of central banks further decentralised. the changes in the euro area must include a provision for the restoration of national monetary sovereignty so that each national central bank can conduct its monetary policy in accordance with the needs of its state and up to the national central bank's percentage share in the ecb's capital. structural changes in emu must be complemented by increased transparency and accountability of the european central bank by strengthening the powers of the european parliament and national parliaments. the european union's budget must also be increased.
the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources could help to address the challenges of global warming. at the same time, however, the installation of renewable energy plants, and in particular wind farms, must be environmentally friendly. this is not the case for the installation of wind farms in south karelia, an area protected by the natura network: the commission has also proposed that the greek authorities should be given the possibility to extend the period of validity of the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid. the construction of new roads to transport wind turbines to the peaks of the ochi will disturb the ecological balance. the electromagnetic radiation emitted by pylons adjacent to residential areas poses a major health risk to residents. we have denounced in our speeches and in our questions the violation of european union legislation to protect the health of citizens and the environment. the commission has informed us that it has initiated the procedure for referring greece to the court of justice on this matter, and we await the practical results of this action. we're going down!
mr president, we are discussing energy efficiency at a time when the main problem throughout europe is energy poverty. energy poverty affects millions of unemployed and poor people. in greece the problem has reached its peak. more than 100,000 households are unable to pay their electricity bills. last year, 35,000 blackouts were experienced by poor households that, because of their weakness, were in debt to the p.e.u. at the same time, we have an increased value-added tax on the supply of electricity, which is a public utility. heating oil has gone through the roof since the troika imposed the excise tax increase. the result is that greece is thawing and our fellow citizens are burning everything they find, in fact, and the result is an increase in the ethyl haze. the situation in greece with energy poverty is now unacceptable.
the european union's governance, mr president, must respect the treaty itself. this means that the competences of the member states must be respected and the governance process of the energy union must also respect the principle of conferral of powers, which means that the institutions of the european union have as many powers as the treaty confers on them. but what we are seeing is an attempt to take away the power of the member states in this area. this is done indirectly by the commission, which wants to impose a prior approval of any international treaties that the member states sign. in essence, this is a usurpation of sovereign powers by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am completely against this procedure.
how many times must we discuss youth unemployment in this chamber without having succeeded in improving the situation in the slightest? the report itself admits that the austerity measures imposed by the european union on the various member states have had the direct effect of dramatically increasing youth unemployment. what the report does not admit is that the action taken by the union to reduce unemployment has had zero effect. the relative decline in unemployment in recent years is nothing more than flexible forms of employment and shiftwork, which have become the norm in most member states with all that this implies, i.e. temporary jobs paid at starvation wages and minimal benefits for workers. we must not forget that the commission, through the troika, forced greece to introduce, as part of the budgetary reform, a separate lower basic wage for young workers. and then we talk about protecting young people, when most of them leave the country to look for work abroad. our demand: stable jobs with decent pay, full insurance coverage and protection of workers' rights.
the growth of youth unemployment, the acceleration of its general increase, worries you. not to solve the problem: you neither want nor can, but to overcome the indignation of millions of young people, their rejection in your system, but also blackmailed by unemployment to hand them over as slaves to capital, in whatever job, industry, or country needs them. you call it labour mobility, when it's immigration and uprooting that's eating greece too. the free subsidized temporary, flexible, low-paid employment provided by european programmes benefits only the enterprises. it turns young people into lifelong apprentices, underpaid, under-paid, more or less unemployed. even the training you recruit into it. the investments you are referring to as a solution require this. cheap staff, blackmailed by unemployment and insecurity. this is your vision of the future of work, the european social pillar! it's a nightmare and a savagery. capitalism has nothing but that to offer. the young must fight to overthrow it, for prospects and a future.
the youth employment initiative, this apprenticeship and job creation initiative, is an excellent effort and a powerful tool to combat youth unemployment, especially in countries like greece. it is a proof of where europe is looking. but there was also an unpleasant surprise, which we found especially in greece, that instead of being used to open up opportunities with the prospect of subsequent vocational rehabilitation, the programme appeared to be applied mainly in the public sector, that is to say, in jobs that have no hope or prospect of continuing employment. in reply to the commission, it was found that there is no information on where our young people are studying, so there is no information on the quality of jobs, nor on the number of participants in the private or public sector. we hope that the amount provided, especially in countries with high unemployment rates and especially for young people, will increase, but it is important that this programme be extended and made more ambitious and targeted, that is to say, with a better match between supply, demand and skills so that our young people feel that by staying in europe their future is in good hands.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but as i have said many times in this chamber, there are limited resources and therefore the first thing we have to look at is increasing resources. the second is to explain the data because there is a decline in youth unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public. the next issue to be dealt with is the countries of the european south: greece, italy, spain. in greece, 500,000 young people have left and gone to other countries of the european union. all young people in employment receive starvation wages of up to 450 euros. many of them go unpaid. there is also little concrete information on how this initiative has progressed in greece. finally, the financing by member states is limited because otherwise the deficit increases.
mr timmermans and mrs katainen, the european plastics strategy is indeed an interesting initiative, combining environmental protection with recycling potential and, at the same time, integrating the plastics industry into the circular economy. it also protects fisheries and tourism, which are particularly important for greece, which has thousands of islands, as you know, and which require even cleaner coasts and we want cleaner seas. in greece the procedure has already begun and from the beginning of the year eur 0.03 per plastic bag plus 24% vat will be charged. the state is trying to "make a fly out of a bee", as we say. this amount shall be eur 0,09 as from 1 january 2019. but our strategy must have the objective of supporting businesses to enable them to move to the circular economy, and this concerns at least 200 small and mediumsized enterprises in greece and 12,000 employees.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the increase in the number of couples of different nationalities makes it necessary to improve and clarify the european union's legislation on jurisdiction, the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial and parental custody cases, and international child abduction. the legal uncertainty and unnecessary delays in relevant cases that negatively affect the families involved must be ended. emphasis must be placed on protecting the interests of children, including refugees. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we also need to concentrate jurisdiction for international child abductions in specialised courts and to rationalize the reasons for any refusal to enforce relevant foreign decisions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
i have listened to this debate with great interest. during my time as minister of justice in the czech republic, i dealt with several examples of problems with international child abduction, where it was clearly shown in practice how brussels does not work, what gaps it has, and i am very pleased that the problems we have solved in practice - delays in proceedings, unclear positions of individual courts - are solved in this amendment, in this revision. i want to thank the rapporteur because i really feel that this amendment can have a great impact in practice and it is good that we are making arrangements there for things like special courts, such as time limits for judicial decisions, such as special arrangements for the interrogation of a child, which should lead to the best interests of the child being taken into account in every case. so as someone who has had practical experience of this, i thank the commission, i thank the rapporteur, and i think that this legislation can be of great practical help.
madam president, i consider the recasting of council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility to be of particular importance. the committee on petitions had received a great many cases involving both parental custody and kidnapping. we have had many complaints about the way the special welfare service in germany, the famous jugendamt, works, and i think it is very important that mr gericke has spoken, and i would like to congratulate him for actually asking his country to make changes in this area. it is obvious that the regulation is of great importance because it focuses on the best interests of the child. i think it is particularly important that the child himself be heard in order to obtain a specific judicial decision. it is also very important that specialised courts be set up to deal with cases of child abduction. these are the focal points and i think we are moving in the right direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the child is not subject to any discrimination, and that the child is not subject to any discrimination. it is also necessary to maintain family law under the full jurisdiction and responsibility of the member states, including the conditional possibility of direct recognition of judgments. however, on emotionally charged and factual issues, attempts are made to disturb the legal order and reason. particular care is required in applying the western legal approach to illegal immigrants and persons whose habitual residence cannot be ascertained and who refuse to integrate socially and culturally and have different moral and humanitarian values. in accordance with the treaties, we must limit ourselves to supporting the development of appropriate infrastructures and channels of communication between member states, without interfering in the internal affairs of the family and with due regard for the best interests of the child.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the marrakesh treaty was adopted in june 2013. it is part of an international treaty on intellectual property rights. it has a strong humanitarian and social dimension, since it is a series of mandatory exceptions in favour of the blind, in favour of people with visual impairments, in order to be able to read printed works. but it took a lot of fighting. we had a lot of discussions in the appeals committee. there has been a lot of pressure from the european parliament. it took an opinion of the court of justice of the european union in february 2017 to finally pave the way for the ratification of this treaty, which is indeed a major step forward for the european union itself, as it now supports people with disabilities and especially those with visual impairments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken the necessary measures to combat it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. they not only fuel the sex industry, but also agriculture, animal husbandry, construction, tourism, care. europe cannot be proud of the development associated with this modern slave trade! does the commission check whether the directives on trafficking in human beings and on seasonal workers are being applied, or is it only concerned with the budgetary rules? because this problem has to be solved, we need: - intelligent labour controls, as i also stressed in my report on domestic workers, - legal and transparent procedures for migrant labour and, most importantly, - safeguarding labour rights so that we can really move into the 21st century. it's the only way to break the fear!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens and mutagens. the evidence suggests that very specific measures need to be taken. it was found that 76% of the recorded victims were women, while 15% were children. they come from romania, bulgaria, the netherlands, hungary and poland. it is a given that this holding, in particular the working holding, is concentrated in the agricultural sector. member states should therefore proceed with the effective implementation of directive 2011/36/eu, slave traders should be punished and traffickers prosecuted. at the same time, there must be cooperation between states to tackle this cross-border trafficking in human beings.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. this situation is a stigma on our humanity and our culture. the european union must, in cooperation with the member states and other countries, take decisive action to limit this unacceptable situation initially and to eliminate it in the end. it is not enough for the european union to invoke articles 5 and 31 of the charter of fundamental rights, which prohibit slavery and forced labour and which recognise the right of workers to fair wages and decent working conditions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. finally, strict legislation must be introduced to impose draconian penalties on those who act in this ruthless and unacceptable way.
in writing. the trafficking and smuggling of women and young girls for sexual exploitation and forced labour is a fact of life and has taken on alarming proportions in recent years, becoming the second most lucrative illegal activity in the world after drug trafficking. in a europe of values and the absolute protection of fundamental rights, it is an insult to our societies that the vast majority of recorded victims today unfortunately come from eu member states. the european continent is currently experiencing a new upsurge in this heinous crime, which wounds the freedom and dignity of millions of women and girls, causing irreparable damage for a lifetime. let us just consider that, many times, the attempt to free themselves from this compulsion is paid for by the young women with their own lives. although european legislation to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings is in place, harmonisation among member states is still lacking in terms of establishing effective legal protection mechanisms, criminalising offenders and protecting victims. it is our duty to join forces and work together more effectively across borders, because trafficking in women and girls is non-discriminatory and affects us all.
mr president, 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage must, among other things, be dedicated to the repatriation of stolen cultural goods. i shall not refer today, mr avramopoulos, to the archaeological treasures looted by the nazis during the german occupation of greece in 1941-1944, a matter on which i have repeatedly informed the house. i would like to focus, mr avramopoulos, on the occasion of the bulgarian presidency, on the question of the stolen treasures of macedonia, the so-called 'elgin treasures' of macedonia. in the spring of 1917, the then bulgarian occupation troops attacked the ecosiphenisis monastery and the timii prodromos monastery, which they plundered, seizing ecclesiastical texts, manuscripts and historical books, which are now in sofia, in the center for slav-byzantine studies ivan dujev and in the bulgarian historical museum. i believe that this is a historic opportunity for bulgaria to proceed immediately with the return of the hellenic republic to macedonia. i would say that today to mr borissov, who has committed the folly of calling skopje 'macedonia'. but i regret that i did not receive the speech.
in writing. the declaration of 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage is an ideal opportunity to claim more resources for culture. resources to promote our monuments, archaeological sites and museums. the support of our cultural identity is a duty to our history and our land, but also a legacy to our children and young people. at the same time, it should be emphasised that by strengthening the sectors and businesses linked to culture, new jobs and business opportunities can be created which, in conjunction with sectors such as tourism and agriculture, but also with the modernisation of infrastructure and digital media, can make a decisive contribution to our economy.
the economic crisis, which has been plaguing europe for many years, and greece in particular, has seriously affected the normal exercise of many professions. a large number of them have been abandoned, some others are on the verge of disappearing, many workers have lost their jobs and especially young scientists, when they finally manage to find a job, it is usually not related to the subject of their science. this is a situation that must be addressed and resolved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the young people of europe are able to work in the professions, particularly in the professions protected by law, and to acquire experience and skills, all of which should be the responsibility and responsibility of each state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. each member state will then, in cooperation with the other member states and the european union, develop a framework which can then be applied in all the countries of europe.
i'm going to go with what mr. zdechowski said. we in this category in the spirit of a short discussion of the current situation of human rights violations in the world should not address all the problems that nigeria has. in the debate, colleagues have mentioned the problems of this vast, rich country, the poverty of the people, the problems between the north and the south, boko haram, which has killed 20,000 people, the conflicts between herders and farmers, but we are here today to debate the issue of suppression of rights and even the murder of christians in this country. i'd like to see this issue really come out in the open. we are reacting to an incident that took place in december, a few weeks ago, when dozens of christians were murdered after returning from a service. this is a theme that should be emphasized here. we should especially call on the nigerian government today to do everything possible to enable its citizens to practice their religions freely, whether christian or muslim, and to protect this right of freedom of religion.
madam president, nigeria is a populous country with tremendous population growth. from 33 million in 1950, the population has grown to 190 million today. it is a strong economic country with rich productive sectors. it has oil, it has gas. and yet, we have now reached the point where oil is being imported into nigeria. in addition, there is a conflict between farmers and nomads at the moment, because, in essence, there is an attempt to take over the land. so these conflicts are also accompanied by religious conflicts. there is a persecution of the 30 million christians of northern nigeria. there is the terrorist activity of the boko haram organization, which, however, has the capacity to carry out terrorist activity today because the very corruption of the regime is the 'fertilizer' for its development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the congo is a rich country with rich productive resources, with mineral wealth. but unfortunately the congolese themselves do not benefit from this rich country. and that's because there's over-exploitation by the various multinationals. the whole problem at the political level is created because kabila has been in power for 17 years, he refuses to hold elections - we have repeatedly discussed the congo issue here. he was allegedly committed to holding elections in late december 2017. eventually, they will be in 2018, if they ever are. that's how conflicts are caused, we have too many deaths. what is now certain is that the congolese leadership must be confronted, sanctions must be imposed, the assets of kabila and his entourage must be frozen, and sanctions must also be imposed against the european multinationals that are playing the game there and even exploiting child labour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr draghi, we will not criticise you for the quantitative easing programme, but because you are not doing enough to prepare the euro area and the european union for the next crisis and the next recession. we criticize you because we need to move faster and more intensely from a dogmatic unilateralism to austerity to sustainable development policies; because accountability and its reinforcement must be ensured not only in words but also in deeds. we call on the european central bank to accept the recommendations of the european ombudsman to strengthen both transparency and democratic accountability. you should withdraw from the group of thirty. we all know that the economy of the european union and the eurozone is doing somewhat better these days, but this cannot hide the deficits and structural problems of the eurozone: imperfect economic union, imperfect banking union, lack of transparency and democratic accountability, unilateralism in austerity. the european deposit guarantee scheme and harmonization policies must be put into effect immediately to close the loopholes through which the large multinationals' widespread tax evasion and vat fraud and theft systems pass, through which both the european union and the member states lose huge sums at the expense of honest taxpayers. that's what we expect from you.
mr president, mr draghi, the responsibilities of the european central bank, as a member of the troika, in turning greece into a vast social graveyard are enormous. this has even been agreed by mr dijsselbloem, who said that the memoranda saved the foreign banks and not greece. but the ecb is continuing 'business as usual' with regard to red loans, demanding the activation of electronic auctions in order for the 'crows' to seize the homes of the greeks. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections, but that the bank of greece has provided information on the amount of the capital injections, which is not available. finally, mr draghi, we would once again point out that the ecb must finally leave the troika in order to put an end to the conflict of interest that exists, since the ecb 'wears four hats': the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, my group has tabled two amendments to the report and i ask you to support them. the first amendment seeks to condemn the speculative behaviour of the european central bank in the case of greek bonds excluded from the haircut procedure in 2012, which brought profits of almost eur 6.2 billion to the eurosystem, as mr draghi has admitted in a related question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. we want to call on the eurosystem to return these gains unconditionally to greece and, otherwise, for the greek government to default on these bonds, so that the austerity measures agreed by the greek government for the next 36 years, including the reduction of the tax-free rate and the pension cuts, can be reversed. the second amendment is to express our disapproval of the fact that the efforts to reduce red loans promoted by the european central bank and the member states have in many cases resulted in the violation of the fundamental right to housing, with the result that thousands of low-income households have lost or are living in fear of losing their homes due to bank debts.
mr president, the first article of the report we are discussing today is also the most important. the european parliament attaches great importance to ensuring that the independence of the european central bank is not called into question under any circumstances. at the same time, however, this body not only influences but also largely determines the lives of european citizens. when were the citizens asked? when did they agree to give such a large amount of power to an independent agency? when was this power taken away from the states and what is the democratic legitimacy of this body? the so-called control by the european parliament is meaningless because it is carried out after the holidays and, moreover, is superficial and without substance. why has the president of the european central bank not been removed from office after his characteristic failure to manage the crisis? what private company would have kept its ceo in his position if he couldn't handle a crisis ten years ago? we call for the return of these powers to the national central banks and for control of them by the member states as a first step towards the restoration of national sovereignty and independence.
mr president, it is once again proved that the german car industry is a state within a state. we saw it in the dieselgate case, and we see it in this case, because we have emissions tests on humans. 25 of our fellow humans have been exposed to nitrous oxide. these are illegal acts. this is a violation of human rights. this is immoral behavior. beyond that, we have similar tests on animals, primarily monkeys. it is therefore clear that the german car industry must be brought to an end. we must have controls. there must be severe punishment and, of course, provision for compensation for our fellow men who participated in these experiments.
mr president, it is a sad reminder of the past that crimes have been committed in the name of science. but when such crimes are committed for financial gain, they become abhorrent and must be punished severely and exemplary. we have heard from the media that a german car company has been experimenting on humans and an american company on monkeys to see what effect the inhalation of car fuel has on human health. it is an unacceptable and immoral act which violates human rights and makes no sense, because we know very well what the levels of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides are which are harmful to human health. the member states must therefore cooperate with the european union in order to introduce appropriate legislation and sanctions for these industries. but i wonder: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the construction of the railway network in the community.
mr president, commissioner bieńkowska, it is not enough for the commission to say that it is shocked. the question is, how long will the commission be so lenient in its treatment of the scandals, immorality and fraud on the part of the motor industry? why didn't the european mechanisms find what the journalists found? where are the strict sanctions, financial and legal, against those who violate every notion of morality and legality? some have confused the free market with fraud, immorality and the turning of humans into laboratory animals. where is the implementation of those strong european policies that will put rules and barriers to these scandals? the dieselgate i scandal and the dieselgate ii scandal that we're living through now? and why are you content with the german government's investigation? shouldn't the commission be investigating too? should we not have common european rules? we want action at last; not just condolences.
mr president, the contribution of cars to total air pollution is 60% for carbon monoxide, 30% for nitrogen oxides, 50% for hydrocarbons and 3.5% for sulphur dioxide. given that exhaust gases are emitted at the height of human breathing, cars rank among the biggest polluters of urban air, with a share of 80 to 99%. in order to meet the commission's requirements for the emission standards to be met by new vehicles, car manufacturers do not hesitate to present misleading information, as was the case with the tampered software in the volkswagen scandal in september 2015. but they don't stop there. in the new scandal that has broken out in the german automobile industry, volkswagen, daimler and bmw, wanting to prove that engines are not dangerous, have used not only monkeys but also humans in their experiments to see whether diesel exhaust gases are harmful to primate mammals. it's not enough that volkswagen and the institute for respiratory research apologized after this incredible revelation. we demand exemplary punishment for all involved in this scandal.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. i am particularly pleased that, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i see that our priorities in the committee have been safeguarded and more. all citizens of the european union will now have access to online offers of products and services from other countries without being redirected to other websites and paying different prices for the same product. i would like to congratulate you, mr vice-president, for remaining ambitious so that we can now have practical access to better prices and an end to discrimination between european citizens themselves, which was not easy. it was sometimes easier to export to china than to overcome the barriers to the european union market. the compulsory acceptance of credit cards will facilitate transactions on the internet, including in countries with restrictions on the movement of capital. the removal of these barriers is a decisive step for the benefit of citizens and we are also creating new opportunities for businesses to develop their activities and promote their quality products within europe. at the same time, it is ensured that in two years' time, during the review of the regulation, it will be extended to other sectors for other products and services at low prices and of the best possible quality. this creates a stronger union in many areas.
the single market is a major achievement of the european union itself and, of course, within the single market there can be no discrimination of any kind. it is therefore logical that the digital single market should work in the same way. the fact that the internet is now used to buy services or products does not justify discrimination against consumers. there shall be no discrimination on grounds of the nationality of the consumer or on grounds of the place where he resides or the place where he is domiciled. the decisions we are taking and the regulation which now abolishes all such discrimination are therefore an important step forward at european union level. but we must also stop discriminating against music content and books. these are badly out of order.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the vat system is not subject to fraudulent practices. at the same time, the main problem in the european union is the tax dumping that is practiced, as there are countries with very low and others with very high vat. in greece, mr dombrovskis, vat is increased because the troika has imposed it. the last example is the imposition of an increased vat on the aegean islands, where there is competition from turkey with a very low vat rate. the people of the aegean islands are protesting, the small and mediumsized businesses are protesting, and you have to see this. we cannot have the vat increase in the aegean islands: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the european union is trying to meet the paris commitments on environmental protection and has mainly entrusted this to a carbon trading system, the ets, which is essentially based on the market itself. i would say that it is not an efficient system and that it often leads to speculation while creating certain unlikely situations. to explain what i mean, bulgaria and poland have been given an exemption from the purchase of emission allowances, while greece has not, with the result that the greek ppp is losing eur 400 million a year. at the same time, in the area around greece, industries in turkey, bulgaria, skopje, albania are operating as they are and are not bound by any restrictions. the system is therefore absurd and an exception should have been made for greece to allow the ppp to operate as its bulgarian counterpart does, with an exception. thank you very much.
madam president, four years later, we have still not responded to the just demands of the european citizens on the refugee/migration problem which has preoccupied us in so many meetings. this is a human rights issue of paramount importance, since hundreds of thousands of people are coming to europe in search of a decent way of life. in my country, greece, the flows continue mainly from the turkish coast to the islands of the northeast aegean. the pressures on the islands are enormous. asylum services are unable to cope with the number of applications and the islanders, despite their proven hospitality, are in a difficult position. the dublin review plan is being delayed, while certain countries refuse to show solidarity for the proportionate reception of refugees. we have not managed to deal effectively with this problem which is shaking our cohesion. we must all, without exception, take up our responsibilities immediately, with respect for european ideals and human life, otherwise any discussion of the future of europe will be based on its fundamental values.
yesterday's grand rally in athens for skopje sends a decisive message to the ends of the earth that macedonia is one and greek. it sends a decisive message that the greek people will not tolerate the usurpation of the name of our macedonia and our history by skopje. the mass rallies in athens and thessaloniki have alarmed the centers of power in the us, the european union, nato and skopje. the skopjes must stop using the name of our macedonia, must abandon their redemptive claims against greece and must stop sucking the candy of the so-called macedonian nationality. our movement, greece - the other way, is opposed to any use of the term macedonia by skopje, as well as any geographical designation that refers to and uses the word macedonia in the name of skopje. we demand a referendum on skopje and we are opposed to skopje's membership of the european union and nato.
mr president, mr prime minister, welcome back to the european parliament. i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the example of greece is typical, which the european union has impoverished for eight consecutive years with the memorandum. how can there be progress in europe when the european union forces states to impoverish their citizens? how can there be progress in europe if we cannot guard our national borders, which are supposedly guarded by the european border and coast guard, and cannot deal with the problem of illegal immigration? how can there be progress in europe when the schengen treaty has been effectively abolished? finally, how can there be progress in europe if we want to accept turkey, which, apart from the genocide of the armenians mentioned, is responsible for the genocide of the greeks of the black sea and asia minor and at the moment does not recognise cyprus? how can europe progress with all this?
mr president, mr prime minister of croatia, may i remind you that skopje is recognised by the european union as a 'fyrom' and not as 'macedonia', as you wrongly called it a moment ago. so i urge you to make amends, because good accounts make good friends. the european union must emphasize the need to abandon neoliberalism, austerity and forced fiscal adjustment. the social europe must be built, guaranteeing the equitable distribution of the wealth produced and social justice. in the institutional field, the union must respect the national sovereignty of its member states and their national identities. it should be based on and act in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union.
mr president, i too would like to point out a mistake made by my friend andrej plenković. it is a political mistake, in the sense that the more we refer to the state which is greece's northern neighbour as 'macedonia' and the more we give them the false impression that they are the descendants of alexander the great and that they are macedonians, so that we greeks must collectively have a problem of national conscience, the further we remove the prospect of their joining the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, at a rally held last sunday in athens, where i was present, hundreds of thousands of greeks expressed their will to stop the presentation of our northern neighbour with the name 'macedonia'. that is why i want my friend andrej plenković to make the necessary correction.
madam president, today we voted on the new framework for european trade in pollutants for the period after 2021. the commission has also decided to set up a modernisation fund to be financed by the sale of 2.5% of the total rights. unfortunately, in the original proposal of the european commission, greece, despite the economic crisis and the fact that it has lost more than 25% of its gdp, could not benefit from european funding totalling more than one billion. the european parliament, after my amendment, corrected this injustice and had asked for the change of the base year for the fund, from 2013 to 2014, so that greece could participate. the fund could finance projects such as the interconnection of mainland greece with the aegean islands and crete, renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly technologies. but unfortunately, by creating the special mechanism, as it was decided, we will get half the money as a country and here we are not a full member. this development is a burden for the greek government, but above all it is a burden for the rigidity of other member states which do not respect the economic situation of greece.
madam president, the 2016 annual report on the european central bank is - in substance - a blow to mr draghi and to the ecb's activity as a whole. first of all, as we said in our speech yesterday, the european central bank must return the profits on greek government bonds, which it bought at a 40% discount and pays 100% of them. bonds excluded from the psi and the procedure followed, whereas insurance fund bonds were cut. therefore, all the profits from the smps and enfas, all the profits of the european central bank and the eurosystem should be returned to greece in order to support employment, because the country is currently facing huge unemployment problems due to the memorandum policy of the troika and mr draghi.
madam president, waris dirie, with her famous autobiography 'the flower of the desert' in 1997, broke the silence on the barbaric practice of clitoridectomy. twenty-one years have passed since then, the western world has become aware, the un has carried out persistent information campaigns, but the custom - if one can call it that - has not been eradicated. the tradition survives in 28 african countries, in countries of the middle east and asia, mainly in yemen, iraqi kurdistan and indonesia. but it is spreading from african countries to areas where it has not been done before, such as iraq. girls, ignorant, helpless and terrified, cannot resist the razor, the knife, the piece of glass or whatever the instrument of torture is. from infancy to the age of fifteen they undergo the operation, under miserable conditions, under the pressure of their entire community and especially the family. unfortunately, today, in european countries where there are large immigrant communities, clitoridectomies are still performed, even by doctors. the world health organization estimates that 150 million women worldwide have undergone clitoridectomy, and that the number is increasing by 2 million each year.
madam president, on the occasion of the international day against female genital mutilation, the union must send a strong message of zero tolerance towards those who impose such practices. at present, 140 million women and girls worldwide are subject to this form of gender-based violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. furthermore, it needs to protect the victims. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. consequently, member states must ratify and implement the istanbul convention on combating gender-based violence. further measures are required from the union and the european commission, but these measures must not be used as an excuse or even as an incentive to encourage illegal immigration of women to the european union.
mr president, one of the main mistakes of the european union's foreign policy over many years has been its identification with the policy of the united states. this often leads to decisions against its own interests. this is precisely what has happened with the decision to speed up the accession procedures of the western balkan countries to the european union. this policy is fraught with risks because, with the exception of serbia, which has made considerable progress, the other countries are far from meeting the copenhagen criteria. on the other hand, the united states is pressing for the rapid integration of skopje into nato, in order to avoid possible russian intervention, and is pressing everyone in that direction. the european union has a duty to help the people of macedonia, and to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia, to help the people of macedonia. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. if to these issues are added the problems of illegal immigrants and the internal problems of the european union, the risk of destabilising the european union becomes significant. the european union must not be forced into the western balkans.
mr president, how did the present mosaic of state institutions in the western balkans come about? the european union and nato bombed yugoslavia and redrawn the borders with the blood of the people. the european union today has the audacity to invoke prosperity and peace in order to expand into the balkans. they divide and bleed the people by fomenting unprecedented and dangerous redemptionism. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. they are urged to join skopje, albania and serbia and to strengthen their influence against russia and china by controlling energy and transport routes and markets. this is the main issue that is being covered up and added to by both the syriza/anel government in greece, again doing dirty work to upgrade greek capital, and those who, exploiting popular concerns, are confined to the nominative, with rallies branded by nationalist and fascist forces, downplaying the risks of redemptionism, as well as the dangerous role of nato and the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament.
mr president, mrs mogherini and mr hahn, my country, greece, and the greek government are strong supporters of the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. we support a road map for democratic change and reform so that in the next decade the 27 member states will become 33. this requires good neighbourly relations, border stability, peaceful coexistence, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, democracy, co-development and investment. the six member states must do their part, but the european commission must also help in practice and not in words, because this has been a strategy since thessaloniki in 2003 and has been forgotten for 15 years. it is precisely this opportunity that the tsipras governments and the new government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are seeking to exploit to resolve a longstanding name dispute which is an obstacle to the peaceful co-development of all the balkan peoples. i am glad that the commission and almost the whole of the european parliament, including the european people's party and the socialist party, support this effort and not unprecedented populism and nationalism which are damaging to the interests of both the balkan peoples and the european perspective. it's time to get down to business. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is "blue card". mr president, mr vice-president, mr papadimoulis, i wanted to ask you, in the light of your report, whether or not you think it is important, in relation to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to eliminate the redemptive provisions in the constitution and the formalities once and for all. i say this because you heard this morning from commission president juncker that a necessary condition for the normalization of relations between the two states is the resolution of bilateral differences.
answer "blue card". it goes without saying that a solution that benefits both greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must ensure the stability of borders, a commonly accepted compound name - erga omnes - for all and the abandonment of all redemptionism, whether it exists in constitutions or not. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with you, of course.
mr president, the grand rallies in athens and thessaloniki sent a message with many addressees, even in this very room. they sent the message that the greek people will not tolerate the plunder of our macedonia's name, nor of our history, by skopje. they sent the message that they do not tolerate any use of the word macedonia for the name of skopje, nor any compound name with geographical or other identification that uses the term macedonia. they sent the message that skopje must renounce all irredentism towards greece and amend its constitution. but the skopje leadership insists on its uncompromising stance. this is a position which is even reinforced by you, mr hahn, since in a recent interview with a german magazine you referred to skopje as 'macedonia', even though the european union recognises skopje as 'fyrom'. i would therefore ask you, mr hahn, to recall here, as i asked the croatian prime minister this morning, who also called skopje here 'macedonia' instead of 'fyrom'.
mr president, the situation in the western balkans is characterised by enormous economic hardship, the growth of organised crime, corruption, nationalism, irredentism, the absence of the rule of law and the oppression of minorities. the european union and nato have been at the forefront of the breakup of yugoslavia, and these problems have been largely created and certainly exacerbated. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the greek people, because of the economic crisis and memoranda, are being impoverished and the public wealth of the country is being sold off. countries such as romania and bulgaria continue to have huge economic problems, with extreme poverty and unemployment, despite their accession to the european union. is there a european policy today for the balkans, or is what we are hearing a policy of opportunistic use of the balkans with the aim of integrating the region into games of economic and geopolitical influence, with nato and its continuing enlargement and the selfish initiative of germany with the berlin process as its protagonists? the balkan countries and their peoples need agreements of friendship, equal cooperation and shared development, free from redemptionism and competition and free from foreign interference.
mr president, commissioner, you are presenting an enlargement strategy without any substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are tired of reading reports which embellish reality and act as a brake on the progress of these countries. the worst example is fyrom. your policy to date has perpetuated and fueled nationalism and the falsification of history, with visible results. it is an oxymoron to say that in order to join, open issues must be resolved, when you are again ready to recommend the opening of accession negotiations before the przno reforms have even been implemented. at the same time, at the current critical juncture in the negotiations on the nomenclature, you yourself use the term "macedonia" in the recent spiegel interview, which you did not deny, undermining any efforts and continuing to give the wrong message to the government of skopje. the greek people have expressed their concerns about these issues and i would recommend to you, commissioner, that you do not continue to ignore them.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. the aim must be to enlarge the european union, but with a common policy at all levels. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the enlargement countries must resolve their differences. serbia and montenegro have made significant progress and are expected to join in 2025. albania and fyrom have a lot to do, especially with regard to the rule of law. bosnia and herzegovina has a long way to go. you will ask me, of course, and it is reasonable: why have you greeks, for 26 years, not solved the problem with skopje? is it national caprice, vanity or fearlessness? i'm not sure. the answer is that greece never left the negotiating table. greece has proposed that fyrom be admitted to nato under a name for all uses, erga omnes; others have left. but in no case can it accept redemptive and aggressive views, with unhistorical maps claiming half of greek territory, redemptive references to the constitution and falsification of history - such as that of the third communist international and what tito did in 1945. thanks to titus' aggressive descent into the aegean, the nation was called macedonian and its language - a peculiar bulgarian - was called macedonian. we are here to discuss with skopje the solution of the problem without redemptive tendencies.
mr president, the accession of the western balkans, which in the past have been the scene of bloody conflicts, is a historic window of opportunity for peace and prosperity in the wider region. as the shadow rapporteur on the accession of montenegro, i would like to express my satisfaction at the progress made in institutional reforms. i believe that before 2025 we will be able to welcome montenegro as the 28th member of the union. i would like to make a special reference to fyrom and the need to find a fair solution to the nomenclature, one that is respected by both peoples. a solution without redemptionism at the expense of greece. the european union has a duty to ensure that the people of macedonia are not forced to accept the new political and economic structures which have been created by the new political and economic structures. the copenhagen criteria and good neighbourly relations are the demands of our common values against the old demons of nationalism and intolerance which some, whether for geopolitical reasons or to serve their own internal political interests, are trying to reawaken.
the european commission's strategy for enlargement in the western balkans is, in my view, correct in theory. in practice, however, it may lead to adventures similar to those seen in connection with enlargement to turkey. the chances of success can be increased, in my view, by doing the following: first, we must abandon the over-ambitious goals for the accession of the western balkan countries by 2025 and adopt a more realistic timetable, because usually after great optimism comes great pessimism; secondly, there must be a serious increase in the european union's own resources to secure money for the western balkans and additional resources for the less developed member states, otherwise the union will be transformed into a kind of economic un, with huge differences in development and a great deal of misunderstanding; thirdly, we must follow the line of french president macron and go for a special relationship with turkey, because the combination of enlargement to the western balkans and enlargement to turkey can make the european union repulsive to the peoples of many member states and we must have a continuation of the logic of brexit. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union must be able to take action to help the countries of the western balkans to become more european, and not to balkanize the european union.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. however, fyrom, with its capital in skopje, has for decades been inciting redemptive aspirations and territorial claims against greek macedonia. at the same time, this state is trying to usurp the greek cultural heritage by making unprecedented claims of continuity with the ancient macedonia of alexander the great, with which the slavonic-speaking residents of skopje today have no connection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. it must be made clear to the government of skopje that this is completely incompatible with any consideration of joining the union.
mr president, the admission of new members must be in accordance with the treaties and with common sense. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but regardless of the criteria, it is foolish to trust a country, and especially its government, when it steals the name, language, history and culture of another state and has a redemptive intent against my country, greece. and i ask: why are berlin, brussels and america pressuring greece to tolerate the lie of the name and not pressuring skopje to accept the truth; that they are slavs and not, of course, macedonians? the deafening gathering of the greek people, and not only the greek people in thessaloniki and athens, but also the greeks all over the world, is a statement to the greek politicians and to the european partners that we do not negotiate with usurpers.
mr president, i am optimistic about the commission's attitude to the question of the accession of the western balkan countries to the union. it is a long-standing proposal to include five states and one province, but it ignores the reality as usual. bosnia-herzegovina is nothing but an artificial state created by the nato raids and it is only thanks to the continuing support of german interests that it is still in existence. serbia will soon meet the criteria for membership, although i would advise the serbs to avoid it; neither will montenegro. the commission is well aware that the european union has a duty to respect the rights of the citizens of kosovo, and that it is not in the interests of the serbian people to impose sanctions on kosovo. albania, on the other hand, with its continuing - almost official - expansionist aspirations and longstanding oppression of the greek minority in northern epirus, must never join the union. the european union is also calling on the council to take action to ensure that the accession of the republic of macedonia to the european union is not delayed. recently, the greek people, in two giant rallies, made it clear that there is no negotiating with skopje and the only acceptable solution will be the adoption of a name without the term "macedonia" or its derivative.
mr. chairman, i have listened very carefully to this whole debate and i must say that i am relatively skeptical of the democratic development of this country. mugabe's departure in november is certainly welcome news, but the incumbent prime minister has been talking about reforms for a while, and elections have not been called yet. i therefore welcome what the high commissioner said, that the european union should be striving to the utmost. to help free elections not only by sending an observation mission, but we should try to interfere in the process of preparing for elections. help ensure that these elections are at least somewhat free and democratic if possible. i really have to say that i'm not optimistic yet, and if we manage to organize some elections that are free, that will be wonderful, but then the process of reforms begins, which we should also stand by and support.
mr president, the situation in zimbabwe, despite the removal of mugabe, remains critical. the new leadership is moving forward with the further militarization of the country's political system. the political system, instead of being based on the citizens themselves and on democratic structures, continues to be based on the military. in the field of economics, austerity is now on the agenda. the minister of finance is forcing a fiscal adjustment, with the dismissal of three thousand employees. it also allows multinational energy companies to avoid paying taxes for five years. it is clear that significant changes are needed in zimbabwe. the democratic structures need to be strengthened. we need democratic and free elections so that the citizens themselves can decide on the development of their country and have the opportunity to exploit the wealth-producing resources of their country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that he is a bigoted, bigoted criminal who despises all sense of justice and reason; a pariah of the international order. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. those who have no moral values apparently have no qualms about negotiating with an unreliable and unpredictable tyrant. but facts are not falsified. there is no such thing as a westernized turkey. turkey has no relevance to the union and does not belong to europe geographically, ethnically, culturally, historically, politically or institutionally. the evidence is the repeated and systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the disregard for the rules of international law and the decisions of the un and other international organizations. the imposition of an islamic terrorism and the persecution of any political opponent or dissident, including journalists, judges, military, teachers and even doctors.
madam president, in four years in this parliament i have been involved in countless debates on the behaviour of the turkish regime, which systematically and increasingly blatantly violates every concept of human rights inside turkey and every concept of international law abroad. the deadly invasion of syria, with mass killings of kurds by the turkish armed forces, is only the latest episode in the series. it is becoming tiresome to hear all the wings of the european parliament condemning the criminal activities of the erdogan regime - and sometimes the other institutions of the european union doing the same - and in practice doing nothing to stop them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. it is the language of economic and political sanctions.
madam president, the situation in turkey is absolutely alarming. erdogan is determined to continue the persecution of politicians, judges, journalists and ordinary citizens. he's extending the state of emergency to expand his power. anyone who criticizes him is an enemy of the state. it is forming an extreme nationalist alliance, even questioning the treaty of lausanne. lately, islamists and kemalists have been competing for the most aggressive rhetoric against neighboring states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european asylum system for turkish nationals, which would allow them to return to their country of origin. finally, with the tolerance of the international community, it invades syria and attacks the kurds. in fact, in afrin, he's fighting the very people who defeated the islamic state. after seven years of bloody civil war and as the conflict was beginning to de-escalate, this turkish invasion is leading to a new humanitarian crisis. we must condemn in the strongest terms today the behaviour of mr erdogan.
madam president, we are again in the same play, with turkey attacking kurds, imprisoning thousands of dissidents, supporting the slave trade and flooding the aegean islands with thousands of illegal immigrants. erdogan is threatening greece. it is calling for a revision of the treaty of lausanne and it is claiming dozens of greek islands in the aegean. turkey's foreign minister, çavuşoğlu, is threatening greece with war if it does not give turkey eighteen greek islands. at the same time, violations of greek airspace, violations of greek territorial waters and the closure of the imias airports continue. the european union must therefore put words aside and put things into practice. firstly, the immediate cessation of the accession negotiations. secondly, immediate cut of funding to turkey. thirdly, the imposition of economic and political sanctions against turkey. fourthly, an embargo on exports of turkish agricultural products to the european union. fifth, freezing the assets of the turkish government elite, which is guilty of rights abuses. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity. specific measures here and now, mr. hahn. no more words and caresses in turkey.
mr president, mrs mogherini told us a moment ago that the european union is being frank with turkey. but turkey is also open to the european union. he always treated her like a slave. he threatens, blackmails for more benefits, ignores her sensitivities and constantly threatens. he's threatening to take more money. he threatens greece and cyprus with war. he is threatening greece in order to extort the concession of eighteen greek islands. it does not recognise the republic of cyprus. it is a violation of human rights, it is a violation of international law, and all this is happening under the eyes of the european union, or at best, under the whiners of the european union. now the european union is worried about the turkish invasion of the afrin region. but has the european union condemned the turkish invasion of cyprus in 1974? has he demanded that the troops leave the occupied territories? has he threatened, has he made it clear to turkey that the door of the european union is closed once and for all to this asian state which has nothing to do with the principles and values of europe?
in writing. the erdogan regime, using the pretext of the failed coup attempt in july 2016, is trying to "legalize" any notion of undermining the rule of law within the country. the guarantees of the independence of the judiciary have been seriously undermined, and censorship and arrests of journalists have increased. international organisations are sounding the alarm, pointing out that recent legislative decrees have granted the turkish administrative authorities and executive power almost unlimited powers, derogating from the general principles of the rule of law and the absolute guarantees of human rights, which apply in any democratic society. although turkey hosts over two million refugees on its territory, receiving generous eu funding for this, it grants them temporary protection status en masse, which does not recognize the beneficiaries' rights and benefits under the geneva convention. at the same time, turkey continues to directly and continuously threaten the sovereign rights of two eu member states, greece and cyprus, in defiant disregard of international law. europe must take a harder line and put pressure on erdogan to return to the legality, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights that are undeniably the essence of democracy and the cornerstone of the eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we are talking about a huge constituency which is supposed to vote for candidates whom - i am sure - it does not even know, and those who will be supported will of course be the big parties, those who have the means to finance them. so, in practice, the interests will impose regulations. thirdly, it is not an international ballot but an international list, that is to say a list drawn up by whom? the european political parties. what parties ? from the bureaucracies, from the leaders, from the party bosses. they will create them, because there are no members in european political parties; they are parties of parties; they are bureaucracies. so it would be an undemocratic choice.
madam president, the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union will create a vacancy of 73 seats. with the exception of a minimal redistribution among the other member states, the european parliament is trying to commit all 46 of these seats to a common pan-european list. although, in theory, one could find negatives and positives in this proposition, the reality is somewhat different. in fact, if the proposed change is adopted, it will only widen the gap in influence between the larger states within the union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. the european parliament's role in the european union is to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers in a democratic manner and to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers in a democratic manner. finally, recent experience has shown that the union does not treat all political parties equally, but, on the contrary, tries by all means to stifle patriotic and nationalist voices, a phenomenon which is expected to intensify after the adoption of the supranational lists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they seek to create a small european elite of prominent meps who are essentially under the orders of the eu leadership and who are cut off from their constituents, whose interests they cannot serve. in addition, they do not comply with the principle of proportionality and, together with the ballots for the commissioners, the 'spitzenkandidaten', are directed against small parties and small countries and promote the interests of large countries and large parties. that is why this proposal must be voted against. it does not respond to democratic needs and, moreover, it prevents citizens from being involved in european affairs.
i wonder, madam president, what exactly the commission and the european parliament are trying to achieve with this proposal, because i see no real sense, no substance. i would like to point out only two things which i think are of particular interest to the european public. first, the election of the president of the commission is democratic in name only, whereas in practice it is merely an approval of his appointment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. finally, as an additional point, and as a sign of the logic of the european union institutions, you have been quick to abolish the compulsory leave without pay for any commissioner who, paradoxically, wants to be judged by the citizens for once and stand as a candidate in the european elections. you're ensuring that he continues to enjoy his salary while ignoring the obvious conflict of interest, as he continues to exercise his executive duties in the midst of an election campaign. i'm not going to let you do this.
madam president, there is a lot of ambiguity and embellishment in the process of appointing the top candidate. because, technically, what's going to happen? how will this top candidate be defined? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. but are you a party? do you have any members? you don't have members of the public. you have the national parties as members. so you're a bureaucracy, not a real party. if you want to be a real party, be a membership party. and since you're a membership party, your members democratically, by voting in a referendum, choose this top candidate. so what's it gonna be? your bureaucracy and the party bosses will determine the candidate. so you'll be in control of who that candidate is. so this is not a democracy. first, create democratic parties, and then you have the right to nominate the leading candidates.
madam president, the procedure for the top candidates to be proposed by the european political parties to the commission does not strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the union. the aim is to give the institutions political legitimacy by means of a sufficient parliamentary majority. the principle of proportionality is being abolished in practice. examples of this parliamentary authoritarianism have been experienced by political groups such as the efdd, the enf and non-registered mps, by excluding them from a number of parliamentary procedures. unfortunately for the so-called 'democracy', there is a lack of clarity of intent in this report which effectively cancels out any attempt at open and transparent procedures. i would oppose all of this to the direct election of commissioners-designate by the citizens of the member states and their eventual election by the members of the european parliament.
madam president, i have been delayed on this report because it seemed to me to be a cleaner way of clearing any vacancies after the uk's departure. such partial redistribution and partial blocking of seats seems to me to be a compromise that is difficult to explain to the citizens. otherwise, i'll admit i'm glad he hasn't passed the transnational constituency since 2019. i am a big supporter of the idea of european integration, the european union, but i feel that we need to strengthen the relationship between european politicians and their voters, between citizens. in short, citizens should know who their members are, and know whom to turn to if they have doubts about a directive or regulation. we saw that in the debate on the firearms directive. and when it is a single transnational electoral list, then the relationship between european politicians and citizens is rather diminished and threatened. i mean, i think that transnational circuits are really against the idea of european integration.
madam president, i voted against the report on the new composition of the european parliament. first of all because the way he apportions or allocates seats is unfair. it is certainly favouring certain countries. it is unfair to other states, such as greece, which previously had 22 seats and then its seats in the european parliament were reduced to 21. i think greece should have been given at least one more seat. secondly, the way the allocation is made does not take into account the populations of certain countries who have been forced to emigrate, such as the thousands of greeks who have emigrated because of the memoranda and the troika. we should, in our view, also take account of greek citizens who reside outside greece but are registered on the electoral rolls. the way in which seats were allocated in this case should have been that way. i have already spoken in detail about the international ballot in my speech to the european parliament a short while ago.
madam president, i voted against the report and, following on from what i said during the debate, i want to point out some points about the lead candidate which many have presented as a great democratic achievement. who's the one to name the lead candidate? the parties at european level, such as the european people's party or the socialist party. and i ask: are these parties or a set of bureaucracies ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a matter of parties of parties. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament, and that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. so, the leaders and the party bureaucracy will choose the lead candidate. is this a democracy? it would be a democracy if these parties had the same citizens as members.
in writing. social inequalities are growing in the old continent. this is due both to the very structure of the eurozone and to the policy pursued, which is based on merkel's austerity and forced fiscal adjustment, which have resulted in the creation of armies of unemployed and millions of poor people. social inequalities in the european union are thus articulated both within each member state and between the member states of the eu's hard core and periphery, with particular emphasis on the european south. the continuing divergence between the eu's hard core and periphery is apparent when looking at unemployment rates, and particularly youth unemployment rates. greece, spain and italy are therefore leaders in youth unemployment, while the corresponding rates are particularly low in germany, austria, luxembourg, etc. the european union must therefore make a radical change in the structure of the eurozone, abandon the policy of austerity and build a europe with a triple a social dimension. in this context, measures should be taken to introduce, in a first phase, a european minimum social income, a european minimum wage and a european unemployment benefit.
mr president, the attempt to replace the current electoral law on the election of members of the european parliament with another law which will provide for the integration of national parties into european parties is another attempt to remove important powers from the states, to marginalize the national states and, in the end, to bring about a confederation of the european union. the will of the voters is also being undermined, since they will no longer have the right to elect the meps of their choice, but those who will be imposed by a small group of leaders in the european union. the new approach destroys the rights of small countries in favour of large ones and of small parties in favour of large ones, because both countries and parties will lose seats that will be given to large countries. the voter will thus be alienated from the representative of the mep, will not be able to influence the situation and this will lead to his indifference to european issues and will lead him not to participate in european elections and, in the final phase, to ask his country to leave the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the european elections. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". mr president, transparency is something that everyone wants, but what is hidden behind what we call transparency is an attempt to manipulate and influence the decision of the electorate. the voter will not have the right to choose who will represent him because he will in fact be determined by the major european parties.
mr president, we are discussing what the council has not done, but we should look at the proposal put forward by the european parliament, a proposal which is supposed to ensure greater equality of the citizens of the union; but at the same time this proposal creates a threshold, which means that a party in greece, for example, has to have 3% in order to be elected to the european parliament, in another country 5%. that is an undemocratic attitude. that's stealing votes. this means that there will be a large number of european citizens who can vote for these small parties but who will not be represented in practice. it will be a misguided law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the possibility of plurality is excluded. i think that is where we must stand and that is where the 3% or 5% electoral thresholds must be overturned. these exist in national parliaments for governance, so that a stable government can be elected. we don't vote here, we don't elect government, so we don't need those boundaries.
i would like to inform you that i decided during the catch-the-eye procedure not to give out any more blue cards because mrs macovei often asks for blue cards. i have that right. i have been informed that mrs macovei was among the speakers. but we are very late and i beg for your understanding.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 480/2009 on the establishment of a guarantee fund for external actions (com ((2016) 0582 c8-0374/2016 2016/0274co (((d)) (a8-0132/2017) the report of eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 466/2014/eu granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union (com ((2016) 0752 c8-0374/2016 2016/0274co (((d)) (com ((2016) 0752/2016 (a8-0136) c8-083/2016) (a8-0136)
mr coburn, i am not able to give you your money back, but you have a blue card.
that was not a question. it was something else, a comment. but you could answer.
mr president, advanced countries are supporting sustainable development in developing countries, in addition to serving their strategic objectives, from curbing the causes of illegal migration to combating climate change. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the commission's proposals. i am sceptical about the further delegation of economic powers to the commission, which misinterprets humanitarian and development aid policies where appropriate and is influenced by extra-institutional actors and decision-makers. on the contrary, despite its failings, the european investment bank has a comparatively high degree of independence, appropriate know-how and financial expertise. i therefore doubt whether the proposals serve the acquis communautaire, the treaties, the case law and the values of the union rather than the political ambitions of a commission looking for accomplices and accomplices.
mr president, mr president of the european investment bank, mr hoyer, i will ask you the same questions that i asked you in an earlier debate but which you did not answer, and they concern the financing of fraport by the european investment bank with eur 280 million. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was in fact concluded by ryanair and ams. it has taken out loans from banks totalling eur 688 million, of which eur 284 million was granted by alpha bank, to which you, as the bank, granted eur 100 million. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement between the ccipb and fraport was in fact concluded in the absence of the agreement. where did he get the money? but you gave fraport eur 280 million. the other 50 will be in the profits. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. investors like that, you know what we call them in greece? we call them "free guys" because, in effect, without having any money, with your contribution, they grab the greek state property. this is your activity, and i want you to answer this time. answer this time!
mr president, commissioner, i listened carefully to your speech and it is good that the commission is paying attention to the development of civil society in the countries of the european union. there is no doubt that civil society is of paramount importance to the functioning of a democratic rule of law. if it is strong, it can prevent the strengthening of extremist tendencies, extremist views and it contributes to making people resistant to national and extremist tendencies, that is, it is in our own interest to have strong civil societies in the event that extremist national anti-european political movements begin to strengthen significantly in some countries. i see a very important role in this, if we are talking here on the floor of a political body such as the european parliament. on the other hand, i am clear that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the european union as such should not interfere with the functioning of civil societies in individual member states. rather, we should approach this in a positive way and, where appropriate, support financially and otherwise the civil movements and other institutions of civil society in those countries where they may not yet be fully developed. and i feel, for example, in the former post-communist states, in my own country and in the visegrad countries, that the european union should support those civil movements which spread information about european integration, information about european identity, about what is often fashionable to deny and to relativize these days.
mr president, civil society does indeed contribute to the deepening of democracy. it contributes to the ability of citizens to have an even stronger voice. and we have civil society organizations, like unions, that really play a very important role. on the other hand, we must be careful not to turn civil society, and in particular non-governmental organisations, into groups that serve lobbies. this is very important and we must take it into account. finally, i should like to mention that in greece, ngos in connection with refugee issues have received a lot of money and it is literally a party. it was not transparent, mrs jourová. they have taken a lot of money and while this money should have been given to support refugees in too many places, like lesvos, the results are pathetic because there is a party going on there. i have said it in this chamber: there must be control of funding and olaf must be involved to control where the money goes. they don't go for the refugees, they're there for them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the european parliament is making a real effort to support human rights activists all over the world. we have discussed these issues many times and passed resolutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. first of all, stereotypes in the family itself often prevent women from playing a leading role. at the same time, we have attacks on women who fight for human rights, rape and sexual defamation. also, in some religions, especially in muslim countries, women have very limited rights. so, we really need important policies to support women who are fighting for human rights.
madam president, since 1981, when the countries of the european union have been switching between winter and summer time, there has been much debate about whether or not this practice really has any advantages. the real time - or rather the solar time - is the winter time. the summertime is a method, an agreement between states, so that we can start work an hour earlier and take advantage of more sunlight. however, the opinions of the workers differ according to the type of work they perform; some prefer the time change and others do not. however, advocates of abolishing daylight saving time argue that the effect of the change is to disrupt the quality of sleep and work of workers and to cause long-term health problems. the european union must take care of all this so that if summertime is abolished, it can work with the member states to ensure that the daily lives of their citizens are not affected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the time of day is not changed, and that the time of day is not changed. it's bad for work. but at the same time, it gives more leisure time, and the sunshine is also a positive influence. it should be understood that the effects are different depending on the geographical location of each country. so countries closer to the equator don't use the time change because the east-west difference throughout the year is small. i think we should have a flexible system, like the one in brazil, where the time is changed only in the southern part of the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that's the most accurate position.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to the debate. we are all describing the horrors that are happening to the children of haiti, but if this debate is to have any effect and it is not just a council of counts, then the conclusion of this debate should really be that the european union, the commission will actually be doing a lot more to help these children on this island, because we all know that the cause is poverty, the disruption of this country given by the natural conditions, the hurricane and in short, well, this country, even if it wanted to, will not be able to solve the problems of children in slavery. so the only chance to do something about it is for us to help a lot more, to see where the 420 million euros actually go, whether they help children or whether the money is stolen. next, we need to put pressure on the other partners in the world who have promised to help haiti after the hurricane. that means that the help has to come from outside, then there's a chance that the children in haiti will be better off.
madam president, i support the resolution, which i am also a co-signer of. the resolution condemns child labour in haiti, a country which is extremely poor and has a huge external debt which must soon be restructured. the use of children as domestic helpers - restavek, as they are called - in haiti is a system, in essence, of modern slavery. it's about the domestic help trade. over 400,000 children in haiti are part of this system, and 60 percent are girls. most of them have also been sexually assaulted. it is obvious that this unacceptable situation must be brought to an end. the government of haiti must be forced to sign un convention 189 and concrete measures must be taken to protect children in order to abolish this system of modern child slavery.
member of the commission. – mr president, i can only add my voice to our collective outrage at the complete disregard for human life in eastern ghouta, but unfortunately, beyond eastern ghouta, the escalation of violence is also deeply worrying. as you said in italy, we have seen – and the united nations has reported – almost 250 000 new displacements since december. out of 2.4 million civilians there, half are now internally displaced. food and shelter are also in short supply. i could certainly continue this list to include other areas, for instance, the berm along the border with jordan, which is very close. all this gives enough evidence that we are still far from the normalisation of the situation in syria. unfortunately, the humanitarian dimension will therefore feature prominently again at the second conference in brussels on syria and the region, to take place on 24 and 25 april, where we will need to discuss how to improve our assistance and how to mobilise funding beyond this year, 2018. needs are likely to increase further. this is the humanitarian situation on the ground and this is why the conference is an opportunity for us, as chair, to further work together towards the shared objective of supporting the syrians in need, their host countries and communities, and promoting a sustainable political solution. but i totally agree with you, and let us also be clear that only a political solution to this crisis can end the suffering of the syrian people. we must support and relaunch the geneva talks because that they are the only realistic path towards peace. in the present conference we will also work to support geneva, keeping together the humanitarian and the political track. we have been – and will be – at the forefront of the work to reach sustainable peace in syria, with you and all the eu institutions and member states together. i strongly believe that syrians deserve this and we have a political and moral duty to keep syria at the core of our common action and our common foreign policy. this is the hard reality on the ground. all of us know all the obstacles to engaging more as europeans in this unbelievable situation, but by following this pragmatic path, we can continue our work together in order to see results on the ground as soon as possible. my last point is about sexual abuse by some organisations. maybe you do not know that the commission expects our partners to abide by strict ethical and professional rules, codes of conduct and principles. there is no change in our position. we definitely take a zero—tolerance approach across the board to any allegation of misconduct by organisations receiving our funding. last week we sent a letter to all eu—funded humanitarian organisations to remind them of their strict obligations. the letter requests a detailed description of all measures that they have put in place. at the same time, we are ready to review and, if necessary, cease funding any partner who is not living up to the required high, critical ethical and professional rules and standards, as we have already established. so, we are following the situation and i strongly believe that we have to be very tough regarding any such incidents in order, above all, to sustain our reputation as humanitarians.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in syria has hit a red flag with hundreds of civilians being killed and seriously injured, and this is not only the situation in ghouta but also in afrin, another syrian region where turkey has illegally invaded and is committing a massacre of civilians, thus committing war crimes, turkey which is known to collaborate openly with the jihadists. so it is time, as we have said in another speech to the european parliament on 28/2/2018, for turkey to be referred for war crimes to the international criminal court.
mr president, the european elections in may 2019 must be held in the most open and democratic way. this means ensuring pluralism in the media of the member states. unfortunately in greece the state media and the majority of the private media have imposed a gag order on our party "greece - the other way". although we are a party represented in the european parliament, although the speaker is a member of the ecr parliamentary group of the third political group in the european parliament, the greek media are biased against us and systematically exclude us from all news broadcasts. mr president, we ask the european parliament and you personally for your support in order to ensure pluralism in the greek media and to stop the blockade of the ecr and our party "greece - the other way" ahead of the 2019 european elections because otherwise the elections in greece in 2019 will be a monument of silence and arbitrariness and bias.
mr president, turkey has recently chosen the path of aggression and provocation in the aegean and cyprus, challenging the sovereign rights of two countries of the european union. this aggression is also giving rise to a new wave of military equipment in greece and turkey, as evidenced by eurostat and nato data, thus taking away significant resources that could be used for the well-being of the two peoples. the european council has reacted to this turkish aggression with a politically hypocritical statement, in my view, which simply asks turkey to stop its provocative actions against greece and cyprus, and i say politically hypocritical because it is the european war industries that continue to sell arms to turkey, because they are the ones who benefit most from the tension between greece and turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the peoples want a peaceful settlement of their differences. on the contrary, it is the imperialist designs of nato and the interests of the european union's war industry that seek instability ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the european council has made yet another unacceptable mistake in its relations with turkey. the commission has proposed that the talks with the country should be continued. the heads of state are obviously either indifferent or uninterested in taking a decisive stand against this international turmoil, which is endangering security and peace in the aegean, the eastern mediterranean and the middle east. what more could turkey have done to be faced with a decisive response from the european union? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's research and development programmes are implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the treaty. should he attack to take over the free part of cyprus or should he create a hot episode with greece in the aegean ? the european union is not only tolerating turkey and not closing the door to its entry, but it is also overestimating its strength and creating problems in a discouraged way.
mr president, we are discussing the european union's priorities in relation to human rights, which it will develop at the un human rights council, in which saudi arabia is a member. a country that does not respect human rights! a country that imposes the death penalty! a country where there are no women's rights! a country which, literally every day, attacks yemen and we are discussing what the european union will say in the framework of the un human rights council where saudi arabia is! that's some terrible bilingualism. someone should report this. of course, we must denounce the human rights violations in turkey where erdoğan, as a new sultan, has destroyed every concept of democracy, every concept of human rights protection and of course illegally threatens both greece and cyprus. so, action against all those who violate human rights!
mr president, geographical indications and designations of origin for alcoholic beverages are intangible collective goods which must be protected by the european union because they contribute to development. this is particularly true, mr hogan, of greece, which produces a number of traditional drinks such as tic-tac-toe, tsipouro and ouzo. the protection of geographical indications for alcoholic beverages is constantly under threat because of international trade liberalisation agreements signed by the european union with third countries, such as ceta. in addition, despite the pressure exerted by the commission, greece should not abolish the reduced excise duty on traditional national drinks such as chicory and tsipouro, because the european union must finally protect the small producers of chicory and tsipouro and not the multinational whiskey and gin producers. so withdraw the action against greece to the court of justice of the european union!
mr president, the proposal for a regulation on alcoholic beverages has some imperfections. first, it does not comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and does not take into account that, by reason of the nature of alcoholic beverages, geographical indications of those products must be protected. if the question of lifting such protection arises, it should be the initiative of the member state and not of the commission. the bottling and packaging of alcoholic beverages must also take place within the geographical area concerned in order to protect their quality and specific characteristics. otherwise, there is a risk that they will be falsified and that the consumer will not be protected. finally, in greece the production of traditional alcoholic beverages such as ouzo, tsikoudia and tsipouro must be protected because the producers of these products are small family businesses and, if this protection is removed, they will suffer economic disaster.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of fundamental rights must be a priority for the european union, both internally and in its external relations. the reduction in rights in critical areas such as social rights is not a cause for complacency. the report we are discussing today does not sufficiently highlight the shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights in practice. it is characteristic that no mention is made of the impact of the implementation of budgetary adjustment programmes on the fundamental rights of millions of union citizens, such as labour rights and health, nor of the consequences of environmental degradation. the systematic violation of fundamental rights in the applicant countries, such as turkey, is also covered up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the report we are discussing, mr president, is a monument to discrimination against european citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is not only a political force, but also a political force. the union is, however, obliged to respect national identity, which is inherent in the fundamental political and constitutional structure. the more the multiculturalism and marginalization of european citizens is promoted, through the forced integration of illegal immigrants who refuse to share human and christian values, the more the incidents of terrorism, robbery and rape will increase. the report is a tool of disorientation, a tool of coercion and a product of grey propaganda promoting globalisation and the disintegration of national identity and conscience.
mr president, the memoranda and the austerity policies have increased poverty and unemployment in greece and have led to a violation of the fundamental rights of the greek people, and in particular to a violation of their social rights. the memorandum measures deprived the impoverished greek people of the right to access basic public goods such as health, education and social security. at the same time, they slashed pensions, violating property rights. the european union and in particular the commission should respect the charter of fundamental rights in greece, but this is not the case and mr moscovici himself admitted this, answering a question to the commission on the violation of the european social charter and claiming that the european social charter is not binding and does not impose legal obligations on the european union and the member states. in this case, the european commission is washing its hands of the fact that the charter of social rights has been violated in greece. this is a member of the troika that is violating human rights in greece.
mr president, the international criminal court in the hague, which deals mainly with yugoslavia, has left a legacy: the exoneration of the crimes of nato and the european union, which, by fomenting nationalism and altruism, by bombing civilians, dismantled yugoslavia, redrawn borders, set up states, useful protectorates today in its current competition with russia and china, which are once again making the balkans a firebomb. this mechanism condemned as a war crime resistance to the disintegration of the country, the defense of territorial integrity. the court of justice, under pretext, refused to recognize the nazi massacre of dystomos in greece. such justice, a card, ordered by the imperialists, an instrument for implementing and legitimizing their plans, intervening by definition in the redrawing of borders! nato and the european union and their court of justice do not mean peace, security, stability, as their flag bearer in the balkans, syriza, and the new democracy, and the nationalists agree, but war, changing borders, the blood of peoples for the interests of the monopolies. the people of athens cried out loudly yesterday, and the people of thessaloniki will do the same the day after tomorrow, at the call of the communist party of greece.
mr president, in view of the work and legacy of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, it is important to consider what will happen to other war crimes committed in other parts of the world and to consider what will happen to turkey, which is actually committing war crimes, having invaded syria and iraq, where it literally occupies afrin, where war crimes are being committed. is it not time to think about how those responsible from turkey for the violation of human rights in syria, for their cooperation with the jihadists, for the crimes that are being committed at this moment in afrin and in other areas, will be prosecuted? perhaps this should be one of the main conclusions to be drawn from today's debate: referral of the turkish leadership to the international criminal court for war crimes.
mr president, the fact that mr barroso was hired by goldman sachs has caused quite a stir in european public opinion. we now see that barroso is also lobbying for goldman sachs, although he promised not to do so, which is challenging european public opinion and that is the key element. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because if it was a private meeting, then there was no point in recording it as a meeting with goldman sachs, and if it was a meeting with goldman sachs, you should have described and referred to the meeting with barroso as well. so it's obvious that there's a misconduct on your part and that needs to be corrected. the fact that you have discussed defence matters in such a general and vague way does not convince us. is goldman sachs interested in a defense equity stake? for defense stocks ? - yes or no ? you know about this ?
madam president, tax evasion and tax avoidance are on the agenda and we know this from the cases of aggressive tax planning that are taking place in the european union, in luxembourg, in the netherlands, in ireland, in malta. on a global level, of course, tax havens are increasing, and of course we know from the panama papers what has happened. now that the list of non-cooperating countries for tax purposes has been drawn up, specific countries are being removed. panama is being taken out! what enormous hypocrisy is shaping things and what commitments are they making? a letter was sent, it's not binding, the letter isn't even published, they don't take legislative commitments. i ask you, mrs panayotova, was the council's decision unanimous? have all the countries agreed to let panama go? and if not all countries agreed, did greece agree to take panama off the list of non-cooperating countries for tax purposes? we need an answer. we want transparency.
madam president, beekeeping is an important factor in supporting the living standards of populations in mountain and remote areas. measures are needed to protect beekeepers and consumers from unfair practices, as adulterated honey has flooded the internal market due to cumulative imports from turkey, china and ukraine. measures should be taken to impose a traceability, labelling and marking procedure for imported honey. in addition, measures to combat varroa disease are needed, as well as applied research to eradicate this disease and support for beekeepers with funding for queen production and purchase of hives. they also need funding for their seasonal movement, their training programmes and, finally, the designation of honey as a product of designated origin.
in writing. and in the honey business, they run a handful of monopolies. with the state-of-the-art methods they have developed, they can take any honey from any source, stripping it of any traces of its locality (e.g., gyrococcus), and mix it with honey from another area, naming it as they wish. the european union regulations allow this because they do not consider it fraudulent to mix honey and the report does not even call for its abolition. in greece, where honey is of exceptional quality, small producers are being wiped out by this worsening situation and by the anti-people policy of the government, with the blessing of the eu. the european union is also making a major contribution to the development of the european transport network. it is not about product quality and public health, but about the profits of big business. the committee calls for immediate measures, such as tax relief and production cost reductions, to bring real relief to small and medium-sized beekeepers.
the turkish bourgeoisie is intensifying its aggression by invading and occupying, besides cyprus and iraq, syria, challenging borders, sovereign rights, the treaty of lausanne, ambushing a greek ship and provoking in the aegean, with both nato and the european border guard present. in the cypriot eez it also causes energy control. the competition of the big interests breeds wars and the blood of the peoples is shed. one thing is true: the european union and nato have not protected and will never protect borders and sovereign rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. no change of borders! the greek people must firmly oppose the imperialist plans of the european union and nato, the bourgeois forces, the syriza-anel government and the involvement of greece!
madam president, the european council of 23 february 2018 had the opportunity to send a decisive message to erdoğan and to turkey, to turkey which is now openly threatening greece with war, to turkey which is violating greek territorial waters in the aegean, imposing an illegal maritime blockade on the imias and boarding a vessel of the greek navy, to turkey which, acting as a modern pirate, wants to seize the undersea wealth of the cypriot eez, where rich natural gas and oil deposits are located. tusk's message to erdoğan should have been more decisive and should have been combined with the imposition of political diplomatic, military and economic sanctions against ankara. the european council should have already imposed a complete and total ban on the sale of military equipment to ankara and a series of harsh economic sanctions, because this is the only language the sultan understands. but the european council has stuck to its word and thrown the ball into the ring.
the european union and the polish government are intensifying their imperialist rivalries under the pretext of justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the same time, they are not saying a word about the fact that tomorrow, 1 march, the polish communist party and its members will be brought before the courts again on the charge of propagating communist ideology in the newspaper brzask and on its website, with threats of two years' imprisonment. the european union and the polish government are in agreement on anti-communism. we condemn the anti-communist measures and persecutions, we condemn the banning of communist symbols and the dissemination of communist ideas. we denounce the fact that at the same time it is a great challenge to pay tribute to the nazi collaborators, to equate the monster of fascism, which is the natural child of the capitalist system, with communism. we demand an immediate end to all persecution of the communist party of poland, its members and officials. the suppression of historical truth and anti-communism will not pass.
mr president, as a result of the economic crisis, trillions of euros of public money have been allocated to rescue banks, burdening the public debt of the states, and all this at a time when the funds allocated to tackling unemployment were minimal. in greece, three bank recapitalisations increased the public debt and socialised the banks' losses, while rescuing the banks' shareholders, many of whom were foreign shareholders. in fact, with the third memorandum, the banks were sold again to private individuals, instead of a lens board, resulting in at least eur 30 billion in damage to the public sector and, as if that were not enough, the banks that were rescued are now attacking the same depositors, the same citizens who rescued them, who unfortunately have bad loans and are now activating electronic auctions in greece, resulting in crows grabbing the homes of greeks. this is unacceptable. this situation cannot continue. the greek people will not allow the crows to take over the homes of the greeks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european economy and the european system are not shielded against a future crisis. in this respect, the completion of the third pillar, which is positive for citizens, the european perspective, small and mediumsized enterprises, is being dangerously delayed because there are certain member states in the council, the netherlands, germany, a small but very powerful minority, which is effectively vetoing. because even within the european parliament, there are objections and counter-objections from the right and the far right of the political spectrum. but we must move forward because it is in the interests of the citizens. significant progress has been made in reducing the risk. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the risk is shared. the european integration cannot be a mere card, it must also include the european deposit guarantee scheme.
mr president, the latest decisions of the eurogroup, signed by the syriza government, are clear: 11 000 auctions this year alone in greece. banking union means further capital injection of the banks, which in greece means three memoranda, layoffs and drastic cuts in wages and pensions without end, even after the formal expiry of the memorandum, now with the loss of the people's housing and the first home, in order to recover bank funds, with thousands of electronic auctions and with loan sales to the funds' racks with a single purpose: to finance viable (i.e. large) enterprises. another huge theft of public property for capital. the need for this system is so pressing that popular resistance to auctions is punished as a crime of the same name, hit with tear gas and with anti-personnel mines, as yesterday in athens. the greek government and the european union should take note: the people are not going to back down. unconditional protection of the people's home, not the blackmail of the banks and the state!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i should like to congratulate mr maurel on his report. my team will vote for it. it is a positive step and i would say that it is one of the reports which attempts to reinforce a positive, albeit belated, commission proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. we must always be more efficient, because enormous sums are being lost, both from the state budget and from the european union, at the expense of honest taxpayers, at the expense of the welfare state, at the expense of achievements and at the expense of the morality and ethics of fair competition between businesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat fraud.
mr president, this is yet another time when the union has failed to meet the expectations of its citizens. worse still, not only will this report not address the tax evasion of large corporations, but it raises legitimate concerns about the security of personal data and how it can be used in the future. first, the tax system itself in many member states allows legal tax avoidance to those who have the means to identify and exploit the various loopholes in the law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single market is not a one-off event, but a one-off event. it is certainly unreasonable to expect a company to remain in one country and pay multiple taxes when it can, by taking advantage of the single market, move its headquarters and save huge sums of money, except of course for small and mediumsized enterprises which, by their very nature, cannot do so. but because single taxation would be an unacceptable transfer of sovereignty for us, we support the return of frontiers in the movement of goods or services within the union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. we know this, and this can be done, first of all, by imposing the obligation to tax multinationals where they actually make their profits. the second is that aggressive tax planning policies are essentially based on the regulations of the member states themselves and therefore, by changing the legislation, one can deal with this situation, because only in this way will unfair competition be stopped. the report is therefore positive and of course there must be an exchange of information, but what we must do is to close, by law, the various 'loopholes' which allow tax evasion and tax avoidance by the various multinationals. so that is where we must be, that is the key element: to close all the tax loopholes and all the tax loopholes.
member of the commission. – madam president, terrorists need to raise and move funds to maintain their networks, cover their logistical needs and commit their attacks. we need to close down the space in which they can do this. countering terrorist financing is not only about limiting their capacity to act, but also about, as we have just heard, using financial intelligence to detect and stop terrorists before they act. recent attacks perpetrated in europe have been financed with relatively small sums of money, and that poses some new challenges to those who are working on the front line to prevent terrorist attacks. we need to give law enforcement and our public authorities the tools they need to do their job and to help keep us safe. so i very much welcome the timely recommendations in this report. tackling terrorist financing is a high priority for all of us. from the commission side, it is a key part of our work to build an effective security union. our approach was set out in the action plan for strengthening the fight against terrorist financing of february 2016, and we are now taking that work forward on two fronts: detecting and preventing terrorist funding, and disrupting the sources of revenue. that covers a range of different measures: preventing the misuse of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing; increasing cooperation and the exchange of information between competent authorities, in particular financial intelligence units; tracing the financial movements of terrorists; improving the effectiveness of asset-freezing systems; reinforcing the judicial response to terrorist financing and money laundering; supporting third countries in countering terrorist financing and money laundering in their implementation of the financial action task force standards; supporting customs authorities with tools to identify sources of revenue of terrorist organisations; and supporting third countries as they engage with international partners, not only through the fatf, as i mentioned, but also other bodies such as the anti-isis coalition working group on countering financing of terrorism, and indeed the work that is done in the framework of the g-7. so i am glad to see that many of the report’s recommendations are in line with the work that we are undertaking. we welcome the emphasis in the report on information-sharing, in particular among financial intelligence units, as well as other national agencies. we welcome your support for the establishment of central bank account registries. i am glad to say, as announced in the commission work programme for this year, we will soon present initiatives to improve cross-border access to financial data for law enforcement authorities. this will include measures to facilitate access to national centralised bank account registries and retrieval systems within member states. we will also propose measures to improve the cooperation between law enforcement authorities and the various financial intelligence units. in line with the report’s recommendations, we have reinforced europol’s role in this fight against terrorist financing. we take note of the call for increasing monitoring of prepaid cards. the fifth anti-money laundering directive is a step forward, i think, in reinforcing the transparency around this means of payment. with its list of non-cooperative jurisdictions, the eu is also acting to increase the exchange of information on tax matters with third countries, as you have been discussing. this will help national administrations to detect the presence of illicit money and money-laundering. we appreciate your support for the eu-us terrorist finance tracking programme and we take note of your call for a european system to complement that. on asset-freezing, we appreciate the report’s support for existing measures. the eu’s asset-freezing efforts have been reinforced with the autonomous eu regime against al-qaeda and daesh. we appreciate the emphasis on hawala. in the supranational risk assessment of money laundering and terrorism financing risks, the commission recommended that hawala service providers should apply the requirements related to money-transfer systems under the payment services directive and the anti-money laundering directive, and we are committed to keeping this particular sector under close review. in relation to high-value goods, i would like to underline that the proposal to amend the cash control regulation expands the definition of cash to gold and other high-value commodities. we appreciate your support for our proposed regulation on the import of cultural goods. this issue remains of high importance in addressing the problem of cultural goods being illegally taken from third countries, from their proper historical and archeological context, and being brought to the eu. this can in turn foster organised crime, terrorist financing, money laundering and tax evasion. member states should also soon adopt the commission’s proposals to strengthen the vat system and reinforce the collective fight against vat fraud, which again can feed criminal and terrorist organisations. so in a nutshell, i am glad that the work the commission is doing in this area is in line with many of the measures you call for and support in today’s report. some other new measures you suggest merit further analysis. we will take a careful look at them and we will come back to you on them. countering financing of terrorism is a core component of the eu strategy in the fight against terrorism and hence in our work to build an effective security union. as the terrorists and their supporters constantly modify and change the ways they collect, move and get access to funds, we need to be ready to adopt and adapt our response. the eu needs to adapt its instruments and measures to deprive terrorists of the space and the means they use as they seek to do us harm. i count on your continued support as we take this work forward.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr nart for having managed to present an inclusive and balanced report. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to do so. this reality is not going to change as long as we insist, unambiguously, on preventing the financing of terrorism through the international financial system. it is, after all, the system that develops and adopts some of the means by which terrorists finance themselves. moreover, most attacks in europe today require very few resources and terrorists use methods of transferring and raising funds that evade the international financial system. it is hypocritical to pretend that we are trying to fight terrorism when we are working with countries that are deliberately allowing it to germinate. the commissioner, tell us, which states and regimes are the ones with which the european union is cooperating, even though they are directly or indirectly involved in the financing of terrorist organisations? tell us who 's arming them ? tell us what you are doing to help the areas where terrorist organizations are growing to deal with the illegal economic structures that feed them? when did you really work to promote development in these areas? when did you work to improve governance and fight corruption in these areas? that is what your policy on the fight against terrorism should be focused on if you really believe that you can and want to defeat it.
madam president, isis may have been defeated militarily on all fronts, but to effectively combat the terrorist activity of the jihadists, we must stop or at least limit their ability to finance. this effort is difficult because terrorists are constantly changing their funding methods. at the moment, we know that the financing of terrorists is mainly through western and arab banks, which support them openly, as well as through donations of supporters in small amounts, which come from the profits of small businesses and thus bypass the financial system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's security forces are able to operate in a safe and secure manner. the accounts of suspected depositors must also be checked at banks. but this does not allow for the infringement of depositors' rights. it should also not be used to prosecute political opponents.
madam president, the reduction of the sources of income of the jihadists will of course be achieved when their financing and of course the financing of terrorism is targeted. to do that, we must of course check the countries that have supported the jihadists and know who they are. it's saudi arabia, qatar and turkey. turkey was smuggling fuel backing the same jihadists. so that's where we have to turn. we need to find ways to freeze the assets of those who are actually working for the jihadists in turkey and other countries. there are very specific measures we need to take. we must also check the huge amounts of money laundering that is done in football. many arab countries sponsor football teams, with the aim of further radicalizing the poor muslim populations. we need to see all of this before we can deal with the jihadists.
madam president, on the extremely important problem of terrorism and especially on the problem of islamic terrorism, we have been straight and clear from the beginning. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to take action against those who support or finance it. unfortunately, no serious steps have been taken so far in the area of the semi-official state financing of terrorist organizations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the activities of the islamic caliphate. we also know all in this room about the mildly controversial role of saudi arabia, qatar and other gulf states and their sometimes overt support for the various islamist organizations that serve as conduits for the terrorists. the war in syria in particular has been extremely revealing as regards the role of these states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. when and where such transactions are detected, very strict sanctions should be imposed - not only on individuals but on the states themselves.
in writing. in a few days, march 8th, is women's day. and beyond the talk of equality, how does the european union really celebrate it? the recent decision by the european court of justice to allow pregnant women to be dismissed in the context of collective redundancies, he says, is sufficient if it is not for reasons of pregnancy but for economic reasons. it's a mockery. the savagery. for employers, pregnancy and motherhood are not synonymous with profits, competitiveness. the labor jungle of "private contracts" is raging with prospective employees not to start a family, contracts that are not renewed when the employee becomes pregnant. gender quotas do not change the laws of capitalist exploitation which exploit discrimination against women for profit as a means of reducing wages, of generalizing flexible work. the union's priorities are at odds with women's rights at work, social security and social rights. the rights of women are threatened by court decisions, community directives, national legislation. and they can only be won by joining the workers' movement.
madam president, the protection of geographical indications for alcoholic beverages is very important, especially for countries which have traditional drinks, such as greece, such as ouzo, tsikoudia and tsipouro. however, these traditional drinks must be bottled within the geographical area concerned. in addition, as i pointed out to mr hogan yesterday, the reduced excise duty on chicory and tsipouro must be maintained in greece, because only in this way can these traditional drinks be protected. in this context, the commission should withdraw the action it has brought against greece, which is currently before the court of justice of the european union, because, i repeat, this special consumption tax must be maintained, reduced by at least 50%, if these traditional drinks, namely chicory and tsipouro, are to be able to really survive.
mr president, for twelve days now the unlawful detention of two greek soldiers has been going on in the maximum security prison in adrianople, turkey. it is a case that has shocked the greek public. yesterday, in a grand rally in oresteia the parents of the two girls and the residents demanded their immediate release. i call on the house and on you personally, all of you together with one voice here in the european parliament, to demand from the turkish authorities the immediate release of the two greek soldiers illegally held in the turkish high security prison in adrianople. we need your immediate assistance, mr. president. it is expected by the whole public. the parents of the kids expect it. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, mr oettinger, mr juncker should be here in your place and not you answering. and he had to be here to take up his responsibilities, because when the matter came out he said that it was his absolute right to appoint whoever he wanted as secretary-general, because he compared himself in his statements with mr macron and mrs merkel and said that as they appoint whoever they want as secretary-general, so he can do the same in the commission. so he had to come here, to defend these views, to defend this provocative illegal behaviour, because that's what he said in his statements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote.
madam president, allow me to congratulate mr selmayr, a career politician in the mantle of a civil servant, on achieving a double promotion in just ten seconds. unfortunately, parliament does not have the formal power to dismiss the secretary-general of the commission, who serves at the discretion of the college of commissioners. the commission's admonitions are hypocritical, however, when it attacks member states with general statements about the rule of law, while it does not even respect the pretexts of morality, transparency and decency in its own house. the commission's lack of integrity is already well known. it is manifested by practices which respect the letter but not the spirit of the regulations: the different interpretation and application of the same rules to the member states as they see fit, the open politicization of the administration of theoretically neutral institutions and mechanisms and the german-held staffing of key positions. in this union there are no accomplices, only those responsible, there is no room for compromise or acceptance and, if necessary, i will support a proposal to dismiss the appointed commission.
the appointment of mr selmayr, a political friend of mr juncker, as secretary-general of the european commission, which was made suddenly and with a lack of transparency, is nothing more than a coup d'état in the functioning of this institution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the member states were also bypassed, and their right to intervene was removed. this whole methodology was done for one obvious reason: the small circle of european union leaders wants to appoint people in all the institutions whom they control completely, so as to manipulate the process and the decisions of these institutions. it is clear that the european union has abandoned the principles and values on which it was founded, has become an instrument for the purposes of globalisation and that is precisely why it chooses puppets to do what it has to do. this situation will change very quickly, because at the next european elections the member states will send patriots to this area and the corrupt politicians will be in the dustbin of history.
madam president, the various trade agreements of the european union lead to the opening up of markets and we have seen that in practice they are actually dismantling small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union, because the countries with which the european union has concluded agreements are countries which first of all do not comply with labour legislation, secondly, have starvation wages, do not comply with environmental standards and in practice lead to unfair competition and thus dismantle european economies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. see also what happens: they do not respect equal pay for equal work in developing countries, which means that women are predominantly employed, and of course they are not paid on equal terms with men, and this creates further unfair competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the integration of women into the labour market.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, what a surprise, a few days after women's day we are discussing the istanbul convention! it is sad that we only discuss gender violence and women's rights on the occasion of world days and scandals. don't forget that every day women and young girls are attacked. they live in fear and try to close their wounds. the fact that the union has signed the convention does not mean much to them. we need strategy and action, so i ask the commission to tell us: firstly, when will it come up with a specific strategy for implementing the convention, secondly, how much money will it allocate, thirdly, what programmes will it design and fourthly, whether it is considering establishing a special authority to combat violence in the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse is a very important one. it best reflects the mindset we need to nurture for future generations across the length and breadth of the earth. the slogan 'zero tolerance for violence' is based on a very specific logic. we denounce and condemn all acts of gender-based violence, bring perpetrators to justice, and protect and support victims. the european union must continue to be a leader in gender equality and the fight against violence, through strategies that inform, educate and sensitise men and women, but also each of us in our role as a beacon of hope and wake-up call to prevent and respond to aggressive behaviour. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in the future. but nothing justifies the use of legal instruments to promote ideological beliefs, nor is it acceptable to exert pressure on member states in an unlawful manner to take dominant decisions, instead of supporting them in the implementation of their commitments. the overall response to gender-based violence against men and women is hampered by such controversial texts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. i call on the commission to limit itself to supporting information, awareness and cooperation at union level and finally to allow member states to address the challenges by appropriate methods, according to their needs at the time.
mr president, the fact is that cross-border parcel delivery prices are relatively high. the famous liberalization of postal services has not led to lower prices for citizens or for small and mediumsized enterprises. for certain products, sales via the internet are prohibited because of the high prices of postal charges. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need to return to the model of national post offices and treat them as essentially state infrastructure. yes, on private initiative, but without undermining and degrading the public character of the post office in favour of the giant multinationals. i think it is unacceptable that private companies are being subsidised with taxpayers' money in order to provide services which until a few years ago were provided by the public postal service to all the inhabitants of the country, wherever they are, on a stable basis, at an affordable price and of a fixed quality. the following criteria, which are important in the postal services sector, must be ensured: they must be accessible to all, they must comply with the rules of fair competition, they must be proportionate to the cost of providing the service and, finally, they must comply with the rules of transparency and publicity. in addition, private postal companies have often provided negative handwriting samples, with violations of insurance and labor rights. finally, as regards the consignments of parcels within the member states, there are already supervisory authorities and nothing more is needed than coordination between them to regulate cross-border consignments.
mr president, i think the regulation addresses some of the issues that exist, because the cross-border delivery of goods suffers because it is too expensive, and it is too expensive because we have an abuse of the dominant position of private monopoly companies, which have basically taken over the space. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the postal services are not subject to the same rules as the postal services, and that the postal services are not subject to the same rules as the postal services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, road safety is of course of the utmost importance. we have thousands of accidents and, as has been said, over 25 000 people are killed on european roads. but there is a serious point, mrs bulc, which i would like to raise, and that is the qualifications of drivers from third countries. we have a lot of trucks from turkey that are going to greece and other european countries. the question is what kind of training these drivers have and whether they actually check for licenses or we have several cases where they are monkey licenses. and finally, i want to ask you, mrs. bulc: the european court of justice issued its decision c 590/2016 on 8/2, which requires the greek government to stop allowing the sale of tax-free oil to trucks, mainly turkish trucks and trucks from third countries, through tax-free shops. what measures will you take to oblige greece to implement this judgment of the court of justice of the european union c 590/2016, dated 8/2/2018;
madam president, i think the report on the european strategy for cooperative intelligent transport systems is particularly interesting, since it is now facing modern technological challenges, which, if exploited, could of course contribute to reducing traffic congestion, protecting the environment and avoiding massive pollution, particularly by lorries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must give truck owners and small and mediumsized businesses the opportunity to modernise their transport fleet, but this means funds, it means support, because if we automatically switch to a system where old vehicles are simply discarded, you realise that this will leave a lot of professionals out of work.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. i come from a country, greece, where if you look at the presentation map, you will understand that all the regions are included in this special category: low income, low growth - and the only way to deal with these problems is through specialised strategies - high borrowing costs, limited access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, the inability of these regions to have highly trained manpower and human capital, and unemployment. what can we do ? we can intensify our efforts in the field of smart specialisation, combine national strategies with regional strategies, highlight the competitive advantages of these regions, support entrepreneurship at the level of the institutional framework through smart production, even state aid, and above all make use of cohesion policy. it's the only way to stop the downward spiral.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the question is whether there is political will and, of course, resources. greece is a country where almost all the regions are lagging behind. we have a lot of problems, which have been exacerbated by the memorandum policy. however, i would like to refer to a specific issue, mrs crețu, concerning the islands of lesvos, chios, samos, ikaria and leros, which have been granted an arrangement to maintain a low value added tax rate until the end of july 2018. it is a regulation that has always been in place, and these islands have been chosen to be excluded, because they face enormous problems due to the flow of migrants. the point is that this exception must continue for all the aegean islands, that is to say, they must have a low value added tax in order to be able to move towards growth. it's something you should consider.
madam president, the report on the so-called backward regions of the european union shows a virtual reality of supposedly problematic exceptions 'among themselves and greece' in a prosperous european union. but the fairy tale of the so-called convergence, which you have been promoting for years, has gone bankrupt. your cohesion policy is the jungle that workers from all over the european union are already living in. it is the subsidies, all the sweat of the workers, for the profits of the business groups, provided the harsh anti-working measures last in the name of development. in the report you even consider collective bargaining as rigid, that is to say you even target the suspicion of signing a collective agreement. the european semester and the stability pact, the memoranda of understanding between the european union and the governments, which are still in force after the formal withdrawal from the memoranda, are of particular importance. the 88 new sacrifices-prerequisites of the fourth evaluation, the workers in greece with their rallies on the 20th of the month respond and demand collective agreements with wage increases and improved working conditions.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the european people's party on this report, i would like to thank the rapporteur and remind the house that 359 million european citizens, almost 72.5% of the population of the european union, live in cities. there you can see the effects of climate change, extreme weather events, storms, floods, droughts, soil erosion. in my country, greece, we had 23 dead not long ago, after catastrophic floods. this catastrophe could have been avoided if there had been the right planning and the right infrastructure. so it is essential to listen to local government, to encourage investment in cities, in energy efficiency, in clean energy innovation and renewable energy, and in infrastructure projects. we must, now that resources are running out, try to make use of the additional financial instruments from the european fund for strategic investments, as well as from the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020.
madam president, the role of the regions and cities is particularly important in implementing the paris agreement, the cop 21 on climate change, and of course this concerns the whole of europe, it also concerns greece, where unfortunately there is no cooperation between central government and local government and the regions. we have seen that we have had huge natural disasters recently in mandra, with 23 dead, and even now the local government is protesting to get the famous projects done. this applies to all of greece. the additional element that we must take seriously into account, and it is again linked to greece, is that it has entered into a process, due to the memorandum options, which includes the privatisation and sale of desfa, depa, elpe and mainly units of pte. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the abduction of greek soldiers by turkish military police on the border of evros on 1 march and their continued hostage-taking since then is a further escalation of the turkish regime's aggression against member states of the union such as greece and cyprus. the pirate blockade of the oil rig in the cypriot eez, the ambushing of a greek port vessel and others had preceded it. these actions by turkey, combined with the invasion of turkish troops in syria and the siege of the city of afrin, violate international law and demonstrate that turkey has no intention of fulfilling even the most elementary obligations arising from its status as a candidate country for accession to the union. it is necessary to suspend pre-accession financial assistance to turkey and to ban the export of european weapons systems used against civilians.
madam president, on 1 march two greek soldiers allegedly crossed the greek-turkish border by mistake and entered turkish territory in the region of thrace, which is also the border of europe. such incidents have occurred before from both countries and have always been resolved within a few hours at the administrative level. in this case, however, the soldiers were arrested, led in handcuffs and masked faces like criminals to the courts of adrianople and then to high-security prisons, where they are illegally detained without charge. this serious incident is in addition to turkey's systematic aggression against greece, its deliberate disregard for the rule of law and its conscious questioning of international law. the european union must react here and now to the extreme aggression of turkey against one of its member states. we demand that president erdoğan be obliged to maintain good neighbourly relations so that the greek soldiers can return to greece immediately.
madam president, i am both pessimistic and optimistic about brexit. i am pessimistic because i think the uk conservative government is having a hard time dealing with this and this has to do with the history of the conservative party. let us remember that thatcher was challenged by the pro-europeans, major was challenged by the anti-europeans and cameron was driven to a personal political impasse in his attempt to respond to the challenge of ukip, the anti-european challenge. so i understand the political difficulties - they are long-standing - and this also highlights the right role played by mr barnier and his colleagues, namely that of negotiating properly, honestly, efficiently and honestly in a very difficult political environment, and i think that if we are to look for a european figure around whom we can unite, this is mr barnier, rather than looking for other examples which are less bright. on the other hand, i am optimistic, because i think that the final outcome of the negotiation will not be satisfactory, so the brexit momentum will break and the brexit momentum will remain because the supporters of remain in the united kingdom are growing but they certainly do not have political expression will be strengthened. so i want us to be open-minded and open-armed towards the friends of the united kingdom, because, from what i have learned in politics and in life, never say never.
madam president, the volatile situation in the western balkans is reminiscent of the conditions that prevailed before the first world war and the balkan wars. the widespread irredentism and the open hate speech, especially by albania and the government of skopje against greece, are creating an explosive mixture, tolerated mainly by merkel and for reasons that the greeks know well. in addition to the above, erdogan's turkey is literally slaughtering kurdish civilians in afrin, having illegally invaded syrian territory. the union's policy of incitement, of ceasefire calls, of verbal condemnations, of invitations to dialogue, is not having any effect. the union is maintaining the climate through official statements, is continuing the preaccession negotiations with these countries and is financing them, rather than isolating them and imposing sanctions. but history, at least for us greeks, is not altered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
mr president, i have supported this report because i believe it builds on the reports and material that have been produced on the digital market in europe. if we received a report a few days ago, in fact weeks ago, about the sale of goods online, it is good to address the question of how goods sold online are delivered to the consumer. and it is this report that addresses the question of how to deliver goods across europe without providers raising prices just because goods are sold across borders. i consider this very important material, if we are to create a single market, then all borders within the european union must be demolished, and one of those imaginary borders is that service providers charge much higher tariffs when goods are sold and transported from one member state to another. that's why the material is good, and i supported it.
mr president, as i mentioned in my speech yesterday, thousands of turkish lorries are driving without the conditions of the law in greece and in the european union and are causing hundreds of accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. in addition, in greece there is a procedure whereby duty-free shops allow turkish trucks to be supplied at the border, at evros, at the gardens, with duty-free oil, and thus turkish trucks compete unfairly with greek professionals. this must stop and the court's decision c 590/2016, issued on 8 february 2018, must finally be implemented, forcing the greek government to stop the operation of the ppas in the areas i mentioned, namely in the gardens and other border areas of greece, and prohibiting them from supplying tax-free oil. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. it is something that we demand here and now.
this meeting will adjourn at 1:34 p.m.
mr president, the european union has repeatedly used figurative and somewhat abstract terms to describe things that are actually simple and clear: the union is a set of administrative bodies. it cannot therefore have its own resources, because it does not produce anything or offer services for a fee. what is described in the reports as union resources is nothing but revenue deducted from the national budgets or collected from the citizens of the member states. vat, for example, if it did not go to the union, or the states would have more revenue, or if they deducted the amount going to the union altogether, citizens would have a significantly lower burden. moreover, whether the benefits of the union are commensurate with the costs borne by both states and citizens is a question that is not addressed in these reports and, more importantly, has never been asked of citizens themselves. after all, are the benefits such as to justify the maintenance of a huge bureaucratic apparatus? could we have the same benefits at a much lower cost with much smaller instruments simply coordinating between states and using the existing parallel state agencies?
the budget of the union, mr president, is the expression of an outdated and counterproductive system which cannot be corrected by piecemeal interventions or by dealing only with the symptoms of distortions and not with their causes. it is utopian to think that the effects of the financial, economic and social crisis are now a thing of the past, and it is unacceptable to target political movements and political opponents through the budget. the budgetary objective is not merely a formal allocation of appropriations but remains purely theoretical. it does not lead to sustainable growth, does not adequately address existing challenges or emerging threats and exacerbates economic disparities between stronger and weaker member states. unfortunately, in a united europe, where member states are dictating their economic and fiscal policies and have now lost their full national sovereignty, the well-being of citizens is entrusted to third parties without guarantees of the sound, impartial and independent management of the resources available.
mr president, the 2019 budget is facing many challenges: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the funds available for youth unemployment are meagre. if we take into account that mr draghi has so far spent 2.5 trillion euros on quantitative easing, the sums that the european union has allocated to support youth employment really do not create any potential for significant employment, much less for countries like greece, where we are currently champions in youth unemployment and over five hundred thousand young people have emigrated. at the same time, funds must be allocated to support the region, to have regional cohesion, and finally funds for migration - support for greece, which really cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants, mr oettinger.
the situation in syria, mr president, is the most characteristic example of political and human paranoia. the human paranoia is that all the powers involved have engaged in an informal contest of inhumane attacks and bombings that directly refer to war crimes. political paranoia is shown by the fact that there is a continuous fluidity in strategic alliances, where allies for the sake of yesterday's interests, today bombard each other. europe, on the other hand, condemns assad, who is fighting the al-rahman league and jaish al-islam, which are being incited by qatar and saudi arabia respectively. but these organizations have been condemned by europe itself because its fighters have committed terrorist acts, while at the same time no one has heard a word about your friend turkey, which has illegally invaded syria and killed innocent people in afrin. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr president, seven years, 350,000 dead, 20,000 children, and the war in syria is over. a massacre caused by the war declared by the united states, nato and the european union in competition with russia and iran for control of energy sources and passageways. the euro-atlantic bloc, saudi arabia and other allies bear a great deal of responsibility for the formation and arming of isis. with the defeat of isis, competition for the spoils intensifies with an attack by turkey, threats and aggressive actions by israel. but it is not just syria. the turkish aggression in the aegean, cyprus and iraq is escalating, as is the arrest and detention of two greek soldiers, which we denounce and call for their immediate release. the forces, including the greek government, which are promoting the policy of geostrategic upgrading are speaking on behalf of large economic groups and their competition at the expense of the people. the peoples today must respond by condemning imperialist wars and interventions. no change of borders and conditions that the people will pay with their blood.
commissioner, you said that peace can be achieved by a full political agreement under the auspices of the un. either we live in another world or we describe another world. seven days ago, the most powerful institution on the planet, the un security council, decided on a ceasefire in syria to finally deliver humanitarian aid. and to this day we continue to mourn hundreds of civilians. why would you do that? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind. the european defence industries are constantly making record profits. where are they sold, commissioner? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. can the european union impose an arms embargo on the states in the region that are bombing syria, yemen and elsewhere? turkey has invaded syria and is mercilessly bombing the kurds and threatening all its neighbours. can the european union immediately impose sanctions on turkey? if you cannot - and i believe you do not want to - the second april part-session will prove to be a farce.
mr president, after the military defeat of the forces of isis in syria, many believed that peace in the region was a matter of time. unfortunately, this did not happen for two reasons: the first was because the syrian rebels were tolerated and helped to attack assad's forces, and at the same time international public opinion allowed turkey to invade afrin. so the fighting has resumed, the civilian and combat casualties have resumed, the civilians have continued to be bombed and finally the situation has got out of hand and has now become a quagmire. in order to find a solution to this problem, we must put pressure on turkey to withdraw from syria, to stop the operations in afrin and to evacuate civilians from eastern ghouta, otherwise we will be mere spectators of a situation that we cannot control. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. our support for cyprus is continuous and steadfast. of course, it is turkey that is violating international conventions, international law, attacking countries it should not attack and maintaining the occupation of part of cyprus for so many years. so we are clearly against turkey and we are clearly calling for the withdrawal of turkish troops from cyprus and for turkey to stop behaving like a pirate state in general.
mr president, the european union-cuba relations could be a new historic opportunity for both sides, provided that the european union is prepared to follow a new framework of cooperation. in the economic field, cooperation must be based on mutual benefit and fair trade. the european union should not seek to establish a new colonial regime in cuba. the people of cuba have suffered from colonialism for centuries and have shown how they react. at the political level, cooperation, peaceful coexistence, respect for national sovereignty and the principle of non-intervention in cuba's internal affairs must be strengthened. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but the defence of human rights must not be an excuse for the west to impose solutions from outside and to overturn the situation which has been and will be shaped by the cuban people themselves.
mr. chairman, mrs. mogherini, i listened very carefully to your speech. i like it, as do some of my colleagues, that you're trying to strengthen cooperation with the countries of central asia. i think this is very important because, as has been said here, today there is a growing interest of the great powers in this region and we should not leave this region to china and russia and we should be much more economically involved in this region. that's the first reason. the second reason that was also mentioned here is the issue of the danger of terrorism. if we leave central asia alone, we may in the future see that much more young jihadists are being recruited in that region, that islamic radicalism is growing there, and that is a real threat to europe. the argument of some colleagues who say that we need not be concerned about this region, that it has no impact on europe, is therefore not valid. in short, from an international security perspective, it's an area that potentially, if we don't take it seriously, could be a risk for us. so i welcome your higher activity and please continue it further.
mr president, the 13th annual ministerial meeting of the european union with the countries of central asia is indeed an interesting meeting. the european union is faced with serious problems and when we talk about the countries of central asia, we are talking about countries rich in natural gas, oil and minerals, but at the same time with poor peoples. the agenda must of course also deal with political dialogue with respect for the sovereignty of these states and peaceful coexistence, the economy, with the aim of mutual benefit and fair trade, but at the same time measures must be taken to tackle crime and corruption, to impose conditions for the implementation of labour laws, to prohibit child labour, to have environmental protection and at the same time an integrated strategy to combat jihadism and islamic extremism.
mr president, the inexpensive wishes of the european semester report for alleged wage increases are reminiscent of the joke about the fair development of syriza in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european social pillar, its social indicators, demand a further increase in retirement age, the generalization of flexible employment and mobility, i.e. migration and uprooting, a business-friendly environment - see abolition of the right to strike, where syriza is the leader in greece - abolition of collective agreements and linking wages to profits - that is, always a victim of profits - poor the unemployed, the partly employed, now poor and the fully employed with the minimum poverty income. you say 'recovery is an opportunity', i am dealing with debt, that is to say more measures and thousands of auctions in greece; free money and tax breaks for capital. fighting tax evasion ? you're being mocked! panama is exempt from tax havens. the constant pressure to respect the stability pact and the reforms, which are supposed to be the workers' affair, is a constant pressure. the workers have one cause: to organize and fight for raises and collective agreements, to overturn this policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last november at the gothenburg show we celebrated the proclamation of the european social pillar. now no more feasts and no more masks! it's time for the truth. we are in favour of the report calling for the economic policy planning of the member states to finally incorporate economic policies. the progressive groups in the european parliament have managed to improve the text considerably; we have adopted the obvious, legislation, funding to achieve the goals, as the pillar says in its preamble, that it needs to make the declaration a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr verhofstadt is tearing his clothes for europe, but let him say: how can we have social policies without legislation? the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. we are waiting for the heads of state or government to tell us on 22 march how we are going to build this europe of values, and that is where the position of each country and each party will be clear. it is there that we will see which part of society we are supporting and which is holding europe back.
mr president, the functioning of the eurozone has led to increased deficits and debts in the european south, with armies of poor and unemployed. on the other hand, germany, in breach of the stability pact, has a surplus of 8.5%. greece has become a vast social graveyard, with youth unemployment hitting the ceiling. in order for the greek people to have a future, they must abolish the memoranda, write off the humiliating debt and demand a special regime within the european union and the eurozone; a special relationship with exceptions for certain sectors of the greek economy, in order to revive the greek people, a special relationship that will lead to the recovery of national monetary sovereignty within the euro, with the bank of greece conducting an autonomous monetary policy up to the level of that bank's percentage share in the european central bank's share capital. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the european union, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training.
mr president, president trump's decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium imports is a predictable, very good move for the united states itself and its citizens. it gives priority to american industries. the union should also give priority to european citizens and not promote the emigration of european industries. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the european union, which is to be submitted to the european parliament. as for the alleged anger of european states at not being exempted from the tariff regime, almost all of them recall their statements against trump, as well as the fact that with a few exceptions, such as greece, no country in the union meets the 2% requirement for defense spending under nato. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. you must decide that the policy of globalisation, which you have served with vigor, for the interests of the multinationals is beginning to collapse.
mr president, by decision of the president of the united states, from next week additional duties on imports of steel products will be imposed at the level of 25% and 10% on aluminium products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. but this decision is creating problems in european countries as well as in the united states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these measures are particularly damaging to the greek industries concerned. at a time when the country is going through an economic crisis, the steel and aluminium industries in greece are spending large sums on investments in technology products in order to meet the demands of the markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must therefore demand that these products be excluded from the ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, trump's decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium imports should not come as a surprise. he himself, in the pre-election period and later, said that his policy was 'america first', and that means a closed economy in order to support american businesses, and he has the ability to implement this policy because the us market is a huge market and can withstand closed borders. the question is what conclusions the european union draws, which has had a free trade policy where we have allowed massive imports, cheap imports of steel products from china, which has resulted in the disintegration of the steel industry in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek steel and aluminium industries are not affected by the trump policies.
mr president, the accounts are open and the conflicting interests of the monopolies are great. over-accumulated capital that can't find a profitable outlet, a stagnant recovery, capitalist economies intertwined by power rearrangements. the unfinished agreements of capital, such as the transatlantic, the inter-pacific, the paris climate accords, show the competition of the united states, china, russia and the european union, with the special interests of germany and france. the forces of capital are competing but agree and have a common line on how to intensify exploitation at the expense of workers. the tariffs which everyone collects and which everyone finally imposes on his competitor in the interests of the profitability of his own groups are another tool of the bourgeois states with the workers at their expense. it's not just a war, not just a trade war, it has a name, and it's called capitalism, the rotten system of exploitation that is not cured, not humanized. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east.
mr president, welcome, mr prime minister, one of the many issues that will concern the european union in the future is its relationship with turkey. i would like to stress this point because it is precisely in this area that the european union has failed miserably. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it invades syrian territory unhindered, violates the eez of cyprus, arrests citizens of various countries (united states, germany, czech republic) and to release them requires that they accept its absurd demands and its last challenge is the arrest of two greek soldiers, whom it imprisoned in the high security prisons of adrianople, to blackmail greece, which is indifferent to the rest of turkey's threats. i would ask you to condemn this attitude of turkey in the strongest possible terms and to demand the immediate release of the two greek soldiers. this seemingly inexplicable behaviour of turkey has an explanation. the reason for this is that turkey has signed agreements with various countries of the european union to purchase military equipment. it has recently signed 31 such agreements with germany. with italy since 2007, under the prodi government, the delivery of military equipment to turkey was approved for a total of one billion euros. in 2016, under the renzi government, magusta delivered 51 attack helicopters to turkey, worth €134 million. but spain has similar agreements with turkey. he is building a landing craft for turkey and is likely to build or construct a juan carlos helicopter or aircraft carrier. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union must give up its cynicism and its crocodile tears over the violation of human rights in turkey. )
mr president, as i mentioned in the debate, the troika in greece has imposed a harsh tax evasion policy through the memoranda with a particularly high vat. in particular, it has introduced legislation which abolished the preferential reduced value added tax scheme in force in the aegean islands. the low value added tax has helped the economic development of the islands due to their distance from mainland greece and also due to competition from turkey, which has a particularly low vat rate. on the basis of the current situation, lesvos, chios, samos, ikaria and leros will also lose the right to reduced value added tax from 1 july 2018. these are islands affected by huge migratory flows, so the reduced vat rate must be maintained in lesvos, chios, samos, ikaria and leros, while the reduced vat rate must be reintroduced for the aegean islands.
the european semester, mr president, is a way of reducing the sovereignty of the member states. in essence, it is a tool for controlling the economic policies of the member states and at the same time a tool for enforcing the stability pact. the member states are supposed to have full powers in employment and social policy. this is also provided for by the principle of conferral of powers laid down in the treaty and by the principle of subsidiarity. at the same time, therefore, the european union's intervention does not in fact introduce a european minimum wage, a european minimum income or a minimum unemployment benefit, and the regulations it imposes with the european semester do not tackle unemployment, reduce social exclusion or achieve social justice. they keep the precarious jobs. it's a failed policy.
mr president, at the beginning of the 21st century, cyberattacks were added to the threats that had existed in various countries up to that time. although there is no universally accepted definition of cyberspace, it can be said to be made up of the entire computer, network, internet, facilities and telecommunications capacity of a state. the threats that may arise in cyberspace are attacks aimed at destroying or disrupting the operation of the above-mentioned means. because the potential of the internet is so vast, many countries view cyber warfare as an existential threat and have therefore included it in their strategic priorities. in order to meet these requirements, states must ensure that cyber defence services cooperate with each other, exchange information and, above all, carry out exercises in order to gain the necessary experience to deal with the problem.
mr president, the fight against cybercrime is an immediate necessity for the consolidation of democracy, the free movement of ideas, the protection of personal data and respect for personality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. a specific form of cybercrime is online interference in the context of an election campaign in several member states. this is how, among other things, fake profiles are created on facebook, in order to subsequently carry out cyberattacks with purely political aims and objectives. in this context, coordinated cyber attacks are being carried out with the aim of politically and morally discrediting all those whose political action disturbs the political and economic establishment. in this way, in addition to the criminal offences that are taking place, every concept of an open and democratic society is being violated, and all this, mr president, in view of the forthcoming european elections.
in writing. cybercrime is undoubtedly a major threat to today's world and it is going to concern our societies in the future. statistics show that cybercrime is increasing in intensity, complexity and size, with reported cybercrime exceeding traditional crime in some member states. in addition, around 80% of businesses in europe have experienced at least one cybersecurity breach. in a landmark example, just last may, the global wannacry cyberattack affected thousands of networks, computers, hospitals and rail lines across europe. these recent events have clearly demonstrated the eu's extremely high degree of vulnerability. the question therefore is how can we effectively tackle cybercrime in the context of cooperation at european level and how can we better protect european citizens? as rapporteur for the european parliament's report on combating cybercrime, i have tried to answer these questions and to deal with this complex legal and social issue in an effective way. the fight against cybercrime is not a simple matter, it requires high skills, continuous training and education, better coordination, cooperation with third countries and legal certainty.
madam president, there is a question for these people we are discussing today: is it a coincidence that three months after the murder of the maltese journalist we have new murders? no, it's not a coincidence. it is a result of the fact that there is fertile ground for the growth of crime. the economic oligarchy is becoming increasingly uncontrollable, tax havens still exist in europe and there is no adequate protection for journalists or whistleblowers. in my country, greece, there is a big scandal, the novartis scandal, which is being investigated, thanks to the testimony of whistleblowers, who are not even protected at european level. mr. king, i would like to ask you a question. a month ago, together with colleagues from all the political groups in parliament, we sent a letter to mr timmermans, first vice-president of the commission, asking him to protect journalists against lawsuits. daphne was a victim of that. we have no answer. any news? another short question for the commission: the current prime minister of slovakia was calling the journalists prostitútkaʼ like prostitutes. any comment, ms panayotova, about that? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, journalists and bloggers are being persecuted, both in the european union and around the world, because they are dealing with the laundry of the economic oligarchy. they bring to light what happens in tax havens. they are emerging as investigative cases around money laundering and therefore are in the spotlight. we know that daphne caruana galizia was murdered in malta, and now we have the murder of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová in slovakia, and all this is because they were investigating hard-line economic interests. in the case of slovakia, they have investigated how european money, funds relating to the common agricultural policy, was misappropriated, and even the mafia is involved. it is obvious that all these cases need to be investigated and at the same time olaf and the committee on budgetary control need to check what is happening with european funds in slovakia. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) ) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i agree with your comments that the european union must take a serious look at the squandering of european union money and community fraud, and this concerns both matters of the common agricultural policy and other funds. i have said many times in this chamber that the funds received by the various ngos must also be checked, money that is supposed to go to the refugees but does not go there. it is a big party and i had asked for olaf to intervene in all these matters, and the committee on budgetary control. i think it is up to us to check the fraud that exists at european union level around community funds.
madam president, the murder of the slovak journalist ján kuciak and his companion has brought to light many of the pathogens that exist in the political systems of certain countries of the european union. the most important of these is the corruption that exists at the highest levels of political leadership. in order to maintain its privileges, it does not hesitate to corrupt, manipulate and blackmail journalists who can expose its illegal activities. the report also calls for the immediate release of all journalists who have been detained in the country. what matters is that journalists should be left to do their job, because blackmail and attacks against them violate the principles of freedom of the press, which is a basic pillar of democracy. on the other hand, journalists must respect their job and not persecute opponents on the basis of suggestions and submissions. i hope that the blood of ján kuciak will be the last to be shed on the altar of press independence.
madam president, according to a study published yesterday by the financial times, since 2008, when the international financial crisis broke out, taxes for the largest multinational companies have fallen dramatically, while income and consumption taxes have been steadily increased in the name of consolidating public finances. the consequences of this policy are the shrinking of the middle class, the impasse of many small and mediumsized enterprises and the economic marginalization of the broader popular strata. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. the reports we are discussing, those by mr lamassoure and mr tang, are in the right direction. we thank them and they deserve our support. i think they are realistic, that is to say, they say things that are reasonable and can be carried forward, provided there is the political will, and i think the european commission's attitude is constructive. what we have to do is ask our governments to adapt to the thinking we're discussing here, because often we say it well, but in our countries of origin things are completely different.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, first of all, thank you all for this excellent debate, i do not know the vote, by definition, it will take place tomorrow. i do not want to be prejudiced but i am glad that we are moving forward together in a broadly cross-party way to call on the member states to act quickly, as they did on the intermediaries, because our fellow citizens are asking for it and it is true that this debate makes it possible to show the very broad ambition of the proposal. i would like to once again commend the work of the rapporteurs who have been able to mobilise, convince and promote the accis project throughout europe. i hear the questions that are being raised, and it is natural that such an ambitious reform should raise questions, debate ideas, but we are at the moment of political choices. it is time for europe to be ambitious in its tax reform to attract businesses, to remain globally competitive, to fight tax fraud and tax evasion and with accis we have precisely a unique answer to the concerns of both businesses and citizens and that is why this reform is so important. we are offering businesses a genuine single market with simplified, uniform rules and fair and equal conditions of competition, and we are showing citizens our determination to fight tax evasion, which is fuelled precisely by the asymmetries between national tax systems. thanks to the proposals i will make next week with your support in the future, taxation of digital businesses will also - if member states decide so - be an integral part of the accis project and so we will really have this tax architecture on corporate taxation for the 21st century that will cover the whole economy, regardless of its strata, sectors or forms. in the face of national divisions, in the face of the current administrative burdens, i believe that we have here the keystone of the modern, competitive, transparent tax system we want. i am counting on the two forthcoming presidencies, the bulgarian presidency at the moment and the austrian presidency, to complete the work. i would also like to respond to some of the points raised by members of parliament. first of all, no, this project is not an attack on the sovereignty of the member states. it is never about that in the projects we are formulating because the european commission, as you know, has no competence whatsoever, for example, on rates. it is simply a question of harmonising the conditions of operation in the single market for the benefit of businesses, and this is not just a matter for the national level, but, of course, the national level retains most of its prerogatives. of course, it is also a matter of combating tax evasion, which is facilitated by the complexities of tax borders, but here again the answer is european. ms joly returned to the use of article 116 to deal with distortions of competition in the internal market. i do not think that it can be used as a legal basis for a legislative proposal like accis, but you know that the european commission is thinking about how to return to this question of unanimity in tax matters, which we find is indeed at the very least a source of complexity, especially when we have such ambitious projects. finally, on the question of whether there is a basis for a future own resource or on the question of tax rates or tax harmonization, i repeat: by creating a common base, we are undoubtedly moving towards fiscal convergence. tax harmonization, which is an ambition i share, also depends in this context on the will of the member states, because there is no going back on tax sovereignty. i do not think there is an additional tax burden here - at any rate it is not included in the proposal - and so i think that, with all the sensitivities that are expressed here, you can move with confidence towards the common consolidated corporate tax base which is compatible with much of the views i have heard here. moreover, the rapporteurs do not seem to me to be necessarily from the same political families, and yet they have done extremely close work, since we have here a proposal which can really bring together because it is a question of modernising, of making our tax systems transparent, of combating aggressive tax optimisation. this extremely powerful tool is in your hands and as usual i believe that parliament and the commission have done a good job and that by your vote tomorrow you will show that you are standing with us and asking the member states to move forward with the same strength and the same ambition.
in writing. tax dumping and aggressive tax planning are a daily occurrence in the european union. the netherlands of dijsselbloem, luxembourg of juncker and malta are countries which provide tax avoidance incentives to the various multinationals. so aggressive tax planning is essentially the second nature of the european union, since the eu itself wants to create grey areas through unfair tax competition between member states. it is time at european level to create a fair tax system with a common corporate tax base, without grey areas, to stop the tax dumping of multinational companies and tax their profits in the countries where they are made. in addition, all the legislative 'windows' that legitimize the practice of intra-family transactions and lead to tax evasion that deprive state budgets of huge tax revenues should be closed. but there is no need for hypocrisy, since the ecofin council unanimously removed panama from the blacklist of tax havens. the key to tackling tax evasion and avoidance in the eu is therefore in the council, where important decisions have to be taken. but there are member states which not only do not want to see concrete measures taken but are completely blocking the necessary decisions.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure.1 the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 15 march 2018. 1 see minutes
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on corporate social responsibility.
mr president, corporate social responsibility means that companies should be taxed where they make their profits. and of course that's not the case, because the multinationals are taking advantage of tax havens, and so they're evading taxes, they're evading taxes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but of course this is also confirmed by ecofin, which with its recent decision of 23 january removed panama from the list of tax havens, and this with the agreement of the greek government, mr tsakalotos, and yesterday it continued the same thing: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the member states. is it possible that this situation can continue? - what ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. having received european union money, they are now relocating to other areas, leaving thousands of people unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by thomas mann and svetoslav hristov malinov, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a common framework for the provision of better services for skills and occupational qualifications (europass) and repealing decision no 2241/2004/ec (com (2016) 0625 - c8-0404/2016 - 2016/0304 (cod)) (a8-0244/2017)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, at first sight the europass seems to be a simple tool where qualifications, skills and competences can be collected, identified and communicated, so that there is a better link between those seeking education and work and those providing them. however, it is known that the tools are not neutral or autonomous, but implement specific policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europass is therefore called upon to support and provide technical support for the european union's neoliberal policies on education and employment. so what will be the center of gravity of this platform that will be created? will it be to facilitate the search for work and to ensure decent and quality jobs? will it be the promotion of all-round education and intellectual cultivation? i'm afraid it won't be. the aim will be to create a collection of sterile pieces of knowledge, ready to be assembled according to the demands of the market and the prevailing economic interests. a skills auction that will act as a means of pressuring wages down and worsening working conditions, since we'll have high skills with low wages. in this context, the instrumental and utilitarian approach to education is being further strengthened. the economic crisis, unemployment, insecurity, disadvantaged work and the migration of young people, especially from greece and the south, are not due to a lack of tools or a mismatch between the skills offered and those required. it is the result of the neoliberal policies of the european union and the way it works.
mr president, i should like to point out that according to the agenda, as i see it, the debate will end at 10.30 a.m., so do not be alarmed. we're not gonna make it by midnight, i can tell from the computer system. in any case, the european union, after having created millions of unemployed, millions of poor people through its policy of austerity and forced fiscal adjustment, is now giving them the europass, the great solution. but europass is a europass for informal forms of work. it is a europass for part-time work. it is europass for rotational employment. the european union has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the treaty on european union, and the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the treaty on european union. it is a europass for immigration. five hundred thousand greeks have left my country because of the memorandum. i therefore do not think that europass solves the real problem of unemployment.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs costa, and commissioner navracsics, for ensuring the continuity and the valuable activity of the european youth orchestra. i think it is important, mr president, that the creative europe programme is being discussed in the same week as the future of the european budget is being shaped. i am therefore very sorry to note that, despite the great words that are constantly being heard about european culture, its funding amounts to only 0.15% of the total budget. it is therefore necessary, others have said, to ensure that the funding of the programme is substantially increased after 2020. i would like to conclude this brief intervention by referring to the need to support music. only 3% of the programme is devoted to supporting, and above all, of course, classical music. but music is a truly international language, uniting peoples and cultures, and supporting its diverse forms should be our priority. it is positive that the music moves europe initiative was launched in february, and i hope that it will be integrated into the programme for stable funding.
mr president, i think mrs costa's report on the creative europe programme 2014-2020 touches on the issues that should concern the house, because it is first and foremost an important initiative, which concerns culture. the european union youth orchestra, which has so far shown a particularly interesting activity, deserves special mention. but the orchestra must be open to other conceptions and problems and thoughts of cultural heritage and music and at the same time it must be representative of all states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. we must support young artists, we must support music, theatre, books, films. the european union must be able to move forward in the direction of civilization.
mr president, the comoros is a complex of three volcanic islands situated between madagascar and africa. these are poor islands with 850,000 inhabitants, low gdp and of course rich fish stocks, especially tuna and swordfish, and it is a given that at the moment there is indeed illegal and illegal fishing and flag-waving and therefore the agreement with the european union is not being respected. but we have to ask ourselves: firstly, what was the added value of this agreement between the european union and the comoros? could this agreement help the poor local populations? the european union has a strong position in this cooperation, as the un has said, and finally, what will happen to koreans, japanese and chinese who fish illegally in this area? finally, we must bring order, but the european union must also bring order against those who are powerful and who violate the rules and fish in this area. and i'm talking about chinese, japanese and korean. something has to be done about them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the hard reality is that importing mineral resources from conflict areas often costs less than adopting circular economy reforms. the practices of extracting and marketing them for the purpose of obtaining a profitable profit are directly linked to the detriment of morality and human dignity. the commission should at least implement the half-measures already adopted, including by promoting the inclusion of miners under the rule of law and by drawing on the oecd and un guidelines and principles on supply chain due diligence requirements and labour and human rights.
madam president, africa is a rich continent with vast reserves of oil, gas, minerals and minerals, but its people are suffering. they are poor, they are unemployed, and that is because the minerals, the diamonds, the gold are exploited by the multinationals, which have superprofits, and of course where there is wealth there is also a field of conflict to seize it. so there are war zones, civil war zones, where there is really exploitation of minerals and there is child labour. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i believe that intervention is defined for 2021. it's pretty late. there are half-measures. i think we must take measures which are not only related to the import of minerals but also to the import of finished products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and of course there has to be decisive intervention to stop the conflict in those areas.
madam president, it is well known that gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum are minerals which are used to produce high-tech products. the problem is that these minerals are mined in areas mainly in africa where there are conflicts, there are civil wars, there are regimes that are corrupt, that oppress the people, that use their people, mostly violating their human rights, as workers and they get large sums of money, which they do not spend on the well-being of their people but on buying weapons and continuing the wars for control of these areas. in this sense, it is very appropriate for the european union to intervene in order to find a way of making legislation which will help to prevent this uncontrollable situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are respected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are respected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. it is a given that there is now a total commitment of europe to fossil fuels and that means increased pollution. we have seen what has happened with dieselgate, which has shaken the confidence of the consumers themselves. the question is whether we have options, and those options are, of course, gas, hydrogen and electricity. but there will be problems, because there is a need for investment in, say, substantial research to create batteries that can actually charge electric cars without problems, and above all there is a need for charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the maldives is a well-known tourist destination, but there the violation of fundamental rights is now on the agenda. we have an authoritarian regime of president yameen, who has even taken advantage of the fact that he has declared a state of emergency and thus has now silenced his political opponents, bloggers, journalists. but the supreme court in the maldives has decided to reinstate at least a dozen mps and give them their seats and to quash various criminal prosecutions against political opponents of the regime. it's something that president yameen doesn't like and he wants to get involved in the supreme court. it is obvious that in this country the influence of isis is now growing, sharia is being applied, those with other religious beliefs are being persecuted. the arbitrariness of the regime must finally come to an end.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union is looking with growing concern at the human rights situation in sudan, in particular, at freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. the nationwide protests against the rising commodity prices, which started earlier this year, have been met with an excessive use of force by the authorities. in recent months, we have witnessed a surge in arrests and detention of, among others, human rights defenders, journalists, student activists and members of the opposition, including leaders of political parties. media freedom has deteriorated further, with seizures of several newspapers. among those arrested is mr salih mahmoud osman, a well-known sudanese human rights lawyer and the laureate of the 2007 sakharov prize. despite the release of dozens of detainees in mid-february, a move which the eu welcomed, more than 100 remain in detention. the eu delegation in khartoum is doing its utmost to keep an updated logbook of all those detained. specific cases of concern, like that of mr salih, are closely monitored and systematically raised in meetings with the sudanese authorities. the eu delegation in khartoum has also met the families of those detained as well as the sudanese human rights commission, whose work it continues to support. moreover, numerous eu local statements have been issued, urging the government of sudan to respect freedom of expression and to release all political detainees. furthermore, on 27 february, the eu special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, called for respect for due process for all human rights defenders in sudan, including mr salih, in his speech at the un human rights council. i would like to thank parliament for its continued engagement, illustrated not only by today’s debate, but also for the recent statement issued by vice—president hautala and pier antonio panzeri, chair of the subcommittee on human rights, calling for the release of mr salih as well as the visit of the subcommittee on human rights to sudan last december. the protection and promotion of human rights remains at the core of the eu’s engagement with sudan, and we will continue to staunchly condemn all abuses and support brave human rights defenders.
madam president, i rise to protest that you did not give me the floor at the catch-the-eye. the fact that you have run out of time, because you allow the speakers to speak at least fifteen seconds more, is your problem and it should not be to the detriment of the speakers. i have asked for the floor in good time, and all the more so because i have signed this resolution, and i ask that next time you do not be discriminated against by the ecr.
madam president, it is really very hard to believe what is happening in uganda. and yet it does! it's not in dispute. that is, they murder newborn or older children because they are disabled; other families abandon them, leave them to die. and these murderous practices are called "euthanasia"! these murderous practices must not only be condemned but also punished, because there is a taboo in uganda: to consider it a disgrace to have a child who is disabled in a family. i think that a strong condemnation is needed, and that the european union should intervene in this matter. and of course there's no evidence, because no one mentions it; because they see it as a practice that happens. well, this has to stop and the ugandan government must be condemned immediately.
mr president, the issue of global warming and, more generally, all the environmental challenges we face are extremely important problems. our firm and uncompromising position is that we support any initiative, move or agreement aimed at protecting the environment. the paris agreement is a step in the right direction, even if we disagree on some of its individual elements. it is extremely positive that the total area of land in europe covered by forests has increased considerably, but certain member states are facing problems. for example, due to global warming and the ongoing desertification of large parts of north africa, there has been a sharp increase in recent years in the occurrence of dust clouds from the sahara in greece, which cause problems for the health of citizens, as concentrations of dangerous heavy metals such as lead, zinc and arsenic have been detected in them. there is also a dramatic increase in forest fires due to the rise in temperature, which in turn contribute to the destruction of large areas of forest and crops. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disproportionately restricted to the farmers of europe, because the only thing we can do is to reduce european agricultural production while at the same time importing agricultural products at a lower price from countries with much lower environmental standards. i believe that there should be serious restrictions on imports of agricultural products from countries outside the union, as only in this way will we be able to protect the environment by requiring these countries to adopt equally strict environmental standards.
mr president, the paris agreement on climate change is an important agreement because it protects the environment, and at a time when we are experiencing particularly adverse effects, not only in the world but also in greece, where we are now experiencing the dangerous dust cloud from the sahara which has caused many problems in my country. it is therefore clear that measures must be taken, but in such a way as to support both the eradication of poverty and the rights of the indigenous people, of course, because there must be no seizure of their land and there must be protection of the forests from fires, since the forests are an oxygen lung. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the over-production of cereals. i believe that forests cannot be destroyed to create biomass. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty, requires, among other things, an increase in the capacity to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change. to achieve negative emissions, accounting systems for land use, land use change and forestry must be sound. as removals through this sector are reversible, it should be considered as a separate pillar in the framework of union and national climate policies. in addition, good forest management must be accompanied by a commitment to halt and reverse deforestation and promote reforestation. the environment is the main area of political consensus and is directly linked to the sustainability of our planet and the continuity of the human species.
the circular economy is a way of reducing pressure on the planet's resources and raw materials, of reducing energy expenditure and ultimately of contributing to the fight against climate change. but - and vice-president timmermans is not here - we are not all protagonists. i come from a country which, along with nine others, has been given an extension to comply with the framework for sanitary landfills. however, the forecast that by 2030 all recyclable waste will no longer be landfilled and that there will be a single way of valuing sanitary landfills helps to adapt. but we need to change the habits of citizens, we need to change the orientation of local government representatives, and here i will speak of a great example from vilnius, lithuania, where the creation of a biomass and municipal waste power plant was funded, together with the juncker plan, together with the cohesion fund, for more than 300 million euros in total. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one. practically it means reuse and recycling. the economic benefits are worth eur 1.8 trillion, creating 2 million jobs, increasing the competitiveness of the european economy, and boosting innovation and research. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is recycled, that it is not generated, that food and marine waste are reduced. at the same time, of course, we must put an end to the disgrace of the landfills, the so-called 'healthy landfills', and i am thinking in particular of the toxic function of the landfill in the race. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is recycled and that the health of the population in general and of the people of attica in particular is protected from the carcinogenic landfill of fyla.
madam president, because of global warming many raw materials, many natural resources on which we depend, are gradually beginning to be depleted and if this problem is not identified quickly, then there will be a shortage in a few years. the circular economy is therefore very important because it also helps to protect the environment and therefore the survival of the planet. but to be able to achieve this, we have to use the different products under a circular system of development which means using one product, recycling it and recalling another corresponding product. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is contrary to the interests of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste by incineration is a very good one. there are countries like greece that send 75% of their waste to landfills, as they say, polluting the environment, the sea, the water, the food chain. in my country, the central governments, past and present, and the regional authorities insist on creating landfills and even mixed waste, destroying the environment and polluting the watershed. there is no landfill in greece that is not in trouble. lives are at stake in the tribe. there is toxic marine pollution on kateryna; in shamoth he was cast into the sea; in lechim he was built upon a water-bearing horizon. as we speak, residents in aegalya have blocked the area's landfill, which has been operating without a permit since 2015. it is clear that a country like greece, which recycles 17% of its waste, cannot meet the intermediate target, so it is urgently necessary to adopt the landfill zero act and also needs increased assistance from the european union, as do countries that are generally lagging behind in waste management.
madam president, the seventh environmental action programme is very important and of course we must focus on protecting public health and food safety. i would like to ask you, mr vella, about a serious matter, the question of imports of agricultural products from third countries, and in particular the question of imports of agricultural products from turkey. these agricultural products are grown without any protection and without the rules on banned pesticides and fertilisers being applied, so there is a serious question of how to ensure consumer protection. should not additional plant health checks be carried out on these dangerous agricultural products imported into the european union from turkey? it is a serious matter, because we cannot just enforce rules within the european union, as we rightly do, but we can also have turkish agricultural products grown with pesticides that do not meet the standards and give them to consumers here in the european union.
madam president, it is a given that women's voices are not heard in the media. the debate and evidence has shown that there are a limited number of women in managerial positions in the media. the pay they receive is lower than that of men and women are certainly not playing the role they should in the media, which affects, as we have heard, both the content and the processes in the media themselves. but we have to address the central issues about the media, which are their control by the oligarchs, the lack of pluralism, the fake news. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european elections is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. in this way we will contribute to pluralism and of course we support all measures in favour of women in the media.
madam president, the development cooperation mechanism, the humanitarian aid instrument and the european development fund are important instruments in that they help to reduce poverty, hunger and unemployment. that's the key. do we have an evaluation report? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the report by mr denanot really touches on the serious issue of food security, because it has been shown that protein crops and rose crops are not as developed as they should be in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the soya beans are not genetically modified, and that the european parliament is not only responsible for the genetically modified soya beans, but also for the genetically modified soya beans. at the same time, china is using a different strategy, it has concluded an exclusive - essentially opaque - agreement with brazil, it is investing in production infrastructure, in port transport and in this way it is competing, i would say, to a large extent unfairly, with the european union. we must follow the recommendations of the report by mr denanot.
the debt problem of developing countries is crucial to their development. we have in africa certain countries where the public debt is up to 48 percent of gdp, in ethiopia it's going to be over 50 percent, we have new players who are lending, we have a new role for china. the report is elaborating and correctly stating that we need a debt adjustment, we need debt restructuring to bring about growth. we are arguing that, firstly, there should be the possibility of an audit of the debt, secondly, there should be a recommendation from the international court of justice for debt restructuring, thirdly, there should be a tax evasion strike, fourthly, the creditor should be liable if the loan has not been approved by the national parliament, fifthly, there should be the possibility of debt cancellation and finally, mr mimica, if these principles are important, should they not also apply to the regulation and cancellation of debt within the european union? there is a debt of greece which is odious, because mr dijsselbloem himself has admitted that the debt that greece has taken on, the loans it has received, were used not to save the greek economy but to save greece's lenders, to save the main shareholders of foreign banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president of the french republic, i too welcome you to the european parliament. in a recent television interview, you said that you convinced president trump not to withdraw american troops from syria. you also ordered your country's air force to take part in the hollywood-directed intervention in syria. i would like to ask you whether your participation in this operation, which was a failure in every respect and mainly military, has achieved what you wanted to achieve, or has it provoked the anger of the arabs to attack with more fury against the french troops in chad and mali? and finally, why are you still holding talks with turkey? the question is not exclusion, but the question of allowing turkey to be consistent with its european obligations.
mr president, i welcome the president of france and i shall speak in greek to a european parliament in which we are not only french and germans but also greeks, italians and spaniards from countries on the frontiers of europe who are paying the price for decisions on military interventions taken without a european plan and without consultation. mr macron, we welcome your efforts to make europe stronger, but do you have any concrete proposals for economic governance? after ten years of imposing tough and governmental solutions, you have a great responsibility for the future. would you support a role for the european parliament in a european monetary fund? would you support a european defence in which the south was not just a good customer of the north and a well-paid employee? mr macron, in greece we have a governmental cooperation without ideological barriers - something that happens in other countries too, of course, what do you think should be the ideological antidote to this? what do you think, what is the political family in your opinion that we can start to go forward together, with principles and values that are truly progressive?
mr president, mr macron, the greek people listened with interest to your speech on the future of europe on pnyx hill in athens in early september 2017. mr macron, turkey is increasing its aggression against greece every day, violating the territorial waters of my country, violating greek airspace; erdoğan is demanding changes to the treaty of lausanne, threatening greece with war, illegally imprisoning two greek soldiers. i would therefore like to ask you, mr macron, whether the french republic intends to conclude with greece a defence cooperation agreement, a military assistance agreement with greece in the event of an attack by turkey against greece, a french commitment to provide assistance and to protect the greek borders, which are also european borders, and all this here and now, because turkish threats against greece are increasing every day.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at previous meetings we adopted what i consider to be the most important euro-mediterranean research and innovation initiative to date, focusing on agri-food systems and water supply and management, involving 19 countries. having already approved the scientific and technological cooperation agreements with algeria, egypt and jordan at the plenary session of 30 november 2017, i welcome the proposal of the european commission for the corresponding agreement with lebanon and invite you to give your consent to enable participation in prima as soon as possible.
mr president, the resolution on the restructuring of the debt of developing countries is also important because it sets out certain principles. firstly, it supports the audit of debt and secondly it does not recognise debt which has been incurred without the approval of the parliaments of the member states and developing countries. it also supports the establishment of an international court for debt restructuring. this means that these basic principles must be applied to the debt restructuring of developing countries. but the same must be true of the public debt within the euro area, and in particular of greece's debt, a debt which is odious, a debt which has not served the needs of the greek people, since, on the contrary, as mr dijsselbloem admitted in a question i put to him, greece went into debt with all the memoranda and loan agreements in order to rescue foreign creditors, to rescue foreign banks.
mr president, social and economic cohesion is a key process in supporting the regions of the european union. this means concrete measures and there can be no such support when the troika and the commission, as a member of the troika, impose an increased value added tax on the aegean islands, a tax of up to 24%. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. at the same time, however, greece, which has been dissolved by the memoranda, should be able to obtain a special status within the european union, a special relationship, with regulations and exceptions for a certain period of time, in certain sectors such as energy, shipbuilding, tourism, the primary sector, transport, in order to recover the greek economy under this special regime.
mr president, the situation in the aegean islands is escalating. there are now increased refugee and migration flows. the situation is worse than last year and of course we have too many illegal immigrants. the aegean islands cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. at the same time, we are also seeing a flow of migrants from the evros side, on the land borders between greece and turkey. i think we must therefore see the need to re-establish the relocation process, because the previous programme was only implemented by one third as compared to greece, germany had to take in 17,209 people for relocation and took in only 4,447. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe, to help the people of europe.
mr president, the european union is leading the way in the global un consensus and is claiming to defend and demand security, migration, solidarity with refugees and states, and a human-centred approach to the refugee issue. at the same time, it pays turkey to keep refugees locked up and funds it to buy armored vehicles to prevent them from reaching europe, in knowing violation of the geneva convention on refugees and the european treaties. it tolerates the fact that its member states close their borders, refuse to accept refugees and block the necessary revision of the dublin regulation, and not only does it not condemn but sympathizes with france and britain, which bombed syria the day before yesterday, in defiance of these un institutions, with the risk of creating new waves of refugees. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. what is the common european position on refugees? that's all i need you to tell me.
mr president, while the united states of america, together with france and the united kingdom, is bombing syria, with the full support of the european union and nato, the european union, and with the un accords in the making, is pretending to be the guardian of the rights of the refugees torn apart by the bombings, its own and its allies. call the authorities. your principles are the bombings, the blockade of the greek islands, the miserable living conditions of thousands of refugees, the competition for quotas, the fast-track deportations, the thousands of pending family reunifications. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we demand human reception and accommodation, we demand their release from the greek islands and the mainland and we demand that they be able to travel to their final destination countries. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation.
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 april 2018.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2018/2673 ((rsp)).
mr president, we join our voices with the peoples who condemn the bombings of the united states, france and britain. with the blood and the uprooting of the people the imperialists are drawing new borders; the european union and its reformist macron, with their allies, are bombing, while the european parliament, with the same over-played tape of chemical weapons protests, is lying as has been proved in iraq, libya. the reason for this is that the competition for the control of energy and markets by the monopolies is intensifying despite your diplomacy and your time-consuming operations against the people. the syriza-anel government, an active participant with bases like souda, apologizes to imperialism for chemical weapons! what irony! it is a very serious matter, and i think that the commission should be aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the truth is that the real superpower is the people, and their most decisive struggle is against the rotten exploitative system, with the aim of breaking free from the european union and nato.
mr štětina, you have a blue card from mr hadjigeorgiou. do you accept it?
from mr hadjigeorgiou.
mr. štětina, i preside, i make the rules. i think you have an obligation to answer. whoever's asking you here is an elected representative of the people. if you are a democrat, as you claim to be, you must answer. will you answer the question of a member of parliament who is elected as you are? - yes or no ?
i'll take that. you have the right to refuse the question, but it also shows how much you accept that your arguments can withstand criticism.
madam president, in syria the intervention of foreign forces, the terrorist action of isis and the civil war have literally torn the country apart. they have led to thousands of deaths and millions of refugees. they have destroyed the syrian economy and society. they gave the opportunity to third arab countries, like iran and saudi arabia, to resolve their religious and other differences there. at the same time, the united states, britain, france, russia and turkey are competing to share the spoils in syria, seizing every resource producing resource in the country. the political problem in syria must be solved diplomatically, peacefully, away from the use of force. the recent missile attacks by the west, due to the alleged use of chemical weapons, are not going to solve the problem. the same applies to syriza's crocodile tears of anti-war sentiment, while the syriza-anel government is facilitating the us to carry out missile strikes in syria.
madam president, i am concerned and concerned about the situation in my country's neighbourhood in the eastern mediterranean, because these events usually create a chain reaction. the former superpowers, after the end of the world wars, went on to create the un, nato and then the european union, under the pretext of "no more war", "no more misery and refugee children" and many others. but the tragic results in iraq, libya and afghanistan have demonstrated beyond doubt that in countries where the great powers installed puppet leaders to serve their interests, when they rose up, they were met with war, destruction, suffering and rivers of blood. but the attempt to apply the same recipe to syria with isis has been met with a backlash from russia and assad. the brutal interventions in syria have created hundreds of dead of all ages, homeless, refugees, untold destruction to ancient monuments and left the country in ruins. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the speech today by the reformer of the european union, french president macron, on syria was a monument of provocative cynicism. 'we bomb whomever and whenever we want, without anyone's authorisation,' he said, responding to those who, naively or intentionally, claim that un or parliamentary decisions legitimize imperialist crimes with thousands of dead refugees, fuelling a general inflammation for their interests. the reliability of the warheads is exactly the same as that of the iraqi nukes that were never found. congratulations from nato, the european union, the majority in the european parliament, all governments without exception, such as that of syriza-anel, and the other bourgeois parties that as nato flag-bearers entrust the protection of greece from turkish aggression to such butchers that erdoğan congratulates them for their intervention in syria. dirty alternate alliances against the people! in the face of the barbarity of war, of the poverty of the people, there is no other time. all the peoples of europe on the road against governments, the european union, imperialism and capitalism!
in writing. who is finally shaping and what is the european union's common position on syria? two heads of state, without any semblance of legitimacy and in violation of any concept of international law, decide to bomb syria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. global nuclear powers are exchanging threats via twitter, the tragic results of the global deception over iraq's chemicals are fresh and instead of the european union playing a peacemaker role, it is being driven by the micro-political and geopolitical interests of some member states. today mr macron has called for the destruction of syria's chemical weapons. i answer him directly: just as strongly as anyone else's use of chemicals is condemned, so strongly and even more strongly is his own uncharacteristic decision, which directly endangers the safety of european citizens. i answer you: we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report.
madam president, i would point out that the european union's relations with russia are a depository of absurdity, fluidity and contradiction. as you have said, on the one hand, russia is considered by the european union as a strategic partner with whom it should discuss, but not all issues, but only selected ones. the european union supports nato in its attempt to strategically encircle russia, but denies russia the right to react accordingly. the european union considers it its right to support civil society in russia, but it denies russia the same right in eu countries. i could give many examples of this, but i will conclude by saying that real trust and cooperation are built when both parties are willing to cooperate, are honest, want to solve problems and, above all, want to convince each other that they are not a threat to each other.
mr president, the admittedly good mood displayed by the leader of north korea in the talks on his country's nuclear programme is encouraging, but it is confirmed that we will not have the desired result quickly and easily. it should not be lost sight of the fact that the pace of development of this programme has been accelerated by two main fears of the north korean leader. one is for himself and his regime and the other is for the survival of his country, which he considers to be in danger primarily from the us and secondarily from china and the other neighbors of the korean peninsula. based on this reality, it is utopian to think that we will have complete denuclearization of the korean peninsula. kim jong-un will not be persuaded to curtail his nuclear activities unless he is certain that neither he nor his country is in danger. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the peninsula is not so bad as it is today.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, 48 days later, a normal border incident between greece and turkey has turned into a peculiar situation of political hostage-taking, a political hostage-taking that abolishes all notions of the rule of law, democracy, justice and good neighbourly relations. the turkish prisoners include two greek officers, a german journalist of turkish origin who has been held for more than a year and a half, and an american pastor who is now on trial on serious charges. all of these people have been held without evidence, without trial, without apology, without indictment. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-refoulement, and we are convinced that the european union must be able to take action to prevent the further detention of the two greek officers. i did not return with optimism but with deep reflection. forty-eight days later, the turkish president is flagrantly ignoring europe. but there is no such thing as an à la carte accession process, without the rule of law, without democracy, with a state of emergency, with arrests and persecutions. there is no accession process with verbal provocations, with aggressive actions, with violations of airspace, with violations of territorial waters, with violations of the exclusive economic zone of member states of the european union, such as greece and cyprus. forty-eight days later, europe is showing its full solidarity with greece and the two greek military prisoners. it's time for the turkish president to surprise us positively. it is time to proceed immediately with the release of the greek officers. ladies and gentlemen, we are not optimistic but we hope that mr erdoğan and turkey will do their duty to the international community and to the law.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, in discussing immigration we have referred to the need for better protection of europe's borders. these two greek soldiers were arrested doing just that, guarding the european borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the citizens of the member states. let's not kid ourselves. it is not a bilateral issue but a behaviour which affects euro-turkish relations as a whole. we know very well what mr erdoğan is after. the case of the german journalist deniz yücel is very recent, as are the continuing violations of greek airspace by turkish fighter jets, and of course the blocking of drilling in the cypriot eez. i was elected by the greek people to the european parliament to convey their agonies. so i feel obliged to tell you what is being discussed all over greece: what is the european union prepared to do to ensure our sovereign rights? what is the european union prepared to do to put an end to the illegal detention of the two greek soldiers and to put an end to the unjust adventure they are going through?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the greek people's demand for the immediate release of the two greek soldiers who have been illegally detained for 48 days in the turkish high security prison in adrianople is being discussed for the second time here in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. on 12 march, after my speech here in the house, the president of the house, mr tajani, expressed the solidarity of all of us with the two soldiers and took a concrete initiative to secure their release. and yet, despite the decision of the european council on 23 march and the pressure exerted by the european union on erdoğan at the varna meeting, our two soldiers remain in turkish prisons without even being charged, in breach of the european convention on human rights. erdoğan and the turkish leadership must face up to their responsibilities, they must be told that they must immediately release the two greek soldiers or face economic and other sanctions. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international law and the principles of good neighbourliness and to stop the threats against greece. the declaration of support by emmanuel macron for greece against turkish threats, in response to my intervention in this regard this morning here in the european parliament's plenary, sends a decisive message to erdoğan that turkey is now treading dangerous paths.
mr president, the continued detention of the two greek soldiers by turkey shows that turkey is violating international law and the rules of good neighbourliness. according to the official announcement, the two soldiers, due to limited visibility, mistakenly entered a few meters into turkish territory and there were arrested and are still being held without being charged. it should be noted that, at the time of their arrest, they were wearing their uniforms and apparently their insignia and rank insignia. turkey should not only refrain from arresting them, since we are in a period of peace, but, as has been done by both sides in similar cases, it should return them immediately to greece after a short procedure. even if we had a wartime, they would just be taken as prisoners but not tried. but turkey uses the practice of arresting citizens of foreign countries, using them as hostages and thus blackmailing their countries. it's a sad and despotic process, a relic of the ottoman empire. the european union must demand the immediate release of the two greek soldiers and must cut off all communication with turkey. he must force it to behave like a civilized state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european people's party at its meeting last month was briefed in detail on the issue of the detention of the two greek soldiers by the president of the new republic, kyriakos mitsotakis. the european council then strongly condemned turkey's illegal actions and called on it to respect good neighbourly relations and human rights, with explicit reference to our military. in this context, the european people's party has accepted my proposal and i thank my greek colleagues from all political groups who helped bring the matter to the house's plenary. the continued detention of greek soldiers is part of a conscious and deliberate escalation of turkey's aggressive policy against my country, in violation of international law, the treaty of lausanne and by directly challenging greek sovereignty over the aegean islands. this situation cannot continue. the greek military are european citizens and greece is a member state of the european family. in my country, today more than ever, there is a need to demonstrate the support of the european union and all the member states in solidarity and in action. we call now, here and now, immediately, for turkey to be forced to release the two greek soldiers, whom it has illegally deprived of their liberty for 48 days, by holding them in maximum security prisons without charge.
mr president, a series of tragic events highlights the disproportionate burden that greece bears on europe's borders in the face of open turkish aggression. the escalation continues on land, with the kidnapping of greeks, at sea, with the constant contestation of islands, in the air, with constant aerial violations that put the lives of our heroic pilots at risk every day. we are trying, despite our poor economic situation, to shoulder our share of the burden at the frontiers of europe, including the proper maintenance of our aircraft and ships. i would like to ask you first of all to send a strong and clear message as to what is and is not acceptable from the european union at our borders. secondly, an assessment of the operational needs and the strategic situation in the mediterranean must be made, but proposals for action in the event of a heat event are also needed. thirdly, we need legal and political support in cases similar to those of our military, since there are other prisoners from other countries, and fourthly, we need a proposal for possible preventive measures, diplomatic or economic, and gradual sanctions against turkey.
mr president, the european parliament today sends a strong, clear and unanimous message to the leadership of erdogan: complete the judicial process immediately, release the two greek soldiers immediately! this is not just a requirement of greece, it is a requirement of the whole european union: of the european parliament, the commission and the council. i welcome the cooperation of all the political groups which has led to a joint resolution which we shall adopt on thursday by an overwhelming majority, sending a strong message. we want peace, we want good neighbourliness, but this requires respect for the rules and for international law and the rule of law and cannot be based on eastern bargaining and blackmail, in the absence of the rule of law and international law. i pledge that we will not stop our fight until the two greek officers are returned free to our homeland, to the greek army and to their families. i am also expecting the commission and the council to coordinate their action with parliament by exerting all the necessary pressure and taking all the necessary measures.
mr president, the unacceptable detention of the two greek soldiers by the turkish authorities, which has been extended for 47 days, is part of a series of moves which signal an escalation of the turkish bourgeoisie's aggression against the sovereign rights of greece, by calling into question the borders and international treaties which guarantee them. aggression which concerns bourgeois class rivalries for their own interests, is directed against peoples, is part of wider rivalries that are escalating, as evidenced by the military offensive in syria the day before yesterday by the united states, france, britain with the support of nato and the european union, which with military interventions change borders, bloodshed peoples. the position of the syriza-anel government and the other bourgeois parties, who entrust the protection of greece to nato, which blames its hands for the situation in the aegean and the fate of the two military men, and to the european union, which also encourages the provocations of the turkish bourgeoisie by bargaining with it, is dangerous. the european union is also calling for the immediate and unconditional release and repatriation of the two greek soldiers.
mr president, since the european parliament is the voice of its people, it is necessary that this voice be heard as loudly as possible, as firmly as possible, on the subject of the two greek soldiers. their story seems incredible: for almost two months now, they have been held without any specific charges, without any indication of their future in turkey's maximum security prisons. it seems that this country thinks it can intervene and conquer foreign territories, such as cyprus or syria, but it reacts with cruelty because two people were misled and entered a few meters into its own territory. but in reality it is not just these young people who have been wrongfully imprisoned. the idea of justice and law, democracy and dialogue, which should have been the rule in relations between states, has been imprisoned along with them. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the middle east. it is a positive development, however, and shows a way forward, that the greek government's actions have been joined by the leaders of the european commission and the council. in this case at least, it seemed justified to invoke a great greek poet of justice: "sun of understanding and myrrh of praise, do not please forget my country!" the european parliament's voice must therefore be loud and uncompromising.
mr president, the incident which took place on the greek-turkish border at the beginning of march, with the arrest of two greek soldiers by the turkish authorities and the decision of the turkish judiciary to detain them without charge, demonstrates the strategy of tension which turkey is adopting towards greece, which is having a negative impact on good neighbourly relations. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish government is committed to the development of the turkish economy. it is noteworthy that part of the turkish press hastened to frame the two soldiers' guilt on the charges of illegal entry into a restricted zone and espionage. given that, firstly, turkey has been continuously condemned for the flagrant violation of human rights against turkish and foreign nationals by the european court of human rights and secondly, that by prolonging the state of emergency which has as its consequence the continuation of mass arrests and persecutions, it is proved that there is no rule of law but a continuous slip to authoritarian and totalitarian practices, we demand the contribution of the institutions of the european union for the immediate release of the two greek military europeans, without delay, without pretrial hearings and without explanatory statements.
i am sorry that mrs mogherini is not here to hear us today, but i will not repeat the facts, we all know them very well. i shall not mention turkey's longstanding criminal behaviour; it took the european union decades to dare to speak of turkey's illegal behaviour, 'illegal', as if it had broken a red light. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the unfortunate thing is that the government of my country has already celebrated this lukewarm statement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the european union. and don't be intimidated by the word, and if you don't know how to do it, ask your colleagues: for years now, they have been extorting, without restraint, entire peoples for more profits for the banks. now that we're talking about human lives, families, dignity, are you going to do something specific and of that intensity, or not? otherwise, we have an expression in greece, which i think you know, for this show: "tea and sympathy".
mr president, the abduction on 1 march 2018 of two greek soldiers by a turkish force on the border of evros and their continued hostage-taking since then are not an isolated incident. the european union is also concerned about the situation in turkey, which is a country which has been in a state of crisis for some time, and which is facing a crisis of confidence. the union must respond to the turkish provocations and show its solidarity with its members under threat. since the erdoğan regime does not understand the language of diplomacy, it will understand the language of sanctions. the union cannot continue indefinitely to provide substantial preaccession financial assistance to a state which does not even remotely meet its obligations as a candidate country. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, the two greek officers who are being arbitrarily detained in turkey are added to the dozens of european citizens who are in the same situation. but their case is different because we have not only the violation of democratic and human rights, which is characteristic of the erdoğan regime, but also a message from turkey that it could challenge the sovereign rights of greece, a member state of the european union. the european institutions and governments must therefore act quickly to prevent any negative developments, because the basis of european integration is post-war reconciliation and peace. when turkey questions the sovereign rights of greece it questions the very foundations of the european union because without the guarantee of sovereign rights and peace in greece and in all the member states, the european union will be led to a dead end.
mr president, i would like to speak in english because i think that today we have to send a strong and clear message to turkey, as an institution reflecting the will of the european citizens. it is important that the various parties in this house have already co-signed the text of this resolution in order to express solidarity with greece and call for the immediate release of the two greek soldiers. i would like to underline the contribution of the ppe group, based on the initiative of the nea demokratia party leader, mr kyriakos mitsotakis, who first raised this issue in the epp summit last march. but also, turkey is obliged to respect human rights under international law, including the geneva convention. turkey is, however, fully responsible for the escalation of tensions in the aegean sea. so today we have also to explain to turkish leaders that there is no à la carte accession procedure. we are the european parliament. it is our duty to safeguard our core values. it is our duty to protect our citizens and, above all, we have to protect our soldiers.
mr president, angelos mitterotodis and dimitris kuklatzis - their names are not just two soldiers, they are young people with families who are living their agony. you are, as far as i know, a father yourself, mr. stylianides, and you know what it means to be anxious about your child and the simplest things. especially if it's imprisonment unjustly, illegally and unreasonably. the european parliament is sending a strong message to turkey today to put an end to this agony and to stop playing the game of tension and on this point we are most united. we all demand the immediate release of the two soldiers. what will the commission and the council do? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. easter is over. what's he gonna do from now on?
mr. president, we're concerned about the two officers, but we're not afraid. they're greek officers and they'll take the hostage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they've managed to unite all the political groups! and this is a strong message that must be given to turkey: that all of us here, for one of the rare times, are calling for their release and we will achieve it!
mr president, on countless occasions in this chamber, meps have condemned turkey and erdogan by a majority for their violations of international law against greece and cyprus, for the massacres of the kurds, for the violation of human rights and for their refugee policy. turkey has committed another serious crime: the two greek soldiers have been kidnapped! they were, of course, on orderly duty and did not take aggressive action. if they have entered illegally, then, according to international law, the protocols and the brussels and hague conferences, it is not the persons who have committed the alleged illegal act but the state they represent who are responsible. so they enjoy heterosexuality. in simple terms, they cannot be referred to as regular justice. on the other hand, they are held in high-security prisons and are subject to the same conditions of detention as those of criminals who have committed serious crimes. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in cyprus and the turkish government has expressed its concern about the situation in cyprus. the only language it will understand is the imposition of harsh sanctions, the cessation of all funding from the union and not its accession to the union.
mr president, it has been 47 days since the abduction of the two greek soldiers by turkey. forty-seven days that ankara's criminal regime has been left free to violate every notion of international law. but our supposed allies in the european union have not only failed to support greece, but continue to have impeccable relations with turkey, limiting themselves to cheap and meaningless statements, while continuing to do various kinds of 'business' with ankara. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not asking, but demanding, that the countries of europe choose a side: either with greece or with the half-crazed erdogan. the greek people rightly interpret any relationship between a european country and turkey as hostile. the immediate release of the two military men is a prerequisite before any further discussion of turkey and, until that happens, we demand the immediate severance of diplomatic relations with turkey and the imposition of an economic embargo.
mr president, i will not repeat the facts. my colleagues have already analysed them in depth. but i will insist on the daily challenges facing greece in thrace and the aegean. we have been talking for years about turkey not complying, not following european policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. today turkey continues its hostile attitude towards greece. it constantly challenges greek sovereignty and violates international law. for the past month and a half, two young men, two military men who were patrolling the evros chestnut grove, europe's natural border with turkey, have been held captive in turkish prisons. dear friends, just the day before yesterday we said goodbye to a heroic pilot of our air force, whose plane crashed into the sea while returning to his base after a call to intercept turkish fighters that had violated greek airspace. this is the daily life in the aegean. the european union must finally take action. dimitri and angelo, we're thinking of you and we're with you. we're proud of you and we won't forget you!
madam president, the mechanisms for financing the union's external action must be operated in such a way as to ensure full respect for human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have just discussed the unjust and illegal detention of two greek soldiers in turkish prisons, where there are now thousands of political prisoners. the european investment bank cannot grant low-interest loans to turkey. similarly, external action cannot support countries where labour rights are not respected, countries where child labour exists, countries where the right to health and safety is violated and, moreover, obviously, these mechanisms cannot finance actions in countries which do not respect environmental protection.
madam president, it is a given that australia is an important trading partner of the european union, there is cooperation on many levels and, of course, we must not forget that in 2015 investments amounting to eur 117 billion were made by the european union in australia. the european union's competition with china and the united states in the pacific is clearly seen as a very important area for cooperation between the european union and australia. but i will stick to point 5 of the report which refers to the conclusion of the free trade agreement, since it is a given that from this agreement we will have a massive import of cheap agricultural products from australia into the european union market, especially at a time when the greek farmers, and the rest of the european farmers, are facing a lot of problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i would therefore like to hear this report as a former minister of justice in the czech republic who dealt with the question of subsidiarity and proportionality. i am very pleased that we are discussing this report here. it is a pity that it is so late and that this report has not received more attention, because it is precisely the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality that are absolutely crucial in defending the legitimacy of european law. i welcome the report, and i am very pleased that national parliaments are finally learning to use the opportunity of reasoned opinions. we should do everything we can to ensure that national parliaments make more and more use of this instrument in the future. it will then remove the subsequent debate, which i see also in my country, the czech republic. national politicians distance themselves from european legislation, saying: 'if we had known that such a proposal would be adopted, we would have expressed our negative views sooner.' it is an important instrument and i strongly support it reasoned opinions of national parliaments. and i would also like to support the european commission and mr juncker in that we are adopting less and less legislation and that the principle is to focus on quality, not quantity.
the report on subsidiarity and proportionality is particularly important, madam president. we would point out that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizen. it is therefore a democratic principle, a principle which leads to the decentralisation of powers, and this means that the levels at which decisions are taken are chosen when it comes to matters falling within what we call the concurrent powers of the european union. it is therefore a mechanism which effectively legitimises the european project itself, since it also gives a very important role to the national parliaments, which retain a right of veto, a right of yellow card, to question the ability of brussels to decide everything. i therefore believe that if the principle of subsidiarity is properly applied, democracy will be firmly established within the framework of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the growing inequalities within the european union, social and regional, threaten both social cohesion and democracy itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens are calling for a strong social pillar and not wish lists, they are calling for an ambitious european budget with new own resources, capable of supporting social cohesion, growth and innovation. they call for a european union that plays a leading role in defending democracy and human rights. the council cannot turn a blind eye to what is happening in hungary or poland and postpone. mr juncker, orthodox easter has passed and the two greek officers have not been released, despite your very good request, both yours and mr tusk's. the european parliament will vote unanimously tomorrow on a resolution calling on the erdoğan leadership to immediately release the two greek soldiers who were guarding the euro-turkish border. we are asking you not just for positive statements, but for pressure, initiatives and measures so that the two greek soldiers who are defending european policy and european borders in accordance with international law can return immediately to their homeland, to the greek army, to their families. it is not only greece that is asking for this, it is the european union that is asking for it unanimously, and you must prove it, mr tusk and mr juncker, by actions and by escalating the pressure.
mr president, the condemnation by the european council of turkey for its illegal actions in the aegean sea, for preventing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights and exploiting its natural resources, for the continued detention of the two greek soldiers, could determine to a considerable extent the further developments in relations with turkey. i use the expression 'could' because, as it turned out, it was decided to continue the talks with turkey. this is a high-level hypocrisy which offends the intelligence not only of the greeks but of all intelligent and prudent citizens of every state of the european union. if the european union leadership really wanted to solve the problems with turkey, it should have cut off all contact with that country until it decided to release the two greek soldiers and behaved consistently and honestly.
the european council of 22 and 23 march took important decisions: the european union has condemned turkey's aggression against greece, condemned turkey's illegal action against the republic of cyprus, and called for the release of our two soldiers who are being held illegally in turkish prisons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, you can see that nothing has changed, turkey continues its violations in the aegean, turkey threatens greece with war, turkey does not release our two soldiers. so what practical steps will you take? the european union must be able to take action to prevent the turkish people from being forced to leave their country, and the european union must be able to take action to prevent the turkish people from being forced to leave their country. take the same measures you took against russia, freeze the personal accounts of the turkish leadership, freeze all activities. yes, mr juncker, that is what you must do! you can't pet turkey. erdoğan does not understand words.
mr president, the european council has confirmed that the union's response to the intensification of imperialist rivalries, with trade wars with america, russia and china, culminating in military interventions, such as in syria, for control of energy and markets, with the immediate risk of generalisation, is the deepening of european integration with an intensity of exploitation, the militarization of the union in alliance with its competitors, america and nato, to encircle russia. the commission's haste to open accession negotiations with the western balkan countries, albania and skopje, with a substantial agreement, and the syriza government's haste to continue its bargaining with turkey, also serve this purpose. it is not a policy of popular prosperity, peace and security, as the commission says. they intensify exploitation, they ignite conflicts with the ultimate victim being the people, as the history of the european union and nato in the balkans shows, where they have been the protagonists in bloody border changes. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. the court of auditors has concluded that the final annual accounts of all the institutions of the european union in the field of justice and home affairs give an accurate picture of their financial situation and that the underlying transactions are legal for the year 2016. however, the european asylum service and the european border guard agency in particular have encountered absorption problems and difficulties in complying with budgetary rules. both agencies faced disproportionate administrative and operational challenges due to the migration crisis. they therefore did not have the necessary time to adapt and staff themselves properly. it is necessary to strengthen and equip these vital bodies with the necessary staff in order to enable them to fulfil their mission fully, contributing to the protection of both human rights and european borders.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are discussing today 53 reports on the discharge of bodies with expenditure of almost eur 140 billion and we are discussing them all in a fast track session and we will go to a fast track vote for an hour and a half. i think we are underestimating the very functions of the european parliament. we must give much more time to the control of each agency for which we grant or do not grant a discharge, just as we do not grant a discharge to the council for the activities it carries out. secondly, i would like to refer only to enisa, the agency for network and information security, and say that the life and the state of this agency are now sinful. i shall refer to the explanation of vote for which i shall be voting against later, because it has essentially moved all its activities from heraklion in crete to athens, having created additional administrative costs. this situation cannot continue, i have been constantly denouncing it in this house. we must finally pay attention to the functioning of enisa and it must be checked for the way it works, we must look at this issue. his headquarters was in heraklion but he has moved all the staff to athens and now he is complaining because there are so few left in heraklion, because he wants to take everyone from heraklion in crete and bring them to athens. is this a serious operation?
mr president, i have not given a discharge to the european network and information security agency, enisa, and i do so continuously, every year, because the life and state of that agency are known and i have denounced it here in the house. there is no chapter to be mentioned in accountability and transparency. in addition, it is clear that the methodology of various cycles is continuing in order to get enisa out of heraklion, crete and then greece. that is why these circles have succeeded in splitting this agency into an administrative centre in heraklion with only eight or ten employees and an operational centre in athens where the majority of the staff have now moved to, and this method of devaluing the agency itself, which was based in heraklion, continues. it is something i have always denounced and will continue to fight against in this attempt by various circles.
mr president, we are not surprised by the case of facebook or other social media which collect, store and process personal data for their own political, commercial and any other benefit. each click is also a self-serving, bought and sold multiple and chain-linked by monopolies, secret services, competing bourgeois states, each one exposing the other's laundry. in the end, they tell the users themselves, "be careful!" in short: capitalism, whose barbarity is also reflected online. the big talk about freedom and empty declarations, when the axe of censorship falls on anything radical that challenges this system, is really a breath of fresh air as are the declarations on protecting rights and admonitions on good usage and rules. science and technology are being suffocated under the boot of capitalist profit and corporate ownership. only by overthrowing them can the needs of the working people be met so that the internet and its applications are used in the interests of the workers.
madam president, one of the important side effects of digital technology is its potential to interfere unlawfully with people's privacy on the internet and thus violate their individual rights. the cambridge analytica scandal has shown that facebook user data can be used for economic, commercial and, above all, political purposes. the situation is made even more complex and serious when these elements become the property of terrorists and secret services. i remind you that, about two years ago, the cia officially thanked facebook users for their posts that gave it such information that it would have to pay a large number of agents over a long period of time to get it. governments do their best to protect citizens, but we have a big part of the responsibility and we have to be careful about what we post and especially about giving out our personal data.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, there is no doubt that the fight against money laundering contributes to the reduction of tax evasion, financial crime in general and the financing of terrorist organisations in particular. it is therefore important to ensure transparency as regards the beneficial owners of all types of bank accounts and the use of other means of payment which are cross-currency equivalents. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i think that the proposal for a directive under discussion meets these objectives and i will therefore support it, but i must point out that in any case all this must be done with full respect for the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of personal data in particular.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which would allow the member states to take measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. terrorist groups finance and conduct their activities by making extensive use of modern technology services that act as alternative financial systems not provided for in union legislation or benefiting from exemptions. in addition, money laundering activities are carried out with a wide use of cash transactions. the proliferation and use of electronic bank accounts and other similar online payment systems has increased exponentially, and therefore a union-wide limit on cash transfers should be considered without imposing significant burdens on individuals and companies. finally, where possible, policies and actions in other relevant areas, for example in trade and development cooperation, should be used to complement the fight against money laundering, always with a view to promoting entrepreneurship in the member states.
mr president, i would first like to wish you success in your work as vice-president. it is indeed an important initiative to combat money laundering, but at the very moment when we are discussing this issue here, the ecofin is starting a process of eradication, because even panama has been removed from the black list of countries that evade taxes, from the black list of non-cooperating countries, and we are discussing here what measures we will take. so obviously we have to take measures on both crypto-currencies and anonymous prepaid cards and of course we have to have the names of the beneficiaries in the trusts, in the companies and all of this of course under the condition of protecting personal data.
mr president, the fight against money laundering and the attempt to prevent the financing of terrorist organisations are two of the fundamental obligations of every state and of the european union, because these illegal activities have not only an economic dimension but also a security dimension. in this respect, the directive in question is moving in the right direction. it is a fact that terrorists use the existing financial system, operate on the fringes of it and manage to get financed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that they are financed by offshore companies, we know that they are financed by various islamic states, as well as we know that they are financed by smuggling, prostitution and other such illegal activities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of organic products is not distorted. what kind of fertilisers have been used, if any, and of course we must take measures to support the free movement of organic products in the european union, to support producers in remote areas and on islands. but if we are imposing these conditions on producers of organic products within the european union, it is certain that these conditions - and stricter ones - should apply to imports from third countries of organic products or so-called organic products, because i see that a situation of dehydration is gradually forming. the controls are applied to organic products within europe, but the same strict controls are not applied to organic or so-called organic products imported into the european union from third countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, there can be no amendment to the treaties and no change unless they are approved by the national parliaments, so they have considerable powers. the point is, they rarely practice them. secondly, they have the right to vote on directives, so they participate in the legislative process in their own way. thirdly, they have the possibility of parliamentary scrutiny of the ministers who participate in the council and if these ministers do not do their job well, then they can also adopt a motion of censure against their government. the next element is that the national parliaments can participate in cooperation with the commission in the famous european semester and, of course, at the end, at the level of subsidiarity, that is to say, on the level at which decisions will be taken in the competencies involved, they have an important role and they do it by making use of the yellow card. the national parliaments therefore have more power. the point is that they unfortunately serve the executive branch and dare not stand up. that is the real problem.
i would like to refer to the famous issue of state aid and say that often, because there is state aid, the penalty imposed on companies is essentially to return these funds. i would like to mention, commissioner, a serious issue in greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. it is now obliged to return 136 million euros at a time when there is no way that this money can be found, and what is the solution? dissolve the company, split it up, separate the factory from the mines. we have here a production unit which must survive, which must give life to the economy and which, in the name of the reimbursement of state aid, is being dismantled and with it the economy of the region. is this economic policy? i would like to ask you to give a specific answer, because this is a hot topic for the region of fertile greece.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, for more than a year now, the european parliament has been urging the commission and the member states to amend european legislation to ensure greater transparency in the taxation of multinational companies, in particular. there are many such companies which produce elsewhere, sell their products elsewhere at great profits and are taxed at extremely low rates elsewhere. the obligation to publish statements by multinational companies with country-specific information may promote corporate responsibility and reduce tax avoidance through aggressive tax planning. it is neither fair nor sustainable to burden small and mediumsized enterprises and workers with ever more onerous taxes while large multinationals are essentially exempt. any further delay in this matter is unjustified.
madam president, while citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises pay taxes and we have in many countries, such as greece, a huge tax evasion policy, multinationals evade and avoid taxes. the example of luxleaks is crucial. what should be done from now on? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. unfortunately, certain countries, as the bulgarian presidency has said, have blocked the process. and i ask you, mrs panayotova, which member states have blocked this process? you name them. and i ask you, is greece among the member states which have blocked the procedure for adopting the directive? we want transparency, we want answers here in the european parliament.
madam president, measles is rampant in greece at the moment. the latest figures show that from 01/05/2017 to 05/04/2018 we had 2,431 cases. the trend of measles cases in greece is increasing, while in the rest of europe it is decreasing. already as we speak we have over 2,500 cases and of course those who suffer the consequences are aged 25 to 44. most of the cases are in southern greece, there are roma among the patients, and of course the problems are intensifying because of the refugee crisis. we have health workers, many of whom have been sick, so you understand, commissioner, that the problems are very serious in greece. the question is therefore whether the greek government is cooperating with the commission on this issue, whether greece is in this 'health alliance' and how this issue will be dealt with in greece and in the other countries of the european union.
madam president, the primary data in the report are few and far between. it is impossible to draw any qualitative conclusions from the seven european protection orders recorded. without data, no safe questions, recommendations or assessments can be formulated. in addition, the report is biased in that it implies that national protection orders are inherently inferior, while failing to mention that protection orders are not only for women but for anyone in need of protection. crossborder cooperation in civil and criminal matters should be designed to protect victims, punish perpetrators and prevent further crimes. but fundamental rights and basic rules of morality serve as a pretext for control of the member states through excessive requirements of systematization and reciprocity of mechanisms, even in areas falling within the competence of the member states. recognition of a judicial act issued in one member state and to be enforced in another must transcend the frontiers and interests of individual states and is one of the few cases of acceptable european integration.
madam president, gender-based violence is a matter of growing concern in the european union, since there is documented evidence that one in three women over the age of 15 in the union has been subjected to physical or sexual violence. at the same time, one in five women has been the victim of persistent surveillance, i.e. harassment. at the same time, other data indicate that over 100,000 women have joined protection programmes against gender-based violence. and yet what we see at the european union level is that the european protection order has only been applied seven times, which means that this measure is not known at the european union level in the first place. the commission must therefore step up its efforts to help with awareness campaigns to raise awareness so that this important measure to protect victims of gender-based violence can be put to good use.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but what happened to the bologna process? the bologna process is the same, because the united kingdom has three years of higher education, and because they want to impose this on the other member states, that is to say, to lower the quality of university education, because there is a perception, within the bologna system, that education is a commodity and not a public good. i conclude that cooperation and coordination are reasonable, but only on condition that the member states retain their own powers and decide on the conditions under which they enter into the cooperation procedure.
madam president, twenty years of the bologna process with a fixed strategy of the european union and the 48 governments of the single european area, studies adapted to the needs of capital for a cheap labour force, lifelong mobility from country to country, from institution to institution, collectors of opportunities for specific qualifications and skills, graded degrees and graduates at different levels and then job mobility and uncertainty in the name of competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the name of removing the existing barriers between the different levels of education, different sections and degrees are provided and non-formal and informal education is encouraged, intended for the many, the students from disadvantaged backgrounds as clearly stated in the resolution. the answer is: all knowledge in the degree and that is the only prerequisite for full access to the profession, free education for all without barriers and discrimination, postgraduate research programmes leading to a doctorate. unified higher education with the people in power! (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the crackdown on drug dealers must be carried out within the framework of the rule of law, strict penalties must of course be imposed and there must also be no release of drug dealers from prison under any pretext whatsoever - because this happens a lot. but in the philippines the war on drugs has now become a purge by the armed forces with over 20,000 victims and extrajudicial executions. at the same time, the philippine president is using this opportunity of the war, as he says, against drugs, to deal very harshly with his political opponents and of course he is driving the philippines to extremes with violence against women and the reintroduction of the death penalty. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the philippines is not subject to the same customs duties as the other countries of the european union.
mr president, the state of israel has been illegally occupying palestinian land for decades now, rejecting international agreements, seizing new territory with settlements, expanding its borders daily to the detriment of palestine, depriving palestinians of food and even water, oppressing, exiling, imprisoning, murdering with impunity unarmed protesters and children, as now in the blockaded gaza, an open prison. that's why the protesters call it a killer state. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. but remember that without resistance, europe today would still be nazi. the americans, nato, the european union and governments like syriza are strengthening cooperation with this imperialist guard state in the middle east and are bombing syria with it, instead of all governments recognizing the state of palestine. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the emotional debate that has been going on here, and allow me to make a few remarks. first of all, i want to share with most of my colleagues the condemnation of the tragic incident on the palestinian-israeli border. on the other hand, i have to defend my colleague preda, who has been mentioned many times by our left-wing colleagues. i don't think we can agree on the nature of the israeli-palestinian problem. we have made it clear here, and mr preda has also said it, that we must not only look at the consequences of this tragic incident, which we all condemn, but also at the activities of the hamas terrorist movement which is being carried out there and which are making a significant contribution to such incidents and are then making a significant contribution to what is happening on the israeli-palestinian border. and it's good to say, the context is obvious here and it's not possible to just state that there's a tragic consequence.
mr president, first of all we must say that there is hamas, which is designated as a terrorist organisation, and here, and by many others, there is also hamas, which is the elected government of the palestinians, so we must accept that. so how do you expect the situation to be in the world's largest concentration camp, commissioner? the israeli occupation is the subject we have discussed more times in this room, even more than the syrian war. tell us one measure you've taken - one not two - for the murders. tell us about an initiative you've taken to put pressure on israel. palestinian civilians are murdered by israeli soldiers in cold blood and lieberman hands out medals of honor. he says he's going to wipe out the palestinians and he guarantees there will be no consequences. it seems to mr preda that the palestinians have been so dehumanized that they don't deserve even a humanitarian intervention, their blood is cheap, their suffering is meaningless and their murderers may be your friends and partners. i am not saying that the council should be a majority, but that it should be a majority. did you suggest it? i have made so many calls on you to freeze the association agreement with israel, you are obliged by the treaties and by the european union and by the agreement itself. if you do not change your policy, you are wasting your time and your... (the president interrupts)
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. this is a major blow to the farmers of the european south. it is a blow to small farmers. it is a blow to the fishermen themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problems of the developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the sums allocated to cohesion are also insufficient. we must support the island regions, the aegean regions, the aegean islands which are receiving huge numbers of refugees and illegal immigrants. and there we must have extra funds instead of giving them to turkey, which is violating human rights and illegally holding two greek military men in prison.
madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr valli on his initial report on the european investment bank. i would of course point out that at a time when turkey is threatening greece and cyprus, at a time when turkey is violating the sovereign rights of my country, at a time when it is illegally holding our two military men, the european investment bank is giving a package of low-interest loans to turkey. it is seventh in the ranking of third countries in terms of money received. in 2014, turkey took out loans of eur 2,1 billion; the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in turkey, which is suffering from a serious economic crisis. and in connection with what mr oettinger said earlier, i asked for no funds in the budget for turkey. the commissioner said that we had frozen these funds. but there is no guarantee that they will not thaw in the future. the european union must not allow funds to flow to turkey as long as it violates international law and human rights.
the first and most important thing to bear in mind, madam president, is that we are not discussing here today the defence of the union's economic interests but, above all, the defence of the economic interests of the european citizens. money coming directly or indirectly from them is managed by the union and this maximises the responsibility we all have for the use of this money. i would agree entirely that much stricter controls should be imposed on the allocation and use of european funds, while at the same time the framework for their use should be made much simpler and clearer, in order to avoid cases of mismanagement in which there is no fraud but simple ignorance of the regulations. in any case, immediate and much more effective measures must be taken in customs controls to combat the smuggling of tobacco and petroleum products and the trade in illegal and counterfeit products. these types of smuggling cost europeans many millions of euros each year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to point out, however, that it is not possible to press for the proper use of european funds when the union's own institutions are too often mismanaged and wasteful.
madam president, combating fraud at the level of the european union and the member states must be our priority. mrs crețu, i have repeatedly referred to the way in which the ngos manage the european union funds that go to support refugees in greece. more than 500 million euro is available. yet the management of funds by ngos is done in complete transparency. ngos literally party, they don't answer to anyone, and it's time to check them out. where does this money go? how are they used? let me give you an example: today in samos, an island 180 miles from piraeus, ten hours from piraeus, 3,133 rations of food were distributed. these rations came from piraeus. they've been defrosted and heated in samos, to be distributed to the refugees. this happens every day. do you think that's right? it is possible that ready-made food is being sent by catering from athens to the island of samos, food that the refugees do not even eat; they throw it away! this is the reality! we need to do a check. we need olaf to step in.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, regardless of the aim, any reference to procedural procedures for the investigation of cases under national jurisdiction is unfounded. recommendations by the institutions of the union as a means of prosecution or other legal action are a matter for the competent national authorities and do not constitute an obligation under the applicable regime and legal order. finally, the proposed link between the rule of law and the management of funds lawfully paid is abusive and the aim of stopping it is a bias towards the states concerned. in short, despite some positive reports, the report in its present form is a hoarding of data and a vehicle for lobbying for purposes unrelated to the subject of the report, despite the fact that it is a requirement and a necessity to combat any fraud, illegality and source of dispute for the proper functioning of a state.
madam president, commissioner, today more than ever it is timely to talk about sustainable transport, as it seems that the cohesion fund money is decreasing but at the same time the challenges for both sustainable transport and tackling climate change are increasing. it is therefore more necessary than ever for member states to activate all the tools at their disposal, whether it is the cohesion fund, the juncker efsi, the connecting europe facilities or the private sector. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national and regional transport, the introduction of a new system of national and regional transport, and the introduction of a new system of national and regional transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy mix of transport is not affected by the changes in the energy mix. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the member states, and in particular the transport sector, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget.
madam president, sustainable transport is particularly important for islands, especially for islands in greece, which, because of their distance from the mainland, are at a competitive disadvantage. this is particularly true, mrs crețu, of the aegean islands, which are affected by the enormous flows of migrants. the problem of distance can therefore be solved by the introduction of the transport equivalent, i.e. by harmonizing the tariff charge of the user of sea transport with that of land transport, the so-called road equivalent tariff. this can be financed as a procedure by the european regional development fund. i would ask you, mrs crețu, whether you agree to the use of funds from the european regional development fund to finance the transport equivalent for the aegean islands and whether the greek government has put this question to you, whether it has asked for your cooperation in order to institute the transport equivalent for the aegean islands.
madam president, i think that there is a complete agreement from all sides in this house that concrete measures must obviously be taken to deal with this scourge, to be able to deter and punish any actions and acts - illegal acts - which are related to sexual harassment, to violence against women. the most effective action is first of all the implementation of the famous istanbul convention. we've said it in this room too many times: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of violence against women, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it.
mr president, it is pure hypocrisy for the european union to try to appear sensitive to the refugee children that it and its allies bomb and uproot from their homes, either with their parents or unaccompanied, or by making them live the agony of months of waiting for family reunification. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the policy of the commission and its governments, such as the syriza-anel government, condemns children to live trapped in miserable conditions, exposed to murderous fascist attacks, such as the one recently on lesvos. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. full support for refugee and migrant children!
mr president, the protection of migrant children is on the agenda in all the countries of the european union and it is obvious that they must be absolutely protected from violence, especially sexual violence, from exploitation, from prostitution. at the moment, the migration flows are increasing in greece, not only from the aegean islands but also from the evros region. last sunday i was in lesvos. the situation has reached the impasse. more than 10,000 refugees and illegal immigrants are on lesvos, which has a population of 27,000. you realize that this situation cannot continue. a few hours ago, 160 people disembarked on the island of chios. so you see that the flows are increasing and we must take measures: firstly, to decongest the aegean islands; secondly, to protect, of course, minors; thirdly, to relocate to other countries of the european union and, finally, to repatriate those who are not entitled to asylum.
mr president, it is a given that we all agree that a universal ban on animal testing for cosmetics must be achieved. the fact that the european union has already achieved this prohibition is a great achievement. we must not forget that we have received many reports on this issue over the years, so the steps taken at european union level are in the right direction. the question is how the prohibitions will be enforced in third countries, because in china and in asian countries it is a given that animal testing is allowed for the production of cosmetics. so you realize that the mistreatment of animals, the torture that they suffer, and all of this in order to make cosmetics, continues on a global level. the european union must therefore take an international crusade and initiatives on this issue.
mr president, the european union prohibits the marketing of cosmetic products and cosmetic ingredients which have previously been applied to animals. this decision by the european union is commendable because, in addition to protecting animals from the use of cruel and inhuman methods, it shows that it is possible to gradually reduce the production of cosmetics previously applied to animals. it also shows that there is a possibility of finding alternative solutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the european union must therefore, in order to ensure that the european union's efforts are not left to the level of a mere wishful thinking or, at best, an initiative in the right direction, launch a global campaign to ban the production of cosmetics previously applied to animals.
mr president, commissioner, mr hogan, allow me to congratulate mrs mcguinness on the question she has put, because it really touches on the serious issue of tackling farm safety in the european union. and eurostat data shows that we have over 500 fatal accidents in agriculture in 2015. this means that, despite the measures taken at a first level in the european union, concrete efforts are needed. we need training, we need education, we need funding for farm safety programmes to deal with the many accidents that happen. often the victims are the children themselves. we have seen farmers who are crushed by their tractors and sadly die. in this context, specific measures are therefore needed to ensure safety on farms.
mr president, the wider agricultural sector has been a difficult, arduous and dangerous activity for man since ancient times. unfortunately, we are also witnessing today many fatal accidents, mainly due to the lack of safety in the installations, the absence of high-technology means and the lack of information and training of those involved in these activities. if we add to this the deaths and illnesses caused by difficult working conditions, accidents and pesticide use, we conclude that the european union must take action, adopt financial programmes for plant safety and, moreover, create incentives for young people to take up agricultural work, especially in southern europe and in greece, which is devastated by the memoranda.
mr president, i think it is important that we have a report on the problems of sheep and goat farming. mr commissioner, mr hogan, i called a little while ago a friend of mine, a young farmer in thessaly, and asked him what issues he would like to raise in relation to what is being discussed here, and he said that he considered it important and necessary to reduce the cost of farming, since soya is mainly imported from south america. he sees the embargo on russia as a big problem because he can't export. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. in addition, the price of the feta has fallen because of the adulteration of the product. another farmer from the kozani region raises the issue of protective measures against predators, especially wolves and bears. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, sheep and goat farming is a difficult but important job, because it meets some of the food requirements of the citizens of the european union. because of their vulnerability to natural and predator-borne hazards as well as to various diseases, these animals are declining in number, and this has a consequent effect on meat consumption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect sheep and goats from various diseases, which are mainly caused by animals imported from neighbouring countries, such as greece, turkey, skopje and, to a lesser extent, albania, and to protect consumers and farmers from the various trade agreements we are concluding with australia, new zealand and other countries.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. this means that political parties should be allowed to participate in media briefings, and this is in proportion to the parliamentary strength of the political groups here in the european parliament, something which the media in greece systematically ignore in relation to the ecr and our movement 'greece - the other way' and try to silence us. in addition, there is a need for objectivity on the part of journalists; to report the news and activities here in the european parliament. last week i asked president macron about france's support for greece in the event of a turkish threat, and yet a significant part of the media and correspondents tried to suppress the story and to present it as if it had been made generally after a question from a member of the european parliament. shame on you!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. the main actors in this self-evident reality are journalists. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not distorted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
mr president, yesterday's commission communication on pension adequacy and the oecd guidelines for greece in the so-called post-memorandum era prove that there is no greater lie or joke than that the memoranda are ending. the new bloody pension cuts after the formal end of the memorandum in august and the reduction of the tax-free allowance for the popular strata have already been legislated by the champion of anti-people demolitions, the syriza-anel government. the european commission, which considers the reform of the syriza-anel law, which sent pensions and the vast majority of pensioners below the poverty line to the tartars, to be more important than insurance payments, recommends that the reforms be stepped up. the oecd is more specific: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, such as the introduction of a new pension age of four years, more flexibility in working conditions, further taxation and cuts in social spending. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, greece has achieved primary surpluses in the past two years that are many times higher than the targets set. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the european creditors must realise that the policy they have imposed is a dead end. no amount of primary surpluses can make manageable a public debt of 180% of a stagnant gdp. the only way to make greek public debt sustainable is to have strong growth in greece. this implies a reduction in the burden of debt servicing by creditors, so that tax rates are reduced to more reasonable levels. respect the sacrifices of the greek people and give greece a real chance!
welcome, mr prime minister! those who believe in the idea of a united europe which will strive to serve the needs and interests of its nations and peoples are concerned about the course the european union is taking and therefore about its future. they ask what future the european union can have when it has deviated from the principles and values on which it was founded, when it denies its historical, religious and cultural roots, when it violates the principle of solidarity, with greece as a prime example, for whose economic ruin and the impoverishment of the greek people the european union is also responsible; when, instead of supporting its citizens, it turns against them, imposes onerous taxes on them, removes social benefits and imposes the application of their circumstances; when it criminalizes and persecutes any voice that opposes it; when it undermines the education of young people and pushes them either into exile, or into unemployment, or into working conditions with low wages and very bad conditions. what future can it have when it is uncontrollably accepting millions of illegal immigrants, some of whom it is trying to trap in greece? finally, what future can it have when it is supposed to be fighting for the principles of democracy and wants to include turkey, an anti-democratic country which blackmails, threatens, does not recognise the republic of cyprus, arrests citizens of the european union, with the recent example of the arrest and imprisonment of the two greek soldiers. i'll end by asking you, mr. prime minister: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i would like to thank him for his reply. in addition, a european army has not yet been established which could possibly support greece against the threats of turkey. i would therefore like to ask you, mr belgian prime minister, whether belgium as a state is prepared to conclude with greece a defence cooperation agreement with a military assistance clause in the event of an attack by turkey against greece, an agreement to guarantee the greek borders, which are also european, an agreement to be concluded immediately, as erdoğan intensifies his threats against greece and continues the illegal detention of our two soldiers, for whom i call on you, mr prime minister, to declare your support here in the european parliament for the immediate release of our two soldiers from his turkish military prisoners.
mr president, i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very important one. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected. at the same time, we must strengthen the protection of european borders in practice, and i would like to remind you that the return of the two greek soldiers who are currently being illegally detained in the prisons of adrianople in turkey must be made a european priority. in this way we will prove that we do indeed live in the same house and that we do indeed share the same values.
madam president, as i said in my speech yesterday, although turkey continues its aggressive policy towards greece, although turkey is violating the territorial waters of my country, although turkey maintains the casus belli against greece, the european investment bank continues to grant low-interest loans to turkey and thus finances small and mediumsized enterprises, transport, the agricultural sector and environmental projects. in 2014, eur 2.1 billion has been provided as low-interest loans, in 2016 the european investment bank provided usd 2.3 billion in low-interest loans to turkey. this situation must stop. it is not possible to finance the turkish economy at a time when turkey is pursuing an aggressive policy against greece, at a time when it is holding the two greek military men in prison. the european investment bank's financing of turkey must be stopped.
as i said in my speech yesterday, madam president, the european union must support greece's efforts to institutionalize the transport equivalent, and i asked mrs crețu for funding from the european regional development fund. in her reply, mrs crețu threw the ball to the greek government and said that the greek government should shape this measure because it is the exclusive responsibility of greece. the tsipras government must therefore roll up its sleeves and finally introduce the transport equivalent for the aegean islands, in order to relieve all the islands, and in particular the aegean islands, as they are receiving huge migration flows. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind.
madam president, as i said in my speech yesterday, a year before the european elections the european parliament and the european union must ensure that there is pluralism, that there is no more fake news, that there is no more propaganda, that there is pluralism, that we, the meps and the political groups, are given the opportunity to make our voices heard in our countries, because this does not apply to greece, where both the ecr and our movement greece, the other way are silenced, where our presence in all the media must be guaranteed, we must have time to take account of the strength of our political group, which is the third political group in the european parliament, and to stop our activity in isolation. i asked mr michel, the belgian prime minister, a question here a short while ago, and he said that belgium was now also supporting greece in the face of turkish threats. let's see, is this gonna be in the media or is she gonna be buried, too?
mr president, infrastructure projects are a key means of development for all the member states of the union. the commission's decision has, i must admit, some positive aspects. there are provisions for the protection of the environment, although not to the extent that we would like. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a number of projects to improve the quality of the water supply in the community, in particular the water supply system in the north sea, and the water supply system in the mediterranean. in addition, the emphasis on railways is ensuring cleaner and safer transport of goods. we recognize that transport safety in general is extremely important. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety of the citizens of the union is not compromised. in addition, even greater efforts are needed to protect the environment. however, all actions must be well designed and take account of the possible negative impact they may have and must not harm the competitiveness of national economies and must not create an undue burden on smaller or individual transport undertakings.
the third package of measures on mobility contains proposals of particular interest. but they need specialisation and they need a specific timetable for implementation. i consider the issue of road safety to be the most important issue at the moment. as has been said, 25 300 of our fellow citizens in europe die every year as a result of road accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. this means that measures should also be taken for lorries from third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of transport, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have also asked the greek government to take specific measures. concrete measures should be taken to ensure that lorries from third countries actually meet the safety standards.
mr president, the multiannual plan for the management of fish stocks in the north sea is an important initiative, since it concerns eight countries, not all of which are member states of the european union. secondly, it is also based on the experience we have had with the baltic project. there are technical problems which need to be solved, such as mixed fisheries and the restriction on landings, because a distinction must be made between basic and by-catch fisheries. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations. we must not forget that even before the united kingdom joined the then eec we had a number of problems and conflicts between, in particular, the united kingdom and france.
mr president, first of all we must point out that the new cap must return to the principle of community preference as it was when it was launched, which means direct support to the farmers of the european union themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point is that there must be no reductions in the new cap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the next item is the support for agriculture in the small islands which really need it, as well as the support for small farms and the support for young farmers. we must stop the delays in payments and provide for low supplies and low agricultural oil.
mr president, the future of agriculture will determine to a large extent the future of the production of products which will meet the food needs of future generations. the cap must therefore be flexible, resilient and able to meet the challenges of the future. it is true that the agricultural policy must be common. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the needs of the countries of northern europe are different from those of southern europe. in addition, it should be borne in mind that needs are not met by grants alone. the needs of farmers and small businesses must be addressed and financed, but the interests of farmers in the broad sense must be protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products.
mr president, in the name of ageing and support for young farmers, the clearing of land and the concentration of land in a few hands is being accelerated. the proposal to prohibit farmers from receiving a subsidy at the same time as their meagre pension would be a lucky break. provocatively now opportunities are offered, you say, to trigger insurance in the event of frost, drought and flood. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the proposal to convert part of the grants into entrepreneurship seminars is a new development, and these will be a condition for any grant to be paid only if it is accompanied by a corresponding business plan. the direction of the cap is clear: flexibility in response to market demands, producer groups and concentration of production in a few. the only way out for small and mediumsized farmers is to take action against the cap, the government and the european union with a social alliance against the policy that destroys them with demands based on their real needs.
mr president, measures to support young farmers are a social necessity for all young farmers in the european union, and even more so in greece, which has been hit by the harsh austerity, the brutal fiscal adjustment imposed by the troika and the creditors. this means that concrete measures must be taken to support young farmers, especially young farmers in very remote areas, and i am speaking in particular of the aegean islands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr hogan, we must stop the confiscation of subsidies for young farmers in greece. i have denounced this matter repeatedly. the european union must take action on this issue.
mr president, if the common agricultural policy is to be successful and primary production is to be increased, the problems of young farmers' access to agricultural employment must be tackled. it is true that the available land has been considerably reduced. it is also difficult because there is no incentive for older generations to leave farming and transfer the work to younger generations. the benefits to young farmers should also be of a social nature and not just financial aid and subsidies. the problem facing farmers, and young farmers, in greece, which has been economically ruined by the implementation of the memoranda, must also be treated with great care. it is therefore the european union's duty to protect, above all, greek agricultural production and the possibility for young greek farmers to engage in agricultural activities.
mr president, the connecting europe facility post-2020 is indeed important. but first of all, it requires funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the emphasis should be on connectivity and innovation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this applies in particular to greece, which is at the extreme end of the european union, but also to the aegean islands, which are literally cut off. in this context, there should be a regulation on the so-called transport equivalent and there should be funding for operational actions and actions on the transport equivalent through the regional development programme. at the same time, i agree with the emphasis on new infrastructure or the modernisation of existing infrastructure.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods by road is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. we must also make use of the citizens' initiative, which also raises issues for which the european union must take a legislative initiative. the legal basis to be chosen is certainly a serious matter. i think there are issues that need to be looked at, such as impact assessment, the involvement of the european parliament in matters of international agreements and also the involvement of the european parliament in matters relating to delegated acts.
mr president, sustainable finance is of course crucial to environmental protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. the conditions under which this financing is made, the planning itself, must of course be reviewed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all other countries are participating except greece. at the same time, the bank of greece, as part of the eurosystem, participates in quantitative easing and buys bonds of foreign, non-greek companies, and has spent, for 2015 and 2016, 42 billion euros. does that make sense to you ? the bank of greece investing in bonds of non-greek companies and, at the same time, greece being out of quantitative easing? can this procedure go on like this?
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms scott cato, for taking the initiative to present this report. i welcome the support that the report gives to the work on sustainable finance. i also welcome the large consensus among political groups on the best way forward. this is encouraging in view of our future work and discussions on the legislative proposals on sustainable finance that the commission presented last week. these proposals already address some of your concerns. first, we will start the process of designing an eu classification system for sustainable economic activities which can inform future eu standards and labels for green financial products such as green bonds or investment funds. we are looking forward to the european parliament support on this important proposal. second, for those who manage investments on behalf of others, we propose to clarify that their duty towards their clients includes the systemic incorporation of sustainability risks into their investment processes. they will also have to disclose how they take this risk into account and what impact they expect these risks to have on returns. in addition, for investment products that actively pursue sustainable objectives, the way these objectives are incorporated into investment decisions would also need to be disclosed. third, we propose to create a new category of benchmarks consisting of two specific types of benchmarks: low carbon benchmarks and positive carbon impact benchmarks. we also propose to establish minimum standards for the methodology of these benchmarks. this will increase transparency towards investors on how these benchmarks select and weigh their underlying assets and measure their carbon footprint. in addition, providers of low carbon benchmarks will have to disclose how their methodology takes into account the esg factors. finally, we propose that investment firms and insurance distributors consider the sustainability preferences of retail investors when giving investment advice. in the coming weeks we will establish a technical expert group (we’re going to call it teg) that will further work on developing an eu classification for sustainable activities or taxonomy standards for green bonds and sustainable matrix. these are the first steps towards a more sustainable financial system. there is still some work ahead to address other concerns stated in your own initiative report. for instance, the commission is evaluating the mandatory reporting requirements to make sure they provided the right information to market participants, enabling them to assess companies’ long-term value creation and their sustainability-risk management. of course, further clarification of the role of european supervisory authorities in this process is really important. let me conclude by stressing again my appreciation of the work of the european parliament in this field. now we count on you to move as fast as possible in the coming months to adopt these measures that will encourage sustainable and green investments in europe.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. at the moment, there is a provision in the memorandum that says that if a court decision is issued annulling the budgetary measures imposed by the memorandum, then the government must proceed to take new budgetary measures of equivalent effect. in other words, the troika itself is thus enforcing - through memoranda - non-compliance with the decisions of the greek judiciary. secondly, the recent resignation of the president of the council of state in greece is a serious indication that the institution of judicial independence in greece is now being shaken. the report must examine how the troika operates and how it essentially destroys any notion of judicial independence in the member states below the troika.
mr president, the recognition by the european parliament of the genocide of the pontic greeks by turkey is now a historical necessity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european union and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european community and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european union and the republic of turkey on the extension of the agreement between the european union and turkey. in 1919, after kemal atatürk's decision in the sampsunda of pontus, the young turks proceeded to mass massacres and murders of thousands of pontic greeks. men, women and children were the victims of the genocide of the pontic greeks, numbering over 350 000. executions, rapes and forced labor in the work camps wiped out 350,000 of our fellow citizens in pontus. it is a genocide, since the pontic greeks were exterminated by turkey because they were greek and christian. on 21 may - a few days ago - in the european parliament in brussels, i organized, as a member of the ecr group, an event on the need for the european parliament to recognize the genocide of the pontic greeks. the european parliament should finally do its historic duty by completing the 100th anniversary of the genocide of the pontic greeks in 2019.
madam president, the new financial framework is better than the current one and that shows that good work is being done. but we must not compare the european union with its past but with its needs and the modern world. the major challenges remain unresolved and the european union's powers, especially merkel and macron, must do something to improve the strategy. otherwise, and with the new fiscal framework, we will continue to lose in economic and digital competition with the us and china. we will not be able to cope with the consequences of brexit, the great italian crisis, the difficulties of understanding with poland and hungary, the continuing great difficulties in greece. in my view, we are obliged to be ambitious, because small improvements no longer provide solutions.
madam president, under the pretext of covering the economic vacuum created by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, the new multiannual financial framework provides for major cuts, and cuts in key areas such as the common agricultural policy and social benefits. the economic life of europeans will therefore be adversely affected. in this sense, it is inconceivable to cut back on the greek people, who are suffering from the austerity measures imposed on them, and to invest 13 billion in defence in order to confront a nonexistent, imaginary enemy, which is supposed to threaten us. it is also inconceivable to increase the funds for dealing with migration, from which the greeks have suffered more than any other people in europe, instead of assigning the greek armed forces the task of protecting the country's borders, which are also the borders of the european union, from the uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants. finally, it is unacceptable to finance turkey, a country which has such a provocative and unacceptable attitude towards the european union and which violates every concept of international law.
madam president, the report on posted workers claims to improve their situation. the european union is not, of course, in pain over the issue of workers' rights. if he were interested in them, the only way would be to apply the most favourable arrangement to the seconded without conditions. but the union is only interested in the freedom of establishment of enterprises, the debased 'bolkestein directive', the mobility of workers with equal intensity of exploitation of local and posted workers, and the general downward squeeze on wages and entitlements. the union, with its alleged social personality, simply takes sides in the competition between businesses, the bourgeoisie, the more powerful or the less powerful states. who will lead the race to compete with even cheaper workers? the apparent improvements in the situation of posted workers are left to the discretion of employers and contractors, and are literally drowned out by the general abolition of labour rights, collective agreements, the right to social security and the right to strike in all member states. local and posted workers in a common struggle to demand collective agreements, wages, insurance and rights based on their modern needs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dialogue. the european union is currently being asked to pay equal pay for equal work, to have equality, to have collective agreements applied, no exceptions, and also to pay the same benefits and to have collective agreements applied. this must be the basic principle which applies throughout the european union. the trick of having posted workers, who are paid not according to the wages in force in the country where they work but according to the wages in force in their country of origin, must be stopped. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my view, the same conditions must apply to all workers and this unacceptable directive on the alleged posting of workers must be completely abolished.
madam president, a question: why are you killing palestinians? the answer is because we can't put them all in jail. this is not the delirium of some fanatical israeli settler. it's an official statement from the representative of the israeli foreign ministry. so, yes or no? is israel a murderer state or not? in the last few days alone, it has killed over 100 children and young people, and injured over 10,000 unarmed protesters protesting the move of the us embassy to jerusalem. he announced another 200 settlements. it extends the miserable wall to the sea, turning gaza into the world's largest concentration camp. the european union and governments that continue to expand relations with israel, such as the syriza-anel government in greece, refusing to recognize the palestinian state, calling for restraint and equating perpetrators and victims, shedding crocodile tears over disproportionate violence, are in effect legitimizing israeli barbarity. seventy years of sacrifice have not brought the palestinian people to their knees. he continues to fight for a new independent state with east jerusalem as its capital and is confident that the palestinian people will win.
madam president, commissioner, after the heroic battle fought by the israeli troops to repel the unacceptable attack on thousands of hungry, barefoot, disabled, children and elderly palestinians, residents of the mighty military power of gaza, i believe that the european union must not remain indifferent and neutral, but must take effective initiatives to prevent the possibility of a similar attack on the defenseless israel! i welcome with particular satisfaction the progress of the work on the undersea wall - unique in the world as lieberman said - and the construction of the underground wall around the gaza border, so that israel will not be threatened by either fish or rats coming from gaza and who will certainly be members of the hamas terrorist organization! i suggest that the european union should finance this project and that its creators should be nominated for the sakharov prize! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the palestinian people are not left to their own devices, and that the palestinian people are not left to their own devices.
mr president, from the outset, as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of central america, i condemned the violence which has resulted in the loss of human life in nicaragua. violence is not a solution and in no case can it be accepted. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. the nicaraguan government is obliged to do the obvious, namely to carry out a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the deaths and to hold those responsible to account, and the inter-american commission on human rights must make a decisive contribution to this. at the same time, however, we are obliged to condemn the attempts of those, inside and outside the country, who are exploiting these tragic events to destabilize the country on the altar of petty political interests, and to press for the dialogue that began on the initiative of the government to continue to reach a positive conclusion for the benefit of the citizens. it is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to contribute to the establishment of a spirit of peace and harmony among all the citizens of the country. any other unilateral agenda i think should find us opposed to it.
mr president, we have repeatedly dealt with the problems facing the european steel industry and here in this chamber we have called for measures to be taken to protect the european steel industry. because it faces a huge problem and, most importantly, it faces unfair competition from china. it's been so long! for two or three years we talked and we didn't see eye to eye! the united states is also moving decisively towards a protectionist strategy. of course, the national security argument does not hold. it is a piercing thing and mr trump cannot say it to the european union, most of whose members are supposedly members of nato and therefore have a primary purpose. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry in the community is not affected by the crisis.
mr president, if the decision of the president of the united states to impose tariffs on european steel and aluminium exports is implemented, it will have consequences not only for european industries but also for the industries of many other countries, in order to protect the american economy. the european union must therefore negotiate to ensure that this decision does not apply. the european union is not responsible for the increase in world steel and aluminium production. moreover, as an ally of the united states, it poses no threat to its economy or interests. on the other hand, if these efforts and negotiations fail, then we are obliged to take measures to protect steel and aluminium products produced in the european union. if this effort fails, then we will have an aggravation of the already existing economic war between india, china, the european union and the united states, which will cause a political crisis.
madam president, i listened very carefully to the whole debate and to mrs mogherini's speech. thank you for the report we received today on the latest developments in paris. however, it should be said that the situation in libya is not going very well so far. the promise of early elections is great, but the elections themselves are very far away, we will need to support the actors so that the process of preparing for the elections is carried out objectively, so that the elections are held independently and, above all, as you yourself have said, ms mogherini, so that the individual actors recognize the election result. so this meeting today is a good promise, but please let's be very active now in the whole process of free elections in libya and not just leave it to the individual actors of the libyan civil war. i have to say, as i perceive the atmosphere in the czech republic, many citizens of the czech republic, europeans, feel that the european union in the situation in libya could be more active and we could have done more to resolve the atmosphere and the situation in that country.
madam president, the western military intervention in libya in 2011 literally tore that country apart. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in a way that is consistent with the principles of the european union. i think that the initiatives of the un and the european union, and of course the paris conference, to find a solution to the libyan question are important. there should be national reconciliation, there should be a message that the country's wealth-producing resources will be used by the country's own people, that there should be inclusive dialogue, investment, jobs for the young generation and, of course, restoration of institutions, parliament, central bank and all the necessary institutions for the functioning of a democratic regime and, of course, free elections.
madam president, the wrong way in which the french government of president sarkozy intervened militarily in libya, and then other european union countries such as the united kingdom, germany and the united states, was the main reason for the current chaotic situation in the country. libya was and still is a rich country, which was trying to negotiate with the european union. but at the moment it has become the main entry point for illegal immigrants from the african continent into the european union. at the same time, the inability of the many armed groups to work together, the conflicts between the tribes, the inability to fight terrorism, and the situation as it is at the moment leave no room for improvement. it is utopian to think that we can solve the libyan problem. the un and the european union are doing a good job and should at least continue to do so in order to prevent the situation from worsening.
mr president, when the schengen area was first created, many people thought it was one of the greatest achievements of the european union. it is true that the free movement of people, goods and materials between the countries of the european union is a particularly attractive development and one which is desired by all. the schengen agreement is not a treaty, but a basic condition for the schengen treaty to be in force is the security of the external borders. the european union's wise men have ignored this basic prerequisite, have taken away the responsibility for border security from the countries on the external borders and have entrusted this delicate task to a totally incompetent, useless and, as it has turned out, dangerous organisation, which goes by the name of frontex. the fatal consequence of frontex's failure was to flood italy and, above all, greece with illegal immigrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if the european union wants to save the schengen treaty, it must do two things: first, it must force turkey not to send illegal immigrants to greece and, secondly, it must re-commit the security of the external borders to the countries responsible.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen acquis is fully implemented. in the external field, frontex is not functioning properly. at the moment, according to current figures, 16 627 people are on the aegean islands, 3 274 of them on samos. there is frontex on all the islands and it is obvious that it cannot guarantee the protection of the borders. you'll say the maritime border has problems. i agree with you. on evro, which is the land border, we have a huge increase in inflows. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. secondly, there is reintroduction at the internal borders. what about the checks here at the strasbourg airport ? there are three years. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of checks on the identity of all members of the european parliament. will this situation continue? the situation is also unacceptable: german and belgian quarantine against greek passengers arriving at german airports and brussels. will this situation continue? this is unacceptable.
the schengen area is virtually empty and only a formal declaration is pending, while the ports of entry and the countries which protect the external borders, such as greece, are unduly burdened by the massive influx of illegal immigrants, despite the scandalous satisfactions of the irrational turkey with the union. but it confuses basic concepts. the free movement of persons is a right which has been granted to citizens. border control is a matter for the states, and it is the state's responsibility to achieve and maintain security and a sense of security within its territory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. on the contrary, rules are needed to ensure that passers-by have the right to do so. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive on the rights of victims is an important institutional achievement, mr president, because it protects the rights of the victims themselves, there are specific rules and, of course, specific procedural rights, such as access to justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the victims are respected. in this context, as described in the directive and in the recommendations made, specific measures must be taken to protect victims of trafficking in human beings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are protected and that the various traffickers are severely punished. at the same time, there should be protection for victims of gender-based violence, in particular victims of domestic violence, and in this context the istanbul convention can provide concrete answers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner.
in writing. every day in europe many of our fellow citizens are victims of serious crime, but only a small number of such crimes, with the exception of minor offences, are reported to the police. the correct application of the european directive laying down the binding obligations of the member states for victims of violence, terrorism, hate crimes, sexual abuse and trafficking in human beings is only the minimum necessary response of any democratic society to protect the rights not only of the victims themselves but also of their families. moreover, the protection of the rights of victims of crime should not be limited to the strict time limits of a criminal trial but must be provided for life. a universal approach across the european union is therefore required to put victims of such inhumane acts at the centre of the criminal justice system and to strengthen their rights by providing them with the same level of protection regardless of where the crime was committed. we need to build trust and help victims to report crime, while both criminal justice systems and societal actors need to work together to provide support to victims to rebuild their lives.
mr president, the european union's trade protectionist measures are instruments to ensure that the monopoly groups it represents are given an advantage in their competition with their competitors, in particular the united states, china and russia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. recent episodes of this competition include the us tariffs on china and vice versa, the new sanctions against russia, the united states tariffs, brexit and the negotiations, the iran deal and the european union's countermeasures. as economic warfare intensifies, so does the danger of its continuing on military battlefields. the people who pay for the imperialist competition for profits with cruel exploitation and bloodshed are the big losers. their interest is not to choose an imperialist, it is to overthrow the capitalist barbarity to take the economy and power in their hands.
mr president, the european union has finally decided to wake up from its slumber, it has decided to activate trade defence instruments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are certain countries - china, india, turkey - which are literally distorting competition, engaging in unfair practices, engaging in dumping practices. of course, there are also many countries which do not meet the specific criteria relating to environmental protection, the application of labour legislation, the application of the protection of health and safety of workers. in addition, there must be measures to prevent foreign investment in strategic sectors within the european union. if all this is really implemented, then we can hope that something, possibly, will happen.
mr president, international trade can contribute to growth and employment when it is fair, when it is based on mutual benefit and when it does not follow unfair practices. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. at the same time, the future of public enterprises is at stake. in addition, we have seen various countries seeking to shape trade policy without respecting environmental standards, and at the same time, their obligations under legislation to protect the workers themselves. we have also seen an attempt to bring mutants into the european union. you understand that trade policy cannot proceed under these conditions.
the european union's future, mr prime minister, is uncertain as long as opinions such as those we hear here today prevail and, above all, as long as actions such as those we have seen in recent years are being taken. the european union is trying to stifle any different view that supports national policies, calling them populist, eurosceptic and extremist. what happened a few days ago in italy is essentially a coup d'état with the support, if not the guidance, of berlin and brussels and it has destroyed the last pretexts that the ruling political class has been trying to maintain. no, commissioner oettinger, the markets will not teach the italians how to vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems that democracy is only good when citizens don't decide to turn against your wishes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all remember the unacceptable and clearly blackmailing attitude of the institutions against greece, despite the will of the greek people as expressed in the july 2015 referendum. we also remember the ongoing attempt to overturn brexit, and the pressure that many are trying to turn into sanctions against poland and hungary, simply because the people are deciding differently from the plans of the brussels nomenclature. with attitudes like this, you can be sure that the days of the european union in its present form are numbered and you will bear the burden of the responsibility that is due to you. finally, mr prime minister, if you will be so kind as to inform me, always in the context of european solidarity, when will the grand duchy of luxembourg be transformed into a normal country and cease to be a tax haven, a haven for the profits of the big multinationals at the expense of the rest of the peoples of europe?
mr prime minister, welcome to parliament! you mentioned during your speech that national sovereignty is part of globalisation. given that globalisation is based on the disintegration of states and nations, i find this position contradictory. do you think that in the future the european states should become the subjects and the handlers of a world government or something else? you also said, quite rightly, that there must be security at the external borders. but how can this be done when this responsibility has been taken away from the external border states and given to frontex, whose mission has failed miserably, as the data so far have shown? how do you think the european union should deal with the issue of illegal immigration as a whole, so that greece ceases to be a place of concentration and permanent settlement of illegal immigrants? how many illegal immigrants does luxembourg actually host? what do you think the future of europe will be like when the principle of unanimity is abolished and europe is transformed into a two-, three- or multi-speed europe? the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
mr president, the fishermen in greece are facing a great many problems, mainly because of the anti-people policy of the memoranda, and of course they are now impoverished. but at the same time, they face other challenges, as turkish fishing vessels are literally conducting piracy. together with the protection of the turkish coastguard, they illegally enter greek territorial waters and fish illegally. this is happening all over the aegean. it occurs with great emphasis in the region of imios, but also in the region of thassos. in addition, another serious problem is the import of turkish fishery products, which are caught illegally, as turkish fishing vessels do not comply with the standards and prohibitions that exist in fisheries matters. the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the derogation to the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2000. it's unacceptable, it's illegal and it has to stop.
mr president, in relation to the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the same resources, it should be noted that the european union is setting increasingly ambitious targets. this means that the hard-core states, which earn billions from the operation of the european union and the eurozone, must put their hands deep in their pockets. the budget of the european union must be strengthened and exceed 2% of the union's gdp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. support cohesion and measures for migration and youth employment. at the same time, to those who want cuts, we say cut the funds for turkey. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to finance its own budget. no money in turkey.
the schengen agreement has failed completely, mr president. germany, france, austria, denmark and belgium have reintroduced internal controls. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council. the commission has also given full legitimacy to this, since in our continuous protests and in the questions we have put the commission considers that this is a purportedly legal procedure. what schengen function are we talking about? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the schengen system has therefore been a complete failure. at the same time, the famous frontex does nothing. the aegean islands are full of refugees and illegal immigrants and frontex is just watching. she's there with all her might. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship. the aegean islands can 't take it anymore .
mr president, many in the european union, who by their actions and omissions are responsible for turning many european union countries into tax havens, as well as into 'laundries' for large amounts of illicit money, come with great hypocrisy to accuse some other countries of promoting corruption because they grant foreigners golden visas. what a nice way to discharge their responsibilities! i mention this because my country, greece, is a prime example. the country, whose people are suffering from the austerity imposed on them by the memoranda, is forced to sell its houses at very low prices, even at half their real value. others lose their homes because they can't afford to pay off their loans, and all these houses are bought by wealthy foreigners. chinese, mostly, russians, even turks. the european union is therefore aware of the enormous responsibility it bears for this situation and is now accusing us of promoting corruption. moreover, he comes to accuse the country that it should cede the right to control corruption and control it .... )
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the european civil protection mechanism is one of the most important programmes in the european union and is a typical example of practical solidarity both between the member states of the union and with third countries. unfortunately, however, in its present form it cannot meet the challenge of the ever-increasing natural disasters caused by climate change. already in this century we have twice experienced the worst floods in recent years. in 2017 alone, more than 200 people lost their lives to natural disasters. more than half of them died in deadly fires in portugal, where no union country could send aid. today, in a tragic irony, we voted to activate the solidarity fund to repair the damage. the role of the european union cannot be limited to this. the citizens need the union's support when they are in danger, not just afterwards. we therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to strengthen the mechanism by creating resceu, a pool of last-resort capabilities to be activated when all national resources have been exhausted and the remaining member states are unable to help. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. at the same time, the creation of resceu is an opportunity to prepare for future risks. at the same time, we should help member states to strengthen their prevention infrastructure by setting up credible response plans. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the european civil protection mechanism and resceu are not coming to replace national civil protection authorities, but to ensure that, even in extreme situations where national capabilities are not enough, the european union will be there to protect its citizens. finally, i would like to thank mrs gardini very much for the cooperation we have had.
mr president, the european union and governments are setting up 'resceu' on the basis of the need for personnel, equipment and infrastructure to deal with natural disasters in the states, and you make strange references to the fight against so-called terrorism and to refugees. the fleet is being built by committing the very few existing infrastructures and aircraft to the member states, which will now be at the disposal of the european union and not of each state, widening the huge shortages, such as those in greece, which lead to tragedies with dead. but it is known, for example, that forest fires are put out by well-organized, trained, and adequate ground forces, whereas aerial firefighting is required to contain the fire until ground forces arrive. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of natural disasters is based on the principle of the protection of the environment against natural disasters. we therefore demand, with the responsibility of the state, that adequate funding be provided by hiring permanent staff, with full rights and proper equipment to cover all real needs.
mr president, the debate on the european civil protection mechanism is particularly timely, especially at a time when climate change is leading to disasters, floods and fires. greece, of course, has had a bad experience with the theocracies. first of all, it's affected by earthquakes. as you know, in june 2017, we had devastating earthquakes in lesvos and, of course, today the european parliament can tell the residents of lesvos that, with its decision today, it has allocated 1.3 million euros to support the repair of homes, to support businesses and the infrastructure of the island. the same cannot be said, of course, of the 23 victims who drowned in the mandras floods. it is therefore obvious that coordination is needed, that the civil protection mechanism needs to be supported, while at the same time, of course, preserving the sovereignty of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market.
mr president, the falsification of the car's odometer is a blatant fraud. it is a huge loss for the consumers themselves, but also for the traders. we have, as has been said, a loss of some nine billion euros. it is very dangerous because it is linked to road safety and creates problems for the protection of the environment. there is exemplary punishment for counterfeiters. this should apply to all member states. if there were exemplary punishments, if there were, in this case, a regulation for a criminal offence, it is obvious that few would attempt it. if we had the secondary punishment of seizing and confiscating the vehicle, i think that no one would have dared to go through with this procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i should point out that all the cases we have discussed do not involve the transfer of undertakings because of the natural conditions of production. in practice, relocations are caused by social dumping, tax dumping and environmental dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because there they will find either tax incentives or tax rulings, that is, specific rulings that give them the opportunity not to pay taxes. this is the reality. at the same time, these companies - usually multinationals - also use european funds, either they have received european funds to set up in the first country and then, using these funds, they leave and go to other regions where they have better tax treatment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
madam president, according to the european court of auditors, the billions of euros of pre-accession financial assistance to turkey have had limited effects. due to sultan erdoğan, the funds allocated did not meet fundamental needs such as the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, the fight against high-level corruption and organized crime, freedom of the press and the prevention of conflicts of interest. the commission's minimum obligation is to adopt a clause to suspend pre-accession aid as long as turkey is openly violating the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the policy of appeasement and the transfer of powers for a fee to countries like turkey has failed. peace and security cannot be bought with money. it didn't work then, and it doesn't work now. good intentions and the soft power of humanitarian values do not stand in the way of brutal physical violence when borders and sovereignty are undermined and illegal immigrants are promoted as another trojan horse. it requires a direct and direct response with deeds and actions against every threat and not subservient compliance to every kind of demand.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to recall the words of president juncker: the path of integration of a country is not a simple one, it is a decision that is made for an entire generation. dear friends, our attitude towards a country is not a switch to flip it on and off whenever we want. at a time like this, before a crucial upcoming election, they don't talk about money. the first thing to do is to demand that the turkish government hold fair and free elections. a prominent turkish politician said yesterday (the speaker is speaking in turkish) or to put it in european terms: 'to where? we're going to europe. how did you do that ? with democracy and personal freedoms. i would like to hear this from all turkish citizens or politicians and add to that peace and security in our region. the turkish people, the 79% who want their country to be part of the european union, must be told that we are not abandoning those who look to us for help. the european union is hereby declared present.
madam president, the common finding of the relevant institutions of the european union, such as the european court of auditors, the commission and others, is that the mechanism for pre-accession assistance to turkey is not producing the expected results. instead of progress, there is serious backwardness in this country in terms of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, freedom of the press, political corruption, etc. many billions of euros of union aid to turkey have been squandered over the last decade. the only result is that the erdoğan regime is becoming increasingly fragile and is now following the practices of a terrorist organization, as happened in the case of the taking, in effect, of the two greek soldiers as hostages with the aim of exchanging them for turkish fugitives. the european union must stop giving financial aid to turkey so that the turkish authorities realise that they cannot play us with impunity.
madam president, three months ago i raised the subject we are discussing today in a written question. but i have not yet received an answer, mr commissioner. the use of european funds to finance the purchase of armoured reconnaissance vehicles by the turkish government is contrary both to the spirit of the european treaties and to common sense. turkey is a country where human rights are constantly violated. such vehicles can be used in internal security operations against its citizens. they also serve the needs of identifying maneuvering formations in combat operations, such as those currently being conducted in syria. it is incomprehensible that at a time when turkey continues to hold two greek soldiers illegally, violates the sovereign rights of cyprus and has illegally invaded syria, we should finance the purchase of such vehicles. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this has got to stop. otherwise, you'll be jointly responsible for the turkish provocation. this money should be used only for social purposes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has found the european union and is getting six billion euros for refugees, while it is encouraging the slave trade and filling greece with thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. it is making use of the european investment bank's low-interest loans, taking in eur 2,3 billion in 2016. it is making use of the funds of the pre-accession process and using these funds for armored vehicles for non-political purposes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are we going to put up with all this ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. sanctions against the sultan and his entourage. ban on arms sales to turkey.
madam president, gender equality and women's empowerment can indeed be supported by the european union in its external relations. this clearly means that it should send a message to various countries with which it has trade relations, for example pakistan and bangladesh. there are no labour rights there. women, even little girls, work there. they work in the factories of the multinationals. but if the european union wants to send a message, it must ban imports into the european union of products produced there. secondly, we have fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries, in which women are effectively enslaved. why should these countries be rewarded? development aid to countries that violate women's rights must stop. practical measures and not much theory. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) ) )
answer to a question with a blue card. my dear colleague, what do you say? that we should allow the violation of human rights, accept that there is child labour in bangladesh in the name, allegedly, of getting a "dried up piece", getting starvation wages. this is an unacceptable notion. we must not accept that there is a violation of labour rights and child labour. that's a vertical view. so you want child labor in the name of, supposedly, these kids getting a "shred" to live on?
madam president, the european union of millions of poor, socially excluded young people, who are increasingly, as it admits, accelerating its attack with the so-called european pillar of social rights and reactionary programmes for young people. the aim is to integrate them voluntarily and with participation into the barbarism imposed on them through social dialogue, the poison of business and euro-mediterranean consciousness. cheap, flexible work for life, opportunities, not entitlement work. the report also mentions the division of unemployment, the forced shift of old workers to parttime work as trainers of the young. instead of education, pseudo-training, informal apprenticeship of temporary skills designed by the industrialists themselves for their needs, as demanded yesterday by their association in greece, and mobility-wandering, alternating unemployment, training with a little work, alternating, companies, professions and country. so, a rooted immigrant, not a cosmopolitan european, as you say. the european union's market and exploitation world will only provide young people with a way out of the system of organized struggle for their own overthrow, with permanent jobs with rights and modern education for their needs.
the european union is full of armies of poor and unemployed young people. eurostat data, as of february 2018, shows youth unemployment in greece at 45%, in spain at 35.5%, in italy at 32.8%. in contrast, youth unemployment in germany is 6.2% and in the netherlands 7.2%. at the same time, 1.6 million people are looking for work in germany, as there are vacancies. what does that prove ? the functioning of the eurozone is in fact leading to the bleeding of the european south and to trade surpluses in the hard core. if we really want to support young people and create jobs, we must abandon austerity and forced budgetary adjustment. the eurozone must be restructured and no longer serve german europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms. a generous increase in funding for youth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i think it is rightly extended to the whole of the circular economy. this is very important because we have the following positive actions. first of all, increased environmental protection. secondly, the creation of new jobs. third, we get rid of all the garbage. it is clear that when we have recycling of raw materials, recycling of products, we are being led into a different era, an era which has real issues in relation to the control of these products themselves, their repairability and their efficiency. of course, all of this needs labelling, it needs updating of the consumer channel itself and, through labelling, one can make the right choices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to take into account many aspects of the economy itself and many aspects of the operation of businesses and factories. in any case, this is a positive step which must be supported. i would also like to hear a reply, commissioner, to the questions raised by my colleagues about the incandescent lamps in theatres.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for your contributions to this debate. i would like to address two specific issues that were raised in the debate. let me start with the problems of theatre lighting, which has been raised by many members: mr palmer, ms reid, mr gericke, mr marias, amongst others. i would say that for two years the commission has been reviewing the ecodesign legislation for lighting. this also covers the application of exemptions, as well as the existence of suitable replacements available on the market. in december 2017, revision proposals were discussed in the ecodesign consultation forum, consisting of representatives from member states, industry, civil society and other partners. the commission is receiving and analysing comments, including those we received in the context of the public consultation, which ran until 7 may this year. the commission also met with representatives from the theatre and entertainment sector to discuss their concerns. the outcome of those consultations will inform the further development of the ecodesign requirements, including whether a specific exemption for theatre lighting continues to be necessary. ms reid, mr telička and mr kelly also raised the issue of ict products. i would say that in the ecodesign working plan 2016-2019 the commission announced a more in-depth assessment of several ict products with a view to their possible inclusion in the working plan, including gateways, base stations and mobile smart phones. the main reason for a specific assessment of ict products is that it has proven very difficult to make a reliable estimate of their energy savings potential, given the uncertainty about future market developments. moreover, for fast-moving product sectors such as mobile phones, questions have arisen as to the suitability of the ecodesign process for establishing minimum energy and resource efficiency criteria, because, as this process takes on average around four years, the risk is that requirements would be updated by the time they enter into force. the commission has started this assessment, for example with a study that looks specifically at the material efficiency aspect of smart phones. based on the outcomes of this assessment, the commission will determine the best policy approach for improving the energy efficiency and wider circular economy aspects of mobile phones and other ict products. i will conclude by saying that i look forward to continue working with the european parliament to improve the implementation of this policy framework.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the response to the reports on tackling insecurity and the misuse of fixed-term contracts, tabled by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000054/2018 - b8-0022/2018) (2018/2600(rsp)
member of the commission. – mr president, addressing precarious work remains high on the commission’s agenda. i referred to the debate which took place in july 2017 when parliament adopted its resolution on working conditions and precarious employment. the commission has provided comprehensive answers to your resolution and has also proposed new initiatives. our priority now is to ensure that the prosperity generated by the recovering european economy benefits society fairly. we made huge efforts and the economy is growing again. but we are not done yet; we must ensure that no one is left behind. this is the essence of the european pillar of social rights, jointly proclaimed in november last year. today’s debate is essentially about our ability to bring the pillar agenda forward together – in the commission, parliament and the council. on the commission side, in recent years we have set milestones in the social area. before the end of this mandate, we must show eu citizens, in a very tangible way, our determination to make the union fairer and more inclusive. we should not ignore the fact that precarious work has a toll, not only on individuals but on our societies and economies as a whole. the union has developed and extended its response to this issue over the years. it has done so through specific eu directives on non-standard forms of work and through enhanced cooperation and coordination with the member states. this cooperation includes the european platform on undeclared work. this year we issued country-specific recommendations in the european semester on tackling the informal and shadow economy for bulgaria and italy. the european social fund provides financial support for disadvantaged youth or the long-term unemployed. let me assure you that the commission is strongly committed to ensuring compliance across the eu. where necessary, we initiate infringement proceedings, which may ultimately lead the commission to refer the matter to the court. the work undertaken by the committee on petitions strongly supports and influences our efforts to ensure effective action is undertaken. thank you so much for this support. we took concrete actions and put forward a comprehensive set of proposals: firstly, for a directive on predictable and transparent working conditions; secondly, for a council recommendation on access to social protection for workers and the self-employed; and thirdly, for a regulation establishing a european labour authority. through these initiatives, we want to prevent eu workers from being subjected to unfair and precarious working conditions by guaranteeing basic standards for all workers, including workers subject to particularly flexible forms of employment, such as on-demand work or zero-hour contracts; by ensuring social protection coverage regardless of the employment status; and by supporting administrative cooperation and better information to enforce existing rules. all workers in non-standard forms of employment must benefit from these basic standards. current eu rules often leave their scope to be determined by national law, which has left out too many workers from protection. it is essential for our initiatives on working conditions that all workers are covered. this legislative work must be pursued with utmost celerity so that we make these further steps towards fairness and inclusiveness in employment together before the elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, austerity and violent budgetary adjustment have filled europe with armies and millions of poor and unemployed. at the same time, they have led to lower wages and the breakdown of industrial relations. the famous post-war european goals of full employment have now become goals and applications in the field of parttime work, informal work, precarious work, fixed-term work, zero-hour contracts. so we have a complete misuse of both the directive 1999/70/ec on fixed-term contracts and of european labour law as a whole. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on social affairs and employment. we welcome yesterday's great strike in greece and the mobilizations of workers who sent a decisive message to the syriza-anel government that there is no more to be done on the issue of industrial relations. the armies of contractors in greece and the problem of thousands of workers in apprenticeship programmes demonstrate the enormity of the problem. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, which is being discussed in the committee on social affairs and employment, is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will help to ensure that the european union's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, which will make it possible to reduce the number of people who are exposed to asbestos at work. we must not allow the function of fixed-term contracts to be abused. not in the working jungle.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the directive does not promise permanent employment. it's a myth. on the contrary, it threatens and punishes with a supposed obligation to permanently employ anyone who does not regularly recycle more unemployed people. the vast majority of new recruits are temporary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. as a government, it uses it to fire thousands of contractors in the municipalities. the commission, in reply to questions from the committee, clarifies that the directive does not provide for the conversion of fixedterm contracts into open-ended contracts. the european union does not recognize the right to permanent and stable employment. the resolution itself speaks of not imposing a burden on employers, whose role is being upgraded, and of maintaining the flexibility of the labour market. so, the myths are over. workers' struggle for permanent work with rights, and the abolition of all forms of flexible employment.
mr president, whenever i am in greece i am confronted with the desperation of workers in precarious conditions. women over 50 with temporary work contracts of over 15 years. unpaid professors on nine-month contracts. others with contracts for only two days a week. we have the workers who are hired in the morning and fired in the afternoon. that's happening elsewhere. in countries that didn't have memoranda, we know. but the stamina is running out. there must be a convincing answer. the eurobarometer tells us that 75% of citizens are not satisfied with the prospects in europe. people can't wait any longer. you'll meet it in front of you if you don't change policy. i would ask you, therefore, what are the european union institutions doing in practice for vulnerable workers?
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. instead of protecting workers' rights, it tries to restrict them. a few years ago, issues such as job insecurity, the misuse of fixed-term contracts, zero-hour contracts were unknown. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. all this is done to reduce wages and pensions and to force european workers to accept the demands of an anti-working class and anti-people system of work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's internal borders. all of these are putting pressure on young europeans to either accept the status quo or remain unknown. i would like to believe that the brains behind this unacceptable situation will be given an appropriate answer at the next european elections.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 may.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the situation of dual-citizens (eu-iran) in iran (2018/2717 ((rsp))
mr president, i support the resolution, which i am also a co-signer of. the violation of human rights in saudi arabia is on the agenda. there is no freedom of the press, no freedom of expression for activists. above all, there is a systematic suppression of the rights of women, who until recently could not even drive a car by themselves. there's a process of male guardianship, as they say. so, in order for women to travel internationally, to access health care services, to have the right to choose residence and to lodge complaints, they must first get permission from either a husband, father or brother. it is obvious, then, that this situation in saudi arabia cannot continue. there is a systematic violation of women's rights and, of course, the seven women activists mentioned in the resolution have been wrongly accused and arrested. release them immediately!
mr president, commissioner, in saudi arabia, dissidents are arrested and tortured, as is unfortunately the case with the sakharov prize winner, raif badawi. the death penalty is being carried out at an ever-increasing rate and human rights are being violated in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. officially and hypocritically, the regime announces reforms to grant rights to women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an unacceptable situation which must end and for this very reason the european union must intervene. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union must not allow the united states to continue to be the sole source of arms sales to saudi arabia.
mr president, i support the resolution, which i have also co-signed. the tragic case of noura hussein hammad highlights the serious problem of forced marriage of women in sudan and other muslim and african countries. the mobilization of a million of our fellow citizens, demanding a fair trial and at the same time not executing noura's death sentence, shows a great movement of solidarity. the european parliament has been a great supporter of the european union, and it has also been a supporter of the european parliament. it is clear that this anachronistic and coercive institution of forced marriages, where girls are forced to marry at the age of 10, 12 or 13 without even wanting to, must be stopped and, of course, cannot be allowed to continue in europe, but it cannot be allowed to continue in the specific countries where it is practised. commissioner, stop giving funds to sudan.
mr president, we have not decided whether we want to have this debate in the first place. you are asking two questions: whether the debate will be on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting or the one for the day after tomorrow. first of all, we have to vote on whether we want this debate to take place, because there are some here who want to discredit the right of the italian government to ban certain ngos from smuggling migrants into italy. i think we must first vote if we want to have this debate.
mr president, thousands of flights take place every day in the skies of the member states of the union with millions of passengers. the importance of these flights, whether passenger or commercial, for the economies of the countries is enormous and of course irreplaceable. but we must ensure that all these routes are made with the highest possible level of safety for both passengers and crews of aircraft. i must stress that i am clearly in favour of coordination between the various civil aviation services of the member states, as this coordination can save lives. i therefore welcome the establishment of a pan-european body to coordinate the respective national bodies. but it should have a purely coordinating role and should in no case be responsible for the control of airspace itself, since airspace is part of the territory of each member state and the granting of control is a clear concession of national sovereignty. and especially in cases like greece, where turkey is challenging the sovereignty of my country, ceding control would mathematically result in the loss of national territory. finally, with regard to unmanned aircraft: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's airspace is not subject to the same restrictions as the airspace of the member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 june 2018.
the next item is the report by mr damiano zoffoli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on co2 emissions and fuel consumption from new heavy-duty vehicles (com (2017) 0279 - c8-0168/2017 - 2017/0111 (cod)) (a8-0010/2018)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, today in the field of education, as a result of the anti-people and anti-social policies that have been and are being implemented in the european union and in the member states, we are witnessing the following: a general deterioration of education policies and underfunding of public education, a reduction in the employment rights of teachers and professors, an increase in the proportion of socially excluded citizens and an increase in the phenomenon of brain drain from greece and the other countries of the south, the promotion of individualism at the expense of collective consciousness, education systems with the primary purpose of serving the needs of the labour market, students full of anxiety and anxiety because of the very difficult situation they will face afterwards. these policies in the context of neoliberal policies and austerity policies aim to create even greater inequalities and even greater concentration of wealth in the hands of a few. modernisation of education, if it is to be in the interest of the many, must have as its essential preconditions: a bold increase in public spending on education policies, ensuring access for all at all levels of education, education systems centred on pupils and students rather than on market demands, and strengthening policies to combat youth unemployment.
mr president, today we are discussing the future of education and how europe can strengthen its supporting role. i am very pleased that my colleague, mrs łybacka, in the committee on culture and education, has seen the problems of education with depth and courage and has given the right direction to this most european issue. apart from the usual but important issues, such as closer cooperation between universities and the mobility of teachers and students, i should like to emphasize the funding objectives of at least 5% of the member states' gdp by 2025. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of education and training, and that it is able to take action in the field of education and training. the evidence can explain very convincingly why this goal is needed: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is clear that in a single market these balances are affecting the weakest. as the debate on the next multiannual budget of the union has begun, we must demand the investment instruments for the next period, which must be adequately oriented towards the ultimate objective of education. the rapporteur rightly emphasizes and pays particular attention to pre-school education. in schools, curricula should focus on the needs of the student, not the teacher. the rapporteur's proposal, which i support, to set up a european network of universities is also worth mentioning, so that the european educational area can become innovative, vital and attractive, as is the case with proper education.
mr president, the education of young people has been a fundamental concern of all states since ancient times, since they wanted to create educated young people with ethics and abilities, so that they could ensure the survival of the state and the nation. this need exists in our day and age. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. we see that because of the increase in costs and tuition fees, students' access to higher education is very limited throughout europe, and especially in southern europe and greece. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud and corruption. young people are forced to choose jobs other than those they studied, to choose jobs with degrading working conditions and wages or to remain unemployed. all of this must be addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we do not do this, we risk destroying both this generation and the next.
the european union, madam president, has become a spearhead of developments, which it is more likely to follow than to shape. it is demonstrated by the expected but poorly prepared conflict with the us at the g7 summit, its inappropriate and destructive reactions in the event of the annexation of crimea by russia, its manipulation of turkey in its blackmailing with arms, illegal immigration, the fight against daesh resulting in the increase in terrorism. to all this must be added the underground blackmail of a politically non-existent, criminally national, left-wing greek government, which says 'yes' to everyone, just to stay in power. a blackmail by the union through germany on the issue of the name of skopje, promoted without taking into account that any appropriation of the greek name of macedonia could trigger armed conflict and instability in the balkans. if we want a united europe, we must not rely on the principle of 'divide and rule' in the interests of the economic interests of certain countries, but on the needs and demands of our citizens.
the european council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation of refugees in the mediterranean. and that means that dublin iii, which has turned greece and italy into a vast storehouse of souls, must be abolished here and now. greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the aegean islands and evros have been flooded by thousands of illegal immigrants. but until the european council decides to act, greece must invoke article 72 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union for reasons of public order and security and suspend the operation of dublin iii and the schengen agreement, so that greece finally stops being a magnet for the thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants that erdogan and the slave traders are channelling into our country.
the european council is expected to take no substantive decisions this time, mr president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also doing so on the serious issue of illegal immigration. instead of taking decisions and measures to stop the continuing flows, mainly to italy and greece, it is watching the situation with apathy, seeing some states closing their borders and leaving the countries of entry to deal with the problem on their own. now most countries in the european union blame italy for doing the obvious to protect the country. but three days ago, when erdogan denounced the agreement with greece to return some illegal immigrants, no one reacted. who has the right to turn greece into a vast camp of impoverished, illegal immigrants? and if at some point greece takes action and closes its borders, what then? will greece be accused of being xenophobic?
mr president, at a time when the syriza-anel government, with the substantial agreement of the other bourgeois parties despite their insignificant differences in communication, is voting in the greek parliament for a fourth long-term memorandum, re-engaging the people, re-supporting capital, the debate here in the european parliament on deepening monetary union proves that the permanent memoranda are not a greek peculiarity but a general strategy of capital coordinated by the european union. the esm is being transformed into the equally barbarous european monetary fund. the single economic governance, the budgetary pact, the european semester, the euro pact, i.e. the ironclad rules for monitoring the anti-people policies of governments, are being incorporated into community law and national legislation. the aim is to get the people to agree to permanent memoranda, to turn their backs on the profits of the monopolies, at the cost of bloody sacrifices. monopolies, the european union, bourgeois governments and memoranda are the same thing. for the people, a clean exit from the eu means organising, fighting back, withdrawing from the european union, freeing themselves from the memoranda and their authority.
mr president, the eurozone has led to an accumulation of wealth in the hard core countries and to a huge economic drain on the countries of the european periphery. it has filled the european south with armies of poor and unemployed people and germany with oversized trade surpluses. the european union must not only abandon austerity and violent fiscal adjustment, but also change the structure of the eurozone and abolish the draconian stability pact. the european central bank must be transformed into the lender of last resort for the member states, with provision for the issuing of eurobonds. in addition, the european system of central banks must be decentralised and the member states of the european union, and in particular the euro area, must regain their monetary sovereignty so that the national central banks can conduct their own monetary policy up to the level of each national central bank's share in the european central bank's capital.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, what you propose - and the council is hammering it down and limiting it further and postponing it - is too little too late, because the obsession with neoliberal policies and the refusal to make the necessary changes in the content of policy and in structures are feeding the growing social and regional inequalities and are inflating the sails of the far right. you saw it in the courtroom. we need a turn to growth, deepening european integration, a strong european budget, strengthening democratic accountability, a european monetary fund that is accountable to the european parliament, a european deposit guarantee scheme, without which there is no banking integration. the rejection of these changes by the neoliberal dogmatism and the national egoism of the right-wing german government is detrimental to development, to european integration and only benefits the far right.
mr president, i would like to refer again to the question of interpreters. the question is not just where the european parliament meets. the european parliament has demonstrated its supposedly democratic sensibility. he prohibited workers from exercising their right to strike. this is democracy! workers working in unacceptable conditions, 12 hours, no breaks, moving many miles on one-day contracts. this decision must be condemned unanimously! the european parliament's decision must now be withdrawn! let the workers go! the injunction is lifted! we express our solidarity with our working colleagues in the european parliament.
mr president, the european union is discussing common rules in the field of civil aviation and the provisions on the european union aviation safety agency, but at the same time it is turning a blind eye to what is happening in the aegean, where turkey is violating greek airspace. turkish fighters are breaching the athens fir every day. they don't follow the rules when it comes to flying. the turkish warplanes are harassing not only military aircraft but also civilian aircraft flying over athens fir. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of flights in the aegean is not compromised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air traffic control system is not disrupted, and that the european union's air traffic control system is not disrupted.
mr president, the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme is undoubtedly perhaps the greatest success of the european union's foreign policy, because, in addition to controlling iran's nuclear programme and activities, it laid the foundations for a peaceful solution to the middle east problem and at the same time made possible trade relations with iran. large companies such as airbus and total have signed trade deals, the country's economy has grown and strengthened, 700 000 jobs have been added and iran has allocated part of the funds to combating terrorism. for all of the above reasons, president trump's decision to unilaterally withdraw the united states from the agreement is fraught with risks. first, iran is threatening to unilaterally withdraw from any other agreement it has signed with other countries and to resume its nuclear programme at national level, and it has recently announced its desire to acquire uranium enrichment capabilities. in addition, there is a risk of a repeat of the clashes between the us and iranian navies in the persian gulf.
the commission is also aware that the united states has not yet ratified the nuclear agreement with the european union, and that the united states has not yet ratified the agreement with the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means strengthening europe's anti-nuclear position, but strengthening it with action. the first minimum would be for all the member states of the union to accede to the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. let us not forget that only austria has so far ratified it. if you are really interested in peace in the region, mr commissioner, put pressure on your important partner, as you call it, israel, which has not even joined the first non-proliferation treaty. let us do the very little that will prove the reliability of our intentions.
madam president, iran: another arena of fierce competition for the profits of capital. the agreement does not accommodate the interests of all the suitors for control of the wealth of this country. that is why the united states is torpedoing the agreement, while the european union, germany, france and russia, which have won many and large contracts for their monopolies, are trying to safeguard it by imposing conditions on iran at the same time. the danger is great, considering the intensity of israel's aggression, which is murdering the palestinian people, bombing syria and making threats against the iranian people under the cover of the european union, the united states and nato. from these rivalries and these alliances the people will know only loss and bloodshed. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the convention.
mr president, the protection of human rights and democracy throughout the world must be done with deeds and not with words. the fact that there is only one report with wish lists does not mean anything. the european union must draw conclusions and impose sanctions. and i am referring specifically to turkey, which is violating democratic rights, violating human rights. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in this area. the european union must take action, there must be direct sanctions, the sale of military equipment to turkey must be banned, any possibility of european funds being given to turkey must be banned, the european investment bank must stop giving low-interest loans to turkey, all pre-accession aid must be stopped. only then will the sultan understand!
the question is "blue card". i thank you, mr. chairman, for accepting my question. it is true that we condemn russia's intervention in georgia. do you also condemn the turkish invasion and occupation of cyprus and the illegal occupation of part of the island for 44 years?
mr president, even the title of today's debate is striking, as it manages to fit so many inaccuracies into one short sentence. a brief historical review will help to reveal the truth: the republics of south ossetia and abkhazia were created during the fall of the soviet union. i believe that the right of peoples to self-determination is unquestionable. but then the government of georgia attacked them. a truce was then reached that kept the peace under the supervision of russian troops. but in 2003, european union-funded ngos staged a coup that overthrew the legitimate government and replaced it with the now-convicted saakashvili of georgia and ukraine, who invaded south ossetia in 2008. so the reality is completely different from what you want to present. in fact, there is no occupation in abkhazia and south ossetia. on the contrary, i believe that the time has come for the international community to welcome back these peoples who have been so unjustly excluded. on the contrary, there is a real continuing occupation in cyprus, but of course there the union is taking a different approach, as turkey is a friend and ally of many governments in europe, so you can easily overlook war crimes there.
madam president, the report on european union-nato relations is revealing and very dangerous, as it gives an account of the war preparations of the two imperialist alliances. the european union is not a military force, but a political force. but the european union and nato are forces of insecurity for the peoples and destabilization in the balkans and the wider region. they have dismantled yugoslavia and are responsible, among many other things, for border changes and the dismantling of states, for massacres of peoples. the european union and nato are increasing their military readiness in the context of competition with russia and china, and are increasing military missions and exercises by generalising so-called military mobility. what does that mean ? the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the last obstacles are removed so that nato and the european union can march their troops across europe without hindrance. pesco, evaluation mechanisms, defence fund shield the independent interests of european groups in competition with the united states, which the report meaningfully labels as misunderstandings of the united states. the peoples in their struggle must be on the alert for any change of borders and disengagement from these wolf alliances. with the people in power, it's the only way!
the european union is a member of nato, and nato is a member of the european union. this is a good thing for cooperation between them, but only in those areas where such cooperation is justified. the european union is a military alliance whose mission is to provide collective defence and must remain so. the european union is facing threats from terrorism, cyber and hybrid attacks, and tackling these problems is primarily the responsibility of the member states, in cooperation with the european union more generally. at the moment no state of the european union faces the threat of attack by a third power, with the exception of greece and cyprus, which are directly threatened by turkey. the european union is not a military alliance. if that happens, relations with nato will be conflicting, but it will have to be explained against whom this alliance will be turned.
madam president, we are discussing relations between the european union and nato, but i have heard nothing from either the rapporteur or mrs mogherini about turkey's aggression against greece. because it is known that turkey threatens my homeland constantly. we have statements from turkish officials that they will also wage war against greece, we have continuous violations of greek airspace and our territorial waters by turkey and above all we have two greek military men who have completed over 100 days of unlawful imprisonment in turkish high security prisons. and turkey is continuing this policy. we must demand the immediate release of the two greek soldiers and denounce turkey for this. i would ask you, mrs mogherini, to make a statement on this subject, calling for the immediate release of the two soldiers.
madam president, i would like to join with the vice-president of the commission, mrs federica mogherini, in announcing to the european parliament an important agreement that was reached a few hours ago. the greek prime minister alexis tsipras and the prime minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, zoran zaev, have realistically, with foresight and courage, reached an agreement which opens up positive avenues for greece and fyrom, for the balkans and for the whole of europe. and i am sure that both the council and the commission and the european parliament, in their overwhelming majority from all political groups, will welcome and support the agreement, not only with positive statements, as vice-president federica mogherini has already done, but also with the practical support of both peoples. today, an important positive step has been taken.
madam president, defence against cyberattacks is indeed a major challenge in the modern age. i would like to draw the commission's and mr king's attention to the cyberattacks currently being carried out by turkish hackers on various websites of greek public services and companies. between 30 april and 2 may, turkish hackers first attacked the athens news agency, then a newspaper in crete, and then the handball federation, attacks accompanied by threats, which the turkish hackers mention: "greece forgets quickly". we threw your ancestors into the sea. we'll do it again! it is an unacceptable situation and i would like to see it condemned by you, mr king.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this virus, and it is not surprising that the european union is now taking action to combat it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. it must first create appropriate infrastructure and invest in high and modern technology. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: cyber defence, due to its military and civilian nature, requires cooperation between the military and the private sector. the european union must play a coordinating role in all this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, when we talk about the circular economy, we mean finding ways, using modern technology, innovation, not only to protect the environment but also to create new businesses and jobs. we have to change the way we deal with waste. instead of burying 60% of the waste in the european union, we should use it to save resources, to make money and to create millions of jobs. this requires a boost from the commission, support from governments, but also a stronger role for municipalities and regions, which can create green entrepreneurship and help us move into the new era. a week ago we celebrated world environment day. we must celebrate it 365 days a year by promoting the circular economy in practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is therefore a functional model that can create green jobs, particularly in the recycling and reuse of materials, and even more so in the waste management sector, where local government at all levels, both municipal and regional, can play an important role. i think that the small and mediumsized enterprises sector should be encouraged and should play an important role. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. but that is why they must also receive the corresponding funds.
mr president, one year after the european union signed the istanbul convention, we have not yet achieved the obvious: the provisions of the convention apply to all member states. that is because the commission is turning a blind eye. while it is careful to threaten and even impose fines on member states when they violate community law, as is the case in budgetary, trade and environmental matters, it does not do the same when it comes to human rights, which are the basis and the core of society. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask the commission: firstly, what measures does it intend to take to ensure that the convention to which it is a signatory comes into force? secondly, how will he counteract the fake news surrounding the convention?
mr president, we have discussed the istanbul convention on several occasions and of course it is important that it has been signed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. of course there is a social dimension to everything that happens, there are various causes, alcohol, gambling, but every day there are more incidents of domestic violence because of the economic crisis. the main thing is to implement the istanbul convention. but for it to be implemented, it must be ratified by the member states. we see that even bulgaria, which is currently holding the presidency of the european union, has not yet ratified. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the convention to include the protection of women and girls, and to extend it to include the protection of women and girls in the workplace.
in writing. the istanbul convention, which has not yet been ratified by all member states, takes a comprehensive and targeted approach to tackling gender-based violence. the eu's accession to the convention ensures the link between national and european law and strengthens the union's role in international fora. however, member states are not exempted from the obligation to incorporate the convention into their national law. despite the progress made, the road to eliminating gender discrimination is long. the evidence is clear: one third of all women in europe have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives, 20% have experienced online harassment, one in 20 women has been a victim of rape and more than one in 10 have experienced physical violence. the main factors that contribute to the occurrence of violence against women are fear of social exclusion and lack of education. effective response to all forms of gender-based violence requires coordinated prevention, information and awareness-raising actions, as well as encouraging victims to report any act of violence, away from fear, shame, social stereotypes and financial or emotional dependence on perpetrators.
mr president, mr prime minister, the leaders of the european union have stated on every occasion that one of its most important objectives is to bring the peoples together and to abandon all hostility which has led to conflicts in the past. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. unfortunately, however, even after all that has happened in europe in recent years, the leaders of germany and its satellites fail to understand that by taking advantage of the existence of a leftist, traitorous government in greece and trying to impose a solution to the name issue in skopje, they are not only failing to promote enlargement, but are creating a reasonable feeling among the overwhelming majority of greeks that europe is adopting clearly anti-greek positions to serve its interests. i am sure that the name agreement for skopje will collapse with the collapse of the syriza government, because it no longer represents the will of the majority of the greek people. skopje will not join the union! we must now ask ourselves, all greeks, whether we want to continue to belong to an organisation that is hostile to our country.
mr prime minister, it is well known that turkey is pushing hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants to the greek islands. the european union is also threatened that if it does not meet its absurd demands, it will flood europe with illegal immigrants. he recently denounced the agreement with greece to repatriate illegal immigrants who do not meet the conditions for asylum. do you agree that the european union should take a tougher stance towards turkey, immediately stop funding and also the discussions on its accession to the european union? secondly, since you rightly pointed out that the euro was simply a redistribution of wealth, do you agree that in this context and as a show of solidarity, the debt of greece, which the european union also destroyed economically to save the euro, should be reduced and alleviated? the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
before i go into some procedural matters, i should like to inform you that a few hours ago prime ministers alexis tsipras and zoran zaev announced in athens and skopje an agreement of importance not only for the two neighbouring countries but also for the whole of the european union. the president of the council of the european union, mr tusk, the commission and the un have already warmly welcomed the agreement, calling it 'historic' and 'a great diplomatic victory'. the european parliament, we, have consistently sought over the years for such an agreement to be mutually acceptable to both countries. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it is a major, positive development, which we in the european parliament have been working towards for years, and i think i can express the european parliament's welcome and satisfaction at this agreement.
madam president, i note your intervention and the applause that accompanied it. we have discussed this in the bureau of the european parliament. we will discuss this again, seeking a consensual solution.
mr president, i would like to make a statement regarding the resolution of the skopje issue. who doesn't want a solution to a problem that's been hanging around for 30 years? of course we all do. but what parliament should know is that this is a memorandum of cooperation, without any government decision from any country and essentially refers to 'macedonian nation' and 'macedonian language', something that needs to be clarified and cannot be accepted by anyone. we will not solve the problem of skopje to create trouble and division in my country, greece.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been in this chamber for four years and i have listened with great patience to all the members who have asked to speak. i would ask you to listen to me for just thirty seconds, because for you it may not be a serious matter, but for us greeks it is of paramount importance. i'll just say two words. mr president, you forgot to mention in your statement on such a serious matter concerning greek society, the greek people, that the agreement reached, as you said, is in breach of every rule of democracy, precisely because the greek parliament was not informed, nor any body which you should have informed seriously.
we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote. i would ask everyone to be strictly consistent with the one minute allocated under rule 183 of the rules of procedure.
mr president, in yesterday's debate on macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, mr dombrovskis referred to the so-called 'success story' of the ukrainian economy. what he failed to mention was that the international community, the international monetary fund and the european union had restructured ukraine's public debt. so we had a 20% haircut and a growth clause to pay off the rest of the debt. the international community has therefore accepted the 1953 model for the cancellation of the west german public debt. the question is: why are the european union and the international monetary fund refusing to restructure the public debt in greece? why do they refuse to cut the embarrassing debt that exists for greece? why, instead, do they impose a fourth memorandum with pension cuts, with mortgages on public assets? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
mr president, the european union's relations with nato are important, as is the future enlargement of these two organizations. the scandalous and shameful agreement between tsipras and zaev on skopje yesterday paves the way for skopje to join the european union and nato. it is an agreement that is selling out the name of our macedonia and our history, because macedonia is greek. there is no so-called 'north macedonia', so-called 'macedonian language' and so-called 'macedonian nationality'. the tsipras-zaev agreement harms the greek national interest, it is an unacceptable national concession to the unprecedented and redemptive demands of skopje. because the epitome of skopje's redemptionism is in the name "macedonia". we call for a referendum on skopje right here and now, so that the greek people who cannot tolerate humiliation can finally speak! the river of rallies does not turn back! no retreat to the skopje!
mr president, the 'barbarism' of desperate refugees and migrants seeking a haven is the implementation of the european union's policy and the ultimate proof of its hypocrisy. the european union's stability, its tendency to fall, its so-called surgical wars and its interventions, and those of its allies, are the reason for these cries. the refusal to allow access to the port is a consequence of the policy of concentration in the first host country, the 'dublin arrangement', the trapping of thousands of people in miserable conditions on the greek islands because of the unacceptable agreement between the european union and turkey. this policy feeds and reproduces reactionary government measures, the wretched competition of quotas by bourgeois governments, the nationalist racist poison. in conflict with the policy of the european union and governments, we demand human reception and accommodation facilities, freedom from the greek islands and other ports of entry, for refugees to travel to their final destination countries. the struggle of the peoples against imperialist wars and the capitalism that gives rise to them, together with exploitation and refugees, must be strengthened!
mr. president, i won't take up too much of your time. i want to protest and i will resign in protest at the treacherous attitude of the union and the tsipras government in granting the name of my country macedonia to skopje.
mr president, my country, greece, has shown solidarity and responsibility in managing immigration despite the economic problems. but we are facing a new humanitarian crisis: trafficking rings worth billions, denounced and for cooperation with ngos, continue their criminal activity in the mediterranean. the smooth functioning of the schengen area has not been restored, and the revision of the dublin regulation is coming up against the refusal of certain member states to cooperate. we know that countries have been closing their borders for a long time, one after the other. where will all these people go? fellow citizens, we are not here to accuse each other. but we have an election in less than a year. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. we have not only all equal rights, but above all equal obligations.
mr president, the situation with the increased migratory flows has reached the ceiling. greece and italy cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. so some people are rightly criticising italy for closing its ports, while france, germany, belgium, denmark and sweden have suspended the schengen agreement. at the same time, france and germany have only fulfilled 30% of their obligations in relation to the relocation of refugees from greece. the famous solidarity must finally be put into practice and the dublin iii system, which has turned the host countries, greece and italy, into soul-storage centres, must be abolished. the european council must take responsibility, allocate funds for refugees, and reactivate the system of relocation and responsibility-sharing. the inhabitants of the aegean islands, which are even now hosting thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants, are sending out a cry of anguish and protest.
mr president, commissioner, the problem of illegal immigration in the mediterranean is not going to be solved because the european union does not have the will to take the necessary action to solve it. it is also not showing solidarity with the countries of entry. what solidarity has it shown towards italy, spain, malta? the fact that it tolerates the neighbouring countries closing their borders and practically abolishing the schengen agreement? the fact that it distributes funds which, as in greece, are being misused by corrupt ngos? that he blames italy for deciding the obvious, namely not to allow more illegal immigrants into her country? things are even worse with greece. is the european union showing solidarity when it tolerates erdogan sending thousands of illegal immigrants to greece every day, more than any other country in europe? or when it tolerates the european union turning greece into a vast camp of unhappy illegal immigrants? does the european union have the courage to set up a hotspot in turkey or to stop funding and accession talks with turkey?
mr president, at last a european government, the italian government, is taking an exemplary stance on the aquarius issue. but too many questions remain unanswered. by what authority can the members of any ngo transport people, in effect acting as smugglers and slave traders? the passengers in question were neither shipwrecked nor in danger of death. with the support of some, they tried to exploit international law and move to europe. but no international law requires any state to break its own laws. but the more important question is: why have the members of these ngos not yet been arrested for human trafficking? why have these criminal organizations not been banned? the tolerance shown must be stopped immediately and the laws of the member states must be applied and the illegal ngo traffickers must be put in jail where they belong.
madam president, the directive we are discussing is of particular importance, since it affects at least 47 million people and 550 professions. the aim is, of course, to apply the principle of proportionality to the recognition of qualifications, at a particularly interesting stage for greece, where 500,000 young greek scientists are now abroad (400,000 young portuguese scientists are also abroad). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly created jobs are not created by the new technologies. it is obvious that there is a need for harmonization, and a margin of appreciation that the member states must have, especially in the health care system for the protection of health. i would like to draw your attention to the serious issue in greece with the council for the recognition of vocational qualifications, where recognition is needed in order to achieve equality in the professions. unfortunately, the system is not working. we ask for your intervention to make the qualifications recognized. thousands of my fellow citizens await the decisions of this illustrious organization.
mr president, the european union's political and economic relations with the acp countries must be based on the principles of mutual benefit. but on the one hand, in africa, european multinationals are grabbing resources, grabbing land, exploiting the cheap labour of millions of workers and competing with the chinese to create food monopolies. on the other hand, the cumulative import of agricultural products from africa into the european union is disrupting the european agricultural economy, disrupting any protection that exists for products with a designation of origin, such as feta, as well as for products with a geographical indication and origin. the failed model of european industrial exports and african agricultural imports is complemented by millions of illegal refugees and illegal immigrants entering the european union. concrete measures must be taken to protect human rights, to prohibit child labour and the exploitation of women, and at the same time to apply the principles of the cotonou agreement.
mr president, despite the european union's and governments' wishes for the roma, the state and european funds that have been spent in vain on their social integration, in a system that not only produces but also lives on inequalities and exploitation, vulnerable groups, such as the roma and especially women, are becoming victims of even greater discrimination, exclusion and ghettoization. they fall victim to racist and nazi gangs or, because of their poverty and marginalization, are exposed to criminal circles, are blamed as a whole, that is, unjustly, as incubators of crime, while at the same time it is concealed that the tops of the criminal circles are not in the roma camps. the essential social integration of the roma means permanent stable employment with rights, protection of the unemployed, public health services, simplification of the procedures for the legalization of their commercial activities, kindergartens, auxiliary teaching departments, eradication of illiteracy, humanization in their homes with roads, sewage, electricity, water, schools, medicine, public transport and, finally, of course, not discrimination and racism, but respect for their culture and way of life.
mr president, the roma are a minority of 10 to 12 million people who have lived for centuries on the margins of society, facing discrimination and stereotypes against them. let us not forget that millions of roma were executed, murdered in nazi concentration camps. in the meantime, years have passed, and yet poverty and social marginalization continue for the roma. of course, this cannot be an alibi for anti-social behaviour on their part. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest people in the community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that we must support the efforts being made for the roma in the camel breeding area of fethiye outside lamia. there, children go to school in containers, water and lighting problems are encountered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the roma population is not displaced.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the committee on petitions is the committee to which citizens are called and have the opportunity to raise their concerns. the question we are considering today is a very important one, because the ability of citizens to have linguistic skills, to be able to speak two additional languages in addition to their mother tongue, is very important and decisive, especially at a time when thousands of young people from the european south and the european periphery, precisely because of the austerity policies and poverty that exist in these regions, are forced to come to the countries of the hard core. it is therefore essential to enable young people, through erasmus and european funds, to have these language skills, but of course there must also be procedures for recognising the language skills that our young people acquire. we consider these initiatives as well as support for teachers of foreign languages to be important.
mr president, the market for ivory is a huge market. millions are at stake in this case. as mentioned, 55 elephants a day are killed, practically murdered, to support the illegal ivory trade. this massive poaching has significant consequences for the ecosystem, for development, while also leading to corruption and supporting organised crime. and while the united states, china, the united kingdom have taken tough measures, here in europe we are letting things run their course. first of all, very tough measures must be taken and the intra-eu trade in ivory stopped. secondly, we must check for transboundary species here in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, cultural diversity is protected by the treaties of the european union, and the right to cultural heritage is enshrined in the faro convention. and cultural heritage means protecting cultural goods. and here we come to the subject of stolen archaeological treasures. a serious matter which the report does not touch upon. and i am referring specifically to the archaeological treasures stolen by the nazi occupation troops in greece between 1941 and 1944. we're still waiting for those archaeological treasures to be returned! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. no one is disputing that funds must be invested. there is no doubt that digitisation must be exploited and that remote areas, islands, where access to culture and cultural goods is difficult, must be supported. but i come back to the question of the return of stolen archaeological treasures from the nazi occupation troops in greece. something has to be done about this, mr. navracsics. i have asked you this question on several occasions, and i asked you the same question on the day you came to the european parliament to be approved as a commissioner. we must not be deaf to this.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, corruption is a scourge on the global economy and society. this is why the un has concluded a convention on the fight against corruption, to which the european union has acceded since 2008. at the level of the european union we have very frequent complaints of corruption. it is estimated that the annual cost is 120 billion euros, and there are some who say that the cost of corruption is 900 billion euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we also have murders, executions of witnesses, journalists. it is obvious that the protection of witnesses in the public interest needs to be ensured. i have often pointed out a point which also concerns greece. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is literally 'making a party' and olaf should be involved in this matter. this is a very important issue!
the fight against corruption, madam president, is a basic prerequisite not only for the preservation of the prestige of the european union but also for the functioning of the eu itself. the enormous loss of many billions which could have been used for economic growth and job creation in the social and other sectors has already been mentioned. it is of course the basic responsibility of each state to tackle corruption itself, but the european union, because it has funds for both states and ngos, must monitor and be sensitive to tackling this serious problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. i would like to conclude by expressing my support for the struggle of the interpreters and i would like to thank the greek interpreters for their unreserved support and the effort they are making to support our work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
mr president, the human rights violation in bahrain is on the agenda. as early as 2011, it is known that the authorities are repressing too many activists. the right to a fair trial and the right of access to lawyers for the accused have been effectively abolished, and there is a complete suppression of human rights. the fact that arms are being sold to bahrain by the west and that there are increased commercial interests must not lead our parliament to turn a blind eye to the human rights violations in bahrain. in this context, there must be an immediate release of nabeel rajab, who denounced the saudi-led coalition which has been bombing yemen incessantly and has caused hundreds of casualties. nabeel rajab has been convicted and is in prison. we demand his immediate release!
mr president, the tragedy of the rohingya is continuing. at least seven times we have discussed the humanitarian crisis affecting these people. this is pure ethnic cleansing. it has economic bases, because they have basically displaced them in order to grab their land where there are rich productive resources. it appears as a religious conflict of buddhists against muslims, as we have in other cases of muslims against christians. the reasons behind this are economic and we must make that clear. but in addition, at the moment more than 200,000 people are in camps and are at risk, as we are in the era of the moons, and the facilities where they are staying are now under enormous pressure and phenomena such as oppression, prostitution, forced marriages are prevalent. the european union must put pressure on myanmar.
madam president, the proposal for a european industrial development programme for defence is not only unnecessary, it is also a challenge to the people of all european countries, who are seeing their expenditure on social security and social benefits, education, health and the fight against unemployment fall. the european union, in violation of all logic, solidarity and law, has impoverished the greek people with the measures of the memorandum and will maintain its austerity until 2060. now he's asking him to contribute to raising 500 million euros to fund the industrial development program. i have repeatedly pointed out that of all the countries of the european union, only greece and cyprus are officially threatened by turkey. no other country, neither russia nor china, has threatened war against any country in the european union. on the other hand, if that were to happen, there is nato, which is a defense organization. the european union is a defence alliance, and it is not a military alliance. against whom will he use this power he has acquired? as a former soldier and a greek... (the president interrupts)
madam president, the european programme for industrial development in the field of defence is strengthening the militarisation of the european union, is providing funds for the european military industrial complex, and all this at a time when wage and pension cuts, the dismantling of the social welfare system throughout europe and in greece in particular, are being imposed, and the greek people, who have been impoverished and are being impoverished by the troika, are being called upon to contribute to this. the troika which also dismantled the greek defence industry and from there there is a serious problem: who are those who are supporting and equipping turkey? we have seen the european defence industry equip turkey, a country which is aggressive towards greece and cyprus, a country which is threatening another european power. is it possible to allow this? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it time to ban the sale of military equipment to turkey?
madam president, commissioner bieńkowska, mrs grossetête's excellent report contributes to a new perspective in the field of defence after 2020 and also opens a growth window of opportunity. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. it is necessary to provide technological support, to encourage innovation and to standardize standards in the member states. it is necessary to emphasize the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises in the member states into the production chain of the european defence industry. in greece we have the greek defence systems, the greek aerospace industry, the greek motor vehicle industry and, without neglecting their necessary rehabilitation, they can contribute with know-how. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
mr president, it is of course important to have statistics on the agricultural sector, to know what is happening to the properties, to know whether there is grazing, to know how many farmers are actually engaged. i also think that very specific information is needed on products with a designation of origin, on products with a geographical origin, and this is all the more so since we have had international conventions in force for 15 years which have essentially liberalised imports of agricultural products from third countries, and we want to know what the current state of protection of products with a designation of origin is and whether farmers and livestock farmers can really continue to deal with these products or whether farms are being dismantled at the moment. what's the situation? i think statistics can provide some answers.
mr president, almost half the land area of the european union is used for agricultural activities and that is why it is particularly important to have both statistical data collection and, above all, research on agricultural holdings. the information gathered will make it possible to identify the needs and problems facing farmers and to introduce appropriate reforms to the common agricultural policy to deal with these problems. but to be truly successful, two factors must be taken into account. the first is the frequency with which these recordings are made. the fact that the decade is between two records does not guarantee that we will be particularly successful in this endeavour. a second element to be taken into account is the specificities faced by each region of the european union. the needs of the european south, and especially greece, are different from those of the north.
mr president, the dispossession of indigenous peoples' lands is on the agenda in asia, africa and latin america. there is a systematic expulsion of all indigenous peoples, mainly by multinationals, who are presented as alleged investors. we have chinese, american, but also european multinationals. they are literally taking the land from the indigenous people and all this is being done under the guise of the european union. if we really want to get in line and stop this situation, we have to put sanctions in place, put a blacklist of companies that are taking land from indigenous peoples and also a blacklist and ban on the import of products coming out of these companies that have taken land from indigenous peoples. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market.
mr president, the seizure of the lands of indigenous peoples is the tip of the iceberg of a more general phenomenon with global roots, namely the violation of the human rights of these peoples. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. for this reason, they are exploited by multinational corporations, which often have mercenary armies and exploit these people, not only by plundering their land, not only by exploiting the natural resources of these peoples, but also by using them as slaves, torturing them and forcing them to flee their homelands. it is an unacceptable situation, a crime against humanity, which the european union must address with concrete action. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the citizens of europe are respected.
madam president, forced marriages are on the increase in the united states and particularly in the european union, and this is because now, with the mass migration of populations here in the european union, there are populations with specific cultural backgrounds, but of course also with religious roots and references to islam itself, who are now imposing forced marriages - a situation which violates human rights, a situation which violates the rights of children and this procedure must be banned immediately. of course, the istanbul convention, the un convention on the protection of the rights of the child, is also being violated. we must therefore have legislation in the european union to prohibit forced marriages - forced marriages are called, but forced in practice, because they are forced - and of course investing money in the countries that follow this phenomenon, in order to have a support at a cultural level and, above all, to pass the views that must be valid.
madam president, the obligation imposed by some african and asian countries, especially islamic ones, on girls to marry at a young age, childhood i would say, is a real stigma for modern civilized society and humanity. it is not just a violation of human rights, it is not just an exercise of violence, it is something even worse, it is a gross and barbaric violation of human nature. girls whose bodies and bodies are not yet formed are forced to behave like adults. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the victims of the violence are not left behind. the european union must act effectively, it must review its relations with states which apply this anachronistic method and, above all, it must not allow this situation to develop in its own region.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. but, commissioner, we must look at our own house, we must look at how we ourselves protect the environment and we must enforce environmental legislation. i have asked a related question in the case of karistia, a region in euboea, greece. so there are 42 wind farms planned there with 700 megawatts of capacity and, according to a response i got in november 2017 from mr. vella, the european union legislation on the design and installation of wind farms is being violated and the commission said it would refer greece to the european court of justice. we expect action to be taken since then, because the multinationals continue to build wind farms illegally and the commission is even referring greece to the court of justice. we're waiting for that to happen.
madam president, commissioner cañete, the european union is the most important international player in the fight against climate change and, for this reason, climate diplomacy is the tool that must be dynamic and at the same time horizontal in all our political actions. the union's climate diplomacy needs to be professionalised, financially strengthened, developed more coherently and coordinated so that the climate change dimension is everywhere: in security, in migration, in trade agreements, in foreign investment, everywhere. one area where climate change will be tested is in the field of migration and that is where the union's climate diplomacy needs to be present, not only to secure the citizens of the union but also to secure the citizens who will be ready to migrate because of the problems they will face from climate change. the commissioner said that we were not going back to paris. climate diplomacy is essential to reward and even flag up negligence within the union, and it has to start with us.
madam president, the 73rd session of the un general assembly is very important. we have heard from all sides that we must deal with the issues of terrorism, environmental protection, immigration, security, but i see that we are forgetting here in the european union that there is a country, cyprus, which turkey has invaded since 1974 and illegally occupies 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus and has troops there. i believe that this issue should be the subject of every session of the un general assembly, because this is the way to send the message that the occupying forces should leave cyprus, that turkey should be forced to comply with international law, that it should stop threatening greece, that it should stop threatening cyprus. it must be a top priority at the 73rd session of the un general assembly.
the principle of subsidiarity is a fundamental principle of the european union, which means that all decisions must be taken closer to the citizens themselves. this means that a multi-level governance system is being established in the european union, so that cities can and must now play a serious role in environmental protection, social policy, the fight against poverty and the implementation of programmes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the same applies, of course, to the role of the regions. but we must be careful: the main pillar of the functioning of the european union is the member states and, therefore, the functioning of the regions and cities must be complementary and support the pillar, that is, the member states, and not dissolve them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to insist on intellectual property rights, because the rights of the author must be protected. if there is no copyright protection, there will be no creation, and that must be the basis. without that protection, i think we're going to have a lot of problems in the future. the second point raised by the report, and rightly so, is civil responsibility, because there must be civil responsibility. there must be ways of compensating the consumers themselves if the internal market itself is to function. and that means strict regulation, it means multiple rights for the same consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches (rule 163).
mr president, i bring to your attention the cry of agony and protest of the inhabitants of the aegean islands, who cannot stand another refugee or illegal immigrant. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the accession of the new member states to the european union. at the same time, at least 40,000 are in the rest of greece and, instead of having the resettlement process functioning, germany has only taken 1/3 of what it should have taken on with the resettlement process and, as if that were not enough, it does not change dublin iii and at the same time mrs merkel, with the signature of tsipras, decides to send, on the basis of a bilateral agreement, a number of refugees back to greece. it is an unacceptable procedure, it will not be accepted. we support the protest of the inhabitants of samos, in the village of mytilenios, who are protesting against this situation.
the examination on this point is closed.
i have read the programme of the austrian presidency's priorities. i read the word "security" countless times, i read the word "unemployment" few times, the word "democracy" few times, the words "human rights" few times, the words "sustainable development" few times, the word "racism" few times. you're a young politician and you have to choose which ideas you want to serve. you have two choices: the first is to work with the european parliament and the commission to get solutions from the council on refugees, on asylum policies, on the brexit negotiations, on the new multiannual financial framework, on the social agenda. and the second way is to prove yourself to be a childish orbán or salvini, who is simply seeking the applause of his government partner, who belongs to the extreme right. you have a choice between two paths. the european people's party is the party to which mr juncker belongs and, as you have seen, he spoke very differently from you, as did mr karas, who belongs to the same party as you, the austrian people's party. so make your choice, mr kurz: do you want to be a centre-right european leader or a salvini with a child's face?
the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. i would like to ask you, therefore, what the austrian presidency's position will be on turkey. turkey, which is violating the sovereign rights of greece, turkey, which holds 37% of the territory of cyprus, turkey, which, together with mr erdogan, is questioning the treaty of lausanne, is violating the airspace of greece, is violating the territorial waters of greece and we want your position on this. in particular, what will be the position of the austrian presidency and what will it do to secure the release of the two greek soldiers who have been illegally held for 125 days in turkey's maximum security prisons. we want a statement from you, mr. chancellor, mr. kurz, on this matter.
madam president, welcome mr chancellor, you have mentioned tackling illegal immigration as the first priority of your presidency and you have rightly pointed out that in order to succeed in this endeavour, the external borders must be protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. frontex has proved to be completely ineffective, and that is logical, because what motive would an austrian, for example, have to protect the greek border, even if he considers it to be the external border of europe? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. do you agree that the dublin treaty should be abolished so that the countries of entry do not become concentration camps for impoverished illegal immigrants? and finally, because turkey is still sending thousands of illegal immigrants to greece, what measures do you think should be taken against turkey? do you think that the european union should impose on turkey the same measures as it has imposed on russia?
madam president, mr chancellor, i would like to ask you the following questions: do you think solidarity is really a two-way street? and if so, what does the austrian presidency intend to do about the commission's proposal to withhold community funds from european union member states which refuse to take on their responsibility for the refugee crisis? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr. chairman, i also endorsed this material. i believe it is important to address the issue of the involvement of cities and municipalities in the decision-making process in the european union and also in individual european policies, especially cohesion policy. i think it is right that we do not just debate the fact that the individual regions should be involved in cohesion policy, but also the individual larger cities. i see this in the czech republic in relation to prague as our capital, where we are dealing with a whole range of investment projects and we would like to use some other options from european money to co-finance these projects, such as the question of completing another metro line. so i very much welcome this, i also welcome the idea that is described in the material, which is about participation in the composition of the committee of the regions, how to involve more the individual territorial governments, not just the regions, in this body. of course, this is certainly the right idea, and i hope it will not lead to a quarrel between the municipalities and the regions over how they are to be represented in this body.
mr president, the european military-industrial complex is celebrating. it is celebrating because the european union is being further militarized, it is celebrating because it will be supported by funds from the european budget, funds which were precisely for peaceful use, it is celebrating because it is also making the peoples contribute to the support by subsidies of europe's well-known war industries, those industries which sell arms to turkey. we must not forget that in afrin the turkish army invaded and had over 70 german-made leopards. the turkish military industry will thus be able to participate, in effect through the back door, in the subsidies and cooperation and money that will be provided by the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, farm statistics could be useful in that they provide evidence of the social and economic effects on the rural economy of the liberalization of trade which has been promoted by the european union policy. because we need statistics on what is happening to products with a designation of origin, which are really at risk because of ceta, because of the european union's agreement with southern africa, because of the cumulative imports of tunisian oil. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report.
mr president, renewable energy sources, and wind energy in particular, could really contribute to climate change, but that means complying with the requirements for the licensing and construction of wind farms. i have repeatedly referred to the environmental crime committed in south carinthia, at mount ocha, where 42 wind farms, with a capacity of 700 megawatts, are being planned and put into operation. the protection of the environment in a natura site has been seriously undermined. we have raised this issue on several occasions and there is a reply on 21 november from the european commission that it will refer the greek authorities to the european court of justice. the point is that nothing has been done so far and in my speech yesterday i asked the commissioner to tell us at last when the greek authorities will be brought to justice, as they are in breach of european union legislation on the issuing of permits for the construction of wind farms. will there be any action at all, or will we have the companies operating illegally and even taking illegal water here and now? finally, we must have a decision.
madam president, mr tusk, commissioner, today i have chosen not to wear a tie because it was worn by the greek prime minister, mr tsipras, to celebrate the agreement he made on the greek debt, which was not reduced by a single euro, and the country's supposed exit from the memoranda. and it has tied greece financially to the usurers on untenable terms for many more decades. he also handed over the name of macedonia to the skopjeans, against the will of the greek people. i can assure you that the greek people will not allow the prespes agreement to be implemented. at the last european council, all the leaders of the countries of the european union agreed that they disagree. in order to maintain the cohesion of her government in the face of the intense reactions caused by the criminal attitude to migration, merkel proposed the promotion of illegal immigrants in the countries of first entry. the greek government, with zero input from the people and little political time left, readily agreed to secure a good reputation from the outside, thinking that this would hold back its ever-decreasing percentages. of course, like the prespa agreement, this too will remain on paper to merkel's disappointment. the greek people will not let you destroy greece and turn it into a warehouse for illegal immigrants so that you can serve your petty political interests.
madam president, the council's reactionary decisions are best illustrated by the cynical statement of the head of frontex: the european union's member states, he says, are not obliged to rescue migrant refugees, that is, the victims of the imperialist interventions of the european union, the member states and their allies. in just three days, hundreds of people have been killed or missing. and those who do escape face the torture of waiting to see which of the governments will lead them back with the disgrace of dublin, with the intensity of deportations, with the repression at the border. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the european union to take action to help the people of the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the biggest fraud is the false dichotomy of "progressive" on the one hand and "xenophobic" on the other. the european union's reactionary policy is common, and despite their contradictions, all governments are united in this. the peoples, through their struggle, must give a decisive answer to the anti-people decisions of capital, government and imperialist associations.
madam president, over the years we have spoken of the need for a common european asylum policy, a common european migration policy and binding policies in all the member states. but we all know that voluntary action has proved to be a failure, and there are also certain countries which have refused to implement decisions we have taken. they are pursuing their own interests without a european mentality. the summit has not provided satisfactory answers, it has not led to viable solutions to this major issue. the postponement of the final reform of the dublin regulation to december creates uncertainty and certainly does not support the fundamental principle of solidarity. the migration problem continues to weigh on the first host countries, such as greece, because flows from turkey continue and even increased in 2018, as the commission has confirmed. ladies and gentlemen, the time is approaching for the european elections and we must all answer our fellow citizens how the proportional reception of refugees in all the member states will work, in accordance with the balanced and fair proposal of the european parliament. there is no other way for my country, greece, to be able to manage this very important issue effectively and with respect for human rights.
mr president, the european council meeting on refugees is a monument to failure. instead of actually deciding on changes to dublin iii, you ended up keeping dublin iii in operation, which means that greece is turning into a soul repository. instead of continuing the relocations, you're now turning them into a voluntary basis. so no one's going to relocate. instead of finding european solutions, we have been led to national solutions, on the initiative of mrs merkel and mr tsipras, who now agrees to return to greece thousands of refugees who have passed through our country. so instead of solving the problem, you've made it more complicated. greece cannot tolerate more refugees and illegal immigrants. the only solution is the application of article 72 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union by greece, to suspend schengen, to suspend dublin iii, to stop greece being a magnet for refugees and illegal immigrants.
mr president, mr tusk, i will speak in my native language, macedonian, that is to say greek, the language spoken by alexander the great 2,500 years ago, not the language that is being forcibly imposed in the framework of a forged prespa agreement, but also in the context of the last european council, where the heads of the member states chose to greet the treacherous tradition of the name macedonia by falsifying consciences and directly perverting greek history and culture, without taking into account the will of the greek people, you pseudo-democrats. they falsely called the suffering of the greeks a "treaty of friendship". they falsely called the ban on expression and democratic decision-making "cooperation". they falsely called 'good neighbourliness' the serving of american and european union interests. greek history is not a product to be traded, exploited, falsified or blackened for the political survival of leftist "normal people". when reason is displaced by interests, then we must remember the obvious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat fraud and corruption.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of ms merja kyllönen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2006/22/ec as regards the minimum requirements for the imposition of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the imposition of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the imposition of specific rules on directive 96/71/ec and directive 2014/67/eu on the allocation of specific directives in the field of road transport (com2017/0278 - c8-0170/2017 - 2017/0121 (cod)) (a8-0206/2018), the report of mr wim van de camp, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 as regards the minimum requirements for the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements for the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements of specific rules on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements on the allocation of specific rules on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements on the minimum requirements on the minimum minimum minimum requirements on the minimum minimum minimum minimum requirements on the minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum requirements on the minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. domination and concentration of capital based on the brutal exploitation of millions of hired drivers who literally work at the risk of their lives in unacceptable conditions of intensification, under threat of dismissal, with endless hours at the wheel, long absences from their family, with meager wages and without collective agreements, taking civil and criminal responsibility for accidents where they are essentially driven under pressure from employers for timely delivery or overloads. the european parliament's wishes do not deal with the situation, but open windows with exceptions to safety rules, with stamped checks, with flexibility in working and resting hours, with loss of workers' rights, with posting in favour of the employer. for all drivers, seven-hour work equivalent, five-day work, consideration of waiting time and other work as work, regular satisfactory rest periods at home, collective agreements with satisfactory wages, with public transport only.
madam president, the democratic republic of the congo has been dealt with many times in this chamber. we are all aware of the undemocratic actions of president kabila, who refuses to end his term and continually renews it. we are in fact in a civil war, because the opposition does not tolerate the torture of kabila and, of course, does not tolerate the anti-democratic procedures, does not tolerate the imprisonment of activists. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has taken important steps to prevent the spread of the ebola virus. fortunately, there has been the possibility of preventing and limiting the spread of the virus. i think that the world health organization played a part in this and, of course, the money that was given, the possibility that was given for immediate vaccinations. so there is a lot of effort being made to contain ebola, but at some point, kabila has to go.
mr president, the desire and the attempt of illegal immigrants to enter illegally, especially in the countries of entry, has made these unfortunate people the object of exploitation by many different actors, first of all by the illegal traffickers, and secondly by the ngos. you know that in all countries, and especially in greece, ngo employees have profited and continue to profit at the expense of illegal immigrants, violating the human rights for which they are supposed to fight. i would like to mention an example in greece where the police dismantled a brothel set up by ngo members and exploited young immigrant women and, unfortunately, children. finally, we have the so-called solidarity workers who, in the name of a misguided humanism, knowingly help illegal immigrants to enter the country illegally or to remain in the country illegally. we must not confuse the two situations: it is one thing to offer food to a hungry illegal immigrant and another to exploit him and to go illegally. the state must banish these very illegals... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the community's small and mediumsized enterprises. we've entered a new age. the number of employees must also be changed and the turnover must be increased. but we must not only look at the update, but also at the trap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the mid-sized businesses that obviously have much greater and easier access to the money and capital markets as they grow their businesses. we must take account of the legal specificities, because the latest report by the european central bank on access to finance for euro area businesses says that in my country, greece, small businesses have been disproportionately affected. twenty-one percent said that the most important problem they face is finding resources. we need a new criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
welcome, mr. prime minister of poland. you mentioned earlier that the sovereignty of the european union must not be in conflict with the sovereignty of the nations. does the proposal to abolish the principle of unanimity, which would, among other things, transform the european union into a two- or even a three-speed union, accord with your position? your country and some other countries have closed their borders to protect themselves from the waves of illegal immigrants. this position suggests your intention to turn the countries of entry, and especially italy and even more so greece, into vast camps of unhappy people. and finally, because turkey continues to drag waves of illegal immigrants into greece and threatens the european union that it will open the gates to the invasion of millions of illegal immigrants if the countries of the european union do not comply with its absurd demands. what is your position on the measures to be taken by the european union against turkey? do you agree that he should receive the sanctions he has imposed on russia?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr. president, i'm sorry to say this, but i have to say this: we're really into the pre-election period for the election. the other day in athens, mr moscovici did not behave like a european union official, but more like the socialist party candidate for the european commission, claiming the seat of mr juncker. i do not know why he has adopted the government's narrative of a quick and clean exit from the memoranda in an unacceptable way, as he told us today. on the contrary, mr tsipras has committed to new burdensome measures for the coming years: pension cuts from 2019, tax-free reductions from 2020, an increase in insurance contributions to professionals and farmers, a surplus of 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060 only opec countries, because of oil, can achieve such results a collateral of state property for the next 25 billion years, and a superfund that will be responsible until 2115, for another 99 years. mr president, in august the third unnecessary memorandum was concluded, which cost the greek people a great deal because of the wrong policy of the left-wing government of mr tsipras. now - and i disagree with mr moscovici - greece has to face a fourth veiled memorandum. tell me, isn't it a memorandum when it includes measures of 5.1 billion euros for the next few years and raises the bill to 14.5 billion euros, almost 10% of greece's gross national product? so there is no room for celebration, much less triumphalism. what is needed is reform and investment in greece. only then will greece emerge from its impasse and the great, prolonged crisis that it had throughout the 1910s.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, what mr centeno and mr moscovici have told us today on behalf of the eurogroup and the commission is proof that my country, greece, is taking a major positive step. we are entering a new, more positive period for my country. we who have contributed to this positive step and fought for it are satisfied but not celebrating. we are not celebrating because a large part of the greek people has suffered greatly and is still suffering from the painful consequences of the bankruptcy and the savage memorandum measures. we're not celebrating because we have a lot to do. we are taking the country out of the memoranda, but we must also take it out of the crisis once and for all and put it safely in the coming years and decades on a highway of equitable and sustainable development. and that means faster reduction of unemployment, increased investment, modernization of administration, finally finishing the land registry in greece, which previous governments left unfinished for 200 years, to fight corruption and tax evasion more effectively. it means greater freedom to exit the memoranda, but also greater responsibility to maintain a well-managed public finances. and i am sorry to hear the "cassandras of athens", the ones who are to blame for leaving my country with a deficit of 15.1% in 2009 and now we have, in 2018, a surplus of 0.8% to destroy and distribute. the truth is that the political forces responsible for the default and the memoranda in greece feel sadness and anger and they are fighting with centeno and moscovici because it is this government, the tsipras government, that is taking greece out of the memoranda and the default and putting it on a path of stable and sustainable development.
mr president, anyone who talks about ending the memorandum in greece, like syriza-anel, is provoking the people with unbelievable lies. the eurogroup agreed on a post-memorandum memorandum on the future of the european union. this is fair development in the face of the eu's normality, which promises industrialists and creditors that all the memoranda will remain in force and new anti-people measures will be added to without end, with crumbling wages, collective agreements and rubber labour relations, sacrifice to corporate profits, bloody surpluses for 40 years for debt and capital reinforcement, the check on social benefits and the intensification of auctions. it's a lousy government hoax. not if, but when the 24th legislative pension cut and tax-free reduction will be implemented. the supervision of not only institutions, but also of capital, is not abolished. he's being sedated. the people must not be trapped in false dividing lines between the supposed progress of syriza and the maintenance of new democracy or the other. the system has found and will find again the next useful to continue the same barbarity, where everyone agrees. the people must find their own way to abolish the memoranda and recover losses, by organizing and fighting, in solidarity with the communist party of greece.
mr president, mr centeno, despite your attempts to create a magical image, the greek people know from their own hard experience that the memoranda have failed. with the three memorandum loan packages, greece received 240 billion euros. where did the money go, mr. centeno? where did the 240 billion euros go, mr moscovici? because if they had hit the greek economy, the country would have taken off. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, with the memoranda, greece has become a vast social graveyard, with armies of poor and unemployed, with impoverished pensioners, with our young people migrating. the eurogroup agreement of 21 june imposes permanent austerity and the divestment of public assets by the equity fund, which will operate for 99 years. immaterial primary surpluses are imposed, 3.5% by 2022, 2.2% by 2060. pension cuts in 2019, tax-free cuts in 2020. and all this while the creditors, instead of paying off the entire 86 billion loan, have saved 24 billion euros, which could have been used, mr centeno, to recapitalise the social security system, to solve the problem of bad loans, to create jobs. i would like to say to mr centeno and mr moscovici that the greek people will not tolerate the memorandum you have passed on to them and will soon send you the message. know that.
mr president, the statements made by european officials after the last eurogroup meeting present an exaggerated picture of the greek economy, in order to create the appearance of success of the memorandum recipes of the last eight years. the reality, however, is that while the greek state has stopped running deficits, gross domestic product has remained stagnant over the last five years, after a frightening decline of almost 25% in the previous five years, from 2008 to 2013. the absence of growth means that the ratio of public debt to gdp cannot be improved, and the problem of over-indebtedness is not solved, but merely postponed to the future, with successive extensions. if the creditors want greece to get on its feet, they must reduce their long-term primary surplus requirements to a level no higher than 1% of gdp per year, so as to stop the growth-killing overtaxation.
mr president, mr centeno, commissioner moscovici, you have shown your complete satisfaction with the completion of the third economic adjustment programme for greece. do you think the country will return to normalcy and prosperity, while intolerable economic measures have not yet been implemented and include an additional 18% cut in pensions already reduced by 45%-50% from 1/1/2019, reducing the tax-free to about 5,000 thousand by 2020, increasing the enfia and increasing taxes and insurance contributions? while other countries are obliged to accept two annual audits by the commission and the esm, four will be provided for greece under enhanced surveillance, and this will continue until 75% of the debt of 230 billion is repaid. primary surpluses 3.5% by 2022 and 2.2% by 2060. but in what country in the world has such a surplus been achieved? mr centeno, you and the other representatives of the institutions, with the cooperation of a government in greece which is already effectively in default, have succeeded in binding my joy with a series of new measures which are doomed to fail, just as the previous ones you imposed. the greek people will not allow you to do this.
mr president, germany must repay the occupation loan and compensate for the damage it caused and greece will return to normal. because your normalcy is a brutal primary surplus for another twenty years, that is, permanent impoverishment and misery of the people. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. the creditors decide everything. the debt settlement, an accounting alchemy of embellishment, i.e. a mockery in view of italy's explosive risk. reforms, that is, a permanent selling off of public wealth. the commission has also taken the view that the concession price for the national airport is humiliating. this is the normalcy in which you take pride in having led greece. in this regularity he boasts that greece is led, after the exit from the memoranda, by its 'left' prime minister. this is the normalcy you propose to the peoples of europe. the fact that you can impose it today does not negate the tragic effects it produces. it is so vulgarly disgusting that this normality of yours is definitive, that i cannot as a citizen and as a politician but stand against it, along with all those who resist it.
mr president, i would like to take advantage of the presence of mr centeno to raise questions of concern to the greek public. firstly, i would like to know why the french proposal linking the rate of growth of the greek economy to the level of greek government debt-to-income ratio was abandoned. it was good because it took the pressure off the economy and the citizens. secondly, i welcome the return of the central banks' profits from the purchase and sale of greek bonds, amounting to eur 4 to 5 billion, but the amount is half of what was envisaged in the second memorandum programme and the difference of eur 4 to 5 billion is extremely valuable for the greek economy. third, while the greek government implemented and committed to implement more measures than originally planned, greece ended up with eur 24 billion less than the third loan programme. the difference is so big, it makes our lives difficult. for example, the bank of greece has estimated that eur 14 billion could settle 70% of the bad loans, thus benefiting the borrowers and the economy. fourthly, the international monetary fund is not involved in financing the greek debt, sending its message to the markets. the eurogroup, however, maintains all the new measures to reduce pensions - that's why we are fighting politically - the abolition of subsidies, the increase in taxation - and this is a huge problem - that were linked to the presence of the international monetary fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a timely manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. this creates a crisis of credibility, which is related to the european institutions, to the government and - i'm not hiding it - to the political system in which it plays a leading role and to which i belong, because we talk as if something extremely good is happening - there is progress, i recognize it - but we seem to disregard the problems of the average citizen.
mr president, in the name of debt, the three memoranda have imposed on the greek people the most severe austerity ever imposed in peacetime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the results for greece: the debt rose, incomes fell, unemployment soared, medieval conditions in the labour market. the third memorandum was imposed with the neoliberal transformation of the syriza government, while the greek people with the referendum of 2015 had rejected the barbarity of your policies. the official end does not mean the end of austerity and the committee. the eurogroup agreement formalizes the submission of every greek government to excessive surpluses, cuts in social spending, privatizations, the crushing of labor rights for the next 45 to 50 years at least. on these economic and social ruins you celebrate and congratulate yourselves and each other, mr centeno and mr moscovici, but the greek people will not stop fighting for democracy, dignity and the future of their children, fighting to escape from the prison of the neoliberal and authoritarian eurozone and european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in greece, including the introduction of a new system of national accounts. in the last three years greece has seen the train of growth passing in front of it, but has not boarded it. greece is stuck. to recover greece needs confidence, it needs foreign investment, it needs to improve the performance of the public sector, it needs to lift restrictions on capital movement. we still have capital control, mr moscovici - mr weber reminded you - while we celebrate. we must change the mix of tax policy which is destroying small and mediumsized businesses and self-employed people, and increase incomes. i repeat, greece needs confidence and stability and this government, instead of generating the necessary confidence, is creating instability. the two partners are clashing in public, the greeks have been paying the bill for years, and eight out of ten feel that the country is not moving in the right direction. the post-programme framework of extended surveillance decided for greece is clearly stricter than that of portugal and ireland, and mr tang of the socialists reminded us that the commitments on primary surpluses are unprecedented in the world. it is therefore essential to avoid celebratory tones. we don't need to sugarcoat reality. greece needs another strong government, a government committed to its own reform programme which it will implement, a government that will bring stability now that greece will only be confronted with markets and only with its own performance.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the greek people have done their part, they have suffered huge wage cuts, huge pension cuts, zero public investment, the red line is health, they have suffered a 25% reduction in gnp, which has not happened except during war, and the european partners have given 240 billion and know-how for a lot of reforms and now, at the end of the memorandum, which we are fortunately reaching, we see that these reforms, even if they were considered positive and implemented, many of them have only been legislated and certainly not implemented. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because at the moment, we see large investments being cancelled, we see small and medium-sized enterprises not being able to access credit, we see too many problems, we see the country falling in the competitiveness index, which we should have gained from the memoranda. so the slogan 'wrong memoranda, wrong governments, wrong europe' has some support somewhere. but to be positive; it's the end of memos and the end of illusions. now, for the greek political forces there are no fig leaves, there are no europeans who determine policies. it is our fault if we do not develop, it is our fault if we do not hit the incredible bureaucracy and the customer base. and for that, the lifting of illusions, thank you.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we thank you for your efforts to rationalize this government in 2015, which cost, according to commissioner moscovici's reply, 20 billion before capital controls and much more afterwards. but illusions and wishful thinking clash with reality. where have we seen pro-growth reforms? the taxation, the justice, the strengthening of the independent authorities? the real progressive leftists would demand the abolition of measures of social injustice and subjugation and would not celebrate a communication fraud and the domination of schäuble logic that was finally imposed. the extension of the maturity of the bonds between us facilitates this willing government and merkel. the repayment without a growth clause is a real murder of the economy, and the 8 billion in accounting surpluses, which are manufactured, come from the suspension of internal payments, austerity and tax evasion, and, if you will allow us, some colleagues, we do not accept the suggestions to be silent and not to criticise measures which should have been taken and real pro-investment reforms. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. but, again, thank you for your support.
madam president, mr president of the eurogroup, you said that the greek people and the other citizens of europe must turn the page, that august 2018 is a milestone. you said that the right foundations were in place, but that cost us a lot because we had to make important changes along the way. the syriza government took over a client state where the cabal ruled. the way public administration operated was often reminiscent of the middle ages. our country, greece, and the greek people have suffered enough: unprecedented unemployment, immigration of young people, suicides, humanitarian crisis, painful pressures from the creditors. i am therefore asking you and the commissioner not to insist on further pension cuts. the greek pensioners who are also helping their unemployed children cannot afford any more cuts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, in 2009 the economy of greece was on par with the economies of all the eurozone countries and even better than many of them. but then the european union in cooperation with the international monetary fund, with germany in the lead, as well as with the international lenders, with the tolerance of all greek governments from that time until today, decided to destroy the economy of greece for two reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rest is familiar. with false evidence they created an illegal, abusive and unsustainable debt, subjected the greek people to eight years of misery and perpetrated against them a modern form of genocide. there is no doubt that this situation will continue. i 'll end by saying that in this modern greek tragedy the solution will not be given by the machine god . the real god will give it through the greek people, who will very soon apply and impose political and legal justice on the politicians who betrayed him.
in writing. optimistic estimates of the greek economy refer to the well-known saying "the numbers are growing but the people are suffering". the greek people have been tested hard and made great sacrifices in the years of crisis, but they have not had the desired effect. greece is again obliged to sustain austerity, as it is called upon to run high surpluses continuously until 2060, which is an open secret that no country in the economic timeline has succeeded. the attempt to gloss over the situation does not change the picture of the real economy, with one in two taxpayers owing tax arrears and one in three at risk of or already having been seized. how can the expression of confidence in the greek economy be reconciled with the obligation to strengthen post-memorandum supervision, frequent checks, a series of new hard measures and a financial 'pillow' of 24 billion euros? greece needs the support of the eu and its partners, but also a government that believes in reforms and, above all, in an attractive tax environment for investment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take part in them.
in writing. our fellow citizens cannot believe that the crisis is over, because no one is experiencing a significant improvement in their pocket, in their family budget, in their daily life. the greek economy will recover when society really breathes. when the real economy, small and mediumsized enterprises and family businesses, are given a decisive boost, and when there are substantial investments to combat unemployment and create jobs with quality conditions and fair wages for workers. today, with youth unemployment at its highest, with the country bidding farewell to citizens of all ages and skills who are leaving for the outside world, no one has the right to celebrate.
madam president, the dangerous decisions of the last summit are a monument to reactionary thinking, reinforcing the existing network of repressive mechanisms of the european union, which this report also extends, both at the borders and in the interior of each member state. we have had the freedom - the so-called schengen - of the envelope orgy with all the modern technological methods, fingerprints, biometric data and so on and now with the etias. the visa, which was abolished for travellers from third countries, is now back in the form of a permit, which the border guard can still refuse. until proven otherwise, people are essentially being wrapped in a piece of paper in the name of fighting terrorism, so-called illegal immigration, the deliberately vague and arbitrary notion of radicalization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the current situation.
the european system of information and travel authorization, mr president, i think is coming to make up for the enormous mistakes and shortcomings that have been made, mr avramopoulos, by your removing a number of countries from the visa requirement. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region, and to help the countries of the middle east. so i don't think you're really going to do anything special. secondly, most of the people who commit terrorist acts in europe are citizens of the european union, and we have seen this. third, the data you collect will essentially create a huge dossier. fourthly, i do not think it covers this system, since you leave out those who have been transporting tourist buses for three years and have no obligation to cooperate. besides, in samoa, if anyone's going to go, they have to get this permit. but as dozens of boats with illegal immigrants arrive, they will disembark and remain in the area making an asylum application. so you can see the huge contradiction. the legal people who want to come to the european union will ask for permission and the illegal people will continue to come by boat to the aegean islands. so look at the huge contradictions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. first of all we must support cohesion and that requires funds. the countries which have suffered from austerity have suffered from the troika programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and of course there must be funds to support, create new jobs for our young people. the issue of the youth guarantee and hence of course erasmus+, as has been mentioned by several. so i think that the processes to support sustainable development require much more funding and, in practice, what we see is that payment appropriations were 0.92% in 2018, now they are 0.9%. there's a slight decrease, although it's typically seen as a 3.1% increase. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs gräßle and mr ashworth, for the work they have done, because it has really taken a lot of effort to be able to have budgetary rules that apply to the general budget and that take into account first of all the idea of flexibility, that understand that there has to be a relative adjustment when we have emergency situations and that at the same time insist that good administration requires transparency, accountability and, of course, accessibility. so these combinations i would say are achieved to a very large extent. we are aiming to reduce red tape, increase efficiency, simplify implementation, but also to tackle fraud, to stop the party that is being played with some european funds and, of course, to deal decisively with companies based in tax havens.
madam president, the debate has raised a serious concern because it is a given that the protection of personal data must be at the level defined by the charter of fundamental rights. at the same time, we have the court of justice's judgment on the safe harbour, which sets out the terms and conditions for the protection of personal data, and at european union level we have the well-known gdpr regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the question is, and this debate shows, that there is not enough protection to be afforded by the privacy shield in the eu-us agreement. and we have to push in that direction, we have to demand it, and i think there is a very specific time frame for the united states to comply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but today, a clear warning to the united states.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the committee on petitions, our committee, receives hundreds of petitions and i think it is very important that, both at this and at previous meetings, we have brought up issues of concern to the citizens. a classic case is the adverse effects of the us foreign account tax compliance act, fatca, which essentially means an extraterritorial jurisdiction of the united states to tax those whom they consider to be their own citizens. and in that sense, there is a competence to discuss this issue, since we consider that a specific european union directive is being violated and, possibly, the fundamental rights of citizens of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this sense, a bilateral agreement has been concluded between each state and the united states in the case of fatca. i think there should be a direction towards member states, to take action to solve these issues. the french government has taken important steps in this field, and has contacted the united states to deal with this problem.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every five years after the european elections we are faced with the same result: less and less participation by citizens in the european elections. then there are the analyses of the democratic deficit in europe. we all know that our union disappoints citizens in many ways, but disabled people are not just disappointed, we are effectively excluded from the european elections and we are at least 10% of the electorate. what kind of democracy is it that denies the blind, the deaf, the crippled the right to be informed in a proper and understandable way, the right to vote or to stand as a candidate? it's a crippled democracy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i must admit that what i have heard so far is not very encouraging. the participation of disabled people in elections must become a criterion of the quality of our democracy and should begin to be measured from the forthcoming european elections. we have all the technological means. yes, it will. indeed, democracy is an expensive system, but it is the best we have.
madam president, participation in the democratic life of the union must be guaranteed to all citizens, particularly in the context of the european elections. and this is even more true for people with disabilities. the un convention, in its articles 12 and 29, states that disabled people must have the same rights as other citizens. the participation process means, of course, among other things, that people with disabilities should be able to participate in the process of the exchange of views in the european elections. secondly, they must have access to the political programmes of the parties. thirdly, there must be a possibility of having access to it in a special way, such as the braille system. in addition, it must be ensured that disabled people have access to the polling stations themselves so that they can vote. this also requires that they have unhindered access to public transport. we know of a number of countries, from reports that have come to our committee, where there are no means of transport, no transport of people, especially by rail. all of these are important issues to consider. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2012 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2013.
mr. chairman, that debate clearly described the catastrophic situation in somalia. we all agree on that. it's not in our power to solve the matter at this time. what we can do is provide humanitarian aid alongside our diplomatic efforts. i would like to ask the high representative: what is the current state of our humanitarian aid? the resolution talks about specific numbers. i want to ask you if the aid is really being realistically fulfilled. whether it is not just general proclamations and whether the aid is effectively used and really reaches those who need it. unfortunately, it is not often that money sent to a third country ends up in the pockets of oligarchic government structures, or that humanitarian aid is not delivered to those most in need. so i'm asking you to respond to this question.
mr president, somalia is paying the price for the bitter conflict between saudi arabia and qatar. there are war conditions in the somali region, with child recruitment, with sexual violence, with the terrorist operation of al shabab. in october 2017, we had 512 dead in its attack, while in total there are 2,078 civilian deaths and 2,500 wounded. it is obvious that a peace process must prevail and that the radical islamism developing in the region must be struck down. the somali government, of course, does not have the best record, if you will, in respecting human rights. it has been accused by the ilo of violating the principle of cooperation, although it is receiving 486 million euros from the european development fund. it is clear that poverty drives and fuels terrorism. support efforts to eradicate radical islamism in somalia.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, a moment ago the whole house expressed its condolences and observed a minute's silence for the victims of the natural disasters and, of course, for the 98 dead we had in the fires in the eye of attica. last week, at the meeting of the political group secretaries-general on wednesday and at the meeting of the presidents on thursday, the ecr group asked for the fifth item to be added on monday, i.e. today, 'commission statement on the fires in the attica eye'. unfortunately, this was not accepted by the bureau and that is why we are bringing this matter back. i would point out that on 25 october 2017 we had a specific discussion on the deadly fires in portugal and spain. we therefore put forward this request, we want a special debate on the fires in attica and we say to the colleagues or political groups who have indicated as a reason for rejecting our request that they want a general debate in october, that they should take seriously our desire for a special debate on the fires in attica. we want to have the debate today as the fifth item because it is extremely topical and, moreover, because tomorrow the prime minister of greece, mr tsipras, will be here to take part in another debate and because it will be very important for him to follow and take account of the conclusions of our debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy that greece suffered on 23 july is the greatest in its history, both at national and european level. in one european capital, in broad daylight, nearly a hundred people were killed in the most horrific way: they were burned. i am sure that we have all seen these images and descriptions and out of respect for the memory of the victims, i will not repeat them. the circumstances and causes of this tragedy, however, besides raising many questions, also create feelings of indignation and despair. for these reasons, and as a minimum sign of healthy reflective solidarity and expression of sympathy on the part of the european parliament for all those who are experiencing the tragedy of their lost people and their destroyed property, i asked for a debate and a resolution to be included on the agenda of the plenary session the day after the fires. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, your positive response will be the best memorial to the victims.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking about a hundred charred people, and i would personally like to turn the conversation around this issue and how we can help these people who have lost loved ones, whose property has been destroyed and whose future is uncertain. we must see how the european union can help the whole situation through its programmes - the rescue programmes. i would have no objection, neither i personally nor my group.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we have made a specific request for a debate on the fires in the eye of attica. the difference with the fires in other countries mentioned by my green colleague is that there were no deaths. so let's not confuse things. i would remind mrs keller that on 25 october 2017 she and i participated in a special discussion on the fires in portugal and spain and there was no discussion of other events. i therefore call on all colleagues and political groups to express themselves in a direct and categorical manner on the request we are making together with the gue group for a question entitled 'commission statement and debate on the fires in the attica eye'. if that is accepted, let us proceed to a vote on the resolution. if it is not accepted, let the groups who for some reason do not want a debate today, but want it to take place after a few days, take responsibility.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the european solidarity corps, which is so much in demand by mr juncker and the commission, is, in my view, the continuation of the neoliberal european union's all-out attack on all social sectors and its false cover-up of real needs. the concepts of solidarity and volunteering are used only euphemistically and we have seen what this means in the context of the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european social fund. the european solidarity corps is, in essence, another ideological and political mechanism under the control of the commission, a limited project that can neither effectively deal with the disastrous consequences of neoliberal policies nor respond to the enormous social and economic problems and social needs. the economic crisis, unemployment, precarious work and youth migration are not being tackled by individual action and private initiative. the young people of europe do not need to be encouraged to engage in so-called voluntary and solidarity activities, but to be encouraged to spend real money on public education and on creating quality jobs with full employment rights, so that they can start their lives with dignity and build a future of genuine solidarity for the peoples of europe.
mr president, in order to justify its failure on two very serious issues, youth work and the provision of social services to citizens, the leadership of the european union is trying to create confusion and mislead young people and is referring to the need for voluntary work to promote supposed solidarity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the establishment of a european youth forum, the european youth forum, the european youth forum, the european youth forum, and the european youth forum. then he'll find a way to express his love to the other groups in society. i think that the debate we are having here is therefore devoid of substance and that when young people realise this, they will realise once again that their chastity has been exploited.
mr president, once again concepts are being degraded and distorted. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is not solidarity to offer young people as help to ngos, with volunteering as a substitute for an otherwise paid position, providing excuses for some cunning people to enrich themselves and grabbing national and community funds. it is not solidarity to allow so-called volunteers from third countries to settle in europe under the pretext of voluntary work, dictating the facilitation of the issuing of residence permits at the expense of safety, legality and equality of procedures. it is not solidarity to support third countries and forget your own citizens who suffer from your economic policies. i am against every ideological and fearful syndicate and those who are ashamed to admit that we must advance the interests of our own citizens. finally, show solidarity with the european family and not with any illegal invader!
mr president, the structural reform support programme has a history and has been in existence in greece since 2015, as my country is supported in the design and implementation of structural reforms. but it must be stressed that, as this programme is voluntary, we can see three conditions which will make the programme more friendly and effective. the first is that the proposed reforms should be development-oriented, i.e. focusing on removing obstacles such as bureaucracy and the unfavourable institutional framework, but also facilitating innovative financial instruments. the second is to make the word 'reforms' more creative and less imposing. for example, in education, in public health, we need changes that will give opportunities and good services to citizens so that citizens will embrace the reforms. the third is to remember that one suit doesn't fit everyone. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. in this way the reforms will be effective and the money of european taxpayers leaving cohesion will be put to good use.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, today we are closing here an effort that started in october 2015 by the committee on regional development, by giving a major exception to my country, greece, with regulation (eu) 2015/1839. it is an important initiative, as the european union has shown its solidarity with greece at a very crucial moment. it's important because greece lost 26% of its gdp during the crisis and its unemployment rate skyrocketed. it is important because, in may 2018, greece still has unemployment at 19.5% according to eurostat and youth unemployment for 2017 was 43.7%. with the exception of greece, a total of eur 20,4 billion was received from cohesion policy funding for the period 2007-2013. it was, as you said, commissioner, a very important injection of liquidity at a time when political uncertainty was threatening to blow up any attempt to absorb community funds. i want to say here, colleagues, a big thank you to all of you. the european union acted swiftly and effectively. cohesion policy has proved to be the cornerstone of european solidarity. in the new era in which we must combine financial instruments, we should not deprive cohesion resources but give impetus to projects with added value. the partners, the friends, seem to be in trouble and solidarity has been put into practice in greece. you stood in greece when we were on the edge of the cliff. it is up to all europeans to learn from the real tragedy that my country has experienced and to say together that we will never do it again.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the memoranda have led my country, greece, to a total economic disaster, to a social graveyard with a huge number of unemployed, with poverty, with a fall in gdp to 26%. at the same time, the memoranda imposed a reduction in the public investment programme, i.e. a reduction in the amounts to be invested: in fact, greece could not finance the european projects that needed cofinancing because the troika said at the time that the deficit would increase. we have been pointing out this huge problem here since 2014 and fortunately there were these arrangements, fortunately there was this exception that allowed these funds of two billion euros to flow in. the conclusion, mrs crețu, must be that when a country is facing a problem, such as greece, exceptions are needed. they need special arrangements. greece needs a special relationship with the european union, with many exceptions in the application of the treaty, in order to allow the country to breathe, to move forward, because a ruined greek economy cannot compete with the other economies of the european union. that is why we, as hellends-the other way, propose a special relationship for greece within the european union and within the eurozone.
mr president, i will counter what my colleague said earlier. i must acknowledge the author of this report for admitting that the steady negative growth rates of recent years have not been countered by the three memoranda imposed on greece by the creditors. usually, from previous governments, from the current government and from the institutions, we hear just the opposite. on the other hand, statistics are the easiest way to lie. eurostat tells us that unemployment in greece has fallen to about 20%. what it does not tell us is that the new jobs are usually parttime and with much lower wages than those that existed before the crisis. it is, of course, unreasonable to expect growth to accelerate when wages have fallen to current levels and when, consequently, the purchasing power of the greeks has been wiped out. indeed, the amounts granted for public investment in greece were substantial. but the bulk of this money did not remain in the country but went to the big construction companies, many of which are based in the so-called big countries of europe. it would be much more beneficial for the greeks if money were given that would end up in the real economy and help to create an economic environment that would be conducive to growth.
mr president, the european structural and investment funds are the european union's main instruments for directly and indirectly boosting the profitability of business groups. this is acknowledged in the report itself, which states that '63% of all payments (...) were for aid to companies and business projects, directly contributing to the profitability of companies and reducing so-called business risk', while the remaining 37% 'concerned state aid measures for infrastructure projects', which are again needed by large groups to facilitate their activity and profitability. moreover, in the years of record absorptivity, which the syriza-anel government and the european union are boasting of, the anti-working class offensive took off and the greatest losses in wages, pensions and workers' rights were recorded. the kke supports the demands of the workers' movement, which demands that all these funds, which are already coming from the hard taxation of the workers, be used to finance projects of vital importance for the relief and satisfaction of the modern popular needs.
mr president, i would like to say that regulation (eu) 2015/1839 has been a hundred percent successful. the representatives of all political groups admit this, with the sad exception of the far right, which wants europe to be dismantled and does not believe in cohesion policies. the numbers prove the success and the unanimity of the european parliament proves the success. not a single euro has been charged to the european taxpayer, but with this additional liquidity, my country, greece, has a hundred percent absorption in the programme of the previous period. not a single euro has been lost, it is the first to be absorbed in the current period and while, in july 2015, we were discussing grexit of greece from the euro, now we are discussing grexit of greece from the memoranda. this is a success story not only for my country but also for the commission and the european parliament.
mr president, even the most uninformed person about what is happening in europe today can easily see that greece's wealth of all kinds has been looted and pledged for at least another hundred years in order to save the euro and the european banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a fact that some money was given to greece. but if one considers the usurious loans with which this money was given and the fact that this money went either to banks or to construction companies or to other entrepreneurs to speculate and impoverish the greek worker, creating conditions of medieval labor, then one can say that they are able to say what they say because they obviously live in another parallel world. the interest-bearing loans that the creditors have given to greece have impoverished the greek people and have taken away from them any right to hope. the european union owes greece a great deal, and that is what we are asking for, not the crumbs of 22 billion that are being discussed at the moment that will be given to my country.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to express once more my condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims of the recent forest fires in greece. i would like also to pay tribute to the courage and the outstanding work of the brave firefighters who fought the blaze. commissioner stylianides flew to greece in the hours following the tragedy and helped in coordinating the eu response. the union’s civil protection mechanism reacted immediately to greece’s request for assistance. capacities were mobilised and deployed quickly in the affected areas. the response was substantial: first, ground forest-firefighting modules and vehicles from cyprus; second, canadair firefighting planes from italy and spain and two planes from romania were deployed; and nine member states in total made offers. helping countries that face forest fires was a top priority this summer for the european union and it remains a top priority. the commission’s emergency response coordination centre is working 24 hours a day and is in constant contact with national authorities. we stand ready to help greece further whenever needed. with regard to the wildfires in attica, as commissioner for regional policy i was in direct contact with the greek authorities from the moment we knew about the fires. i informed the greek authorities that the commission was ready to act swiftly to release the first payment as soon as possible. in addition, i highlighted the possibility, should the conditions for assistance from the european union solidarity fund be met, for greece to benefit from 95% eu co-financing towards reconstruction work supported by cohesion policy. lastly, i expressed my readiness, after the request from the greek authorities, to modify greek cohesion policy programmes to redirect money towards the regeneration of economic activity in the affected areas.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, at the beginning of today's sitting we observed a minute's silence for the victims of the matti. what happened there is indescribable. people were burned alive. an entire area was destroyed. small and mediumsized enterprises no longer exist. the houses were burned to the ground. the infrastructure is gone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore call on you to move quickly and flexibly to the mobilization of funds from the european solidarity fund. it is necessary to ensure here today that all the available financial instruments from cohesion are at the disposal of the region and the greek government so that the consequences in this area can be dealt with very quickly. the area must be rebuilt and repopulated. the eye must be resurrected, brought back to life with the help of the european union. we therefore call on the european commission to show practical solidarity with greece, as it did with italy in the recent devastating earthquakes of 2016 and 2017. greece, as you know, is a country which has suffered, for many years in a row, a fall in gross domestic product of some 25%. it is therefore necessary to give him exceptional treatment in this case as well. finally, we call on the commission to allow the immediate reallocation of funds so that the european structural funds and the investment fund can deal with the enormous problems, the wounds opened by the fire. the european people's party has already tabled a resolution on this subject on my initiative.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, thank you for everything and for the previous debate. the specific actions we are asking the commission to take in response to this unprecedented tragedy have been described by mrs spyrakis. i'll look at it from another angle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and yet, they burned. the current greek government did not build this model of government. that's why so many others have taken care of it. he chose his leaders with the wrong criteria. he made an almost offensive attempt at communication management, but the point is elsewhere. forty-two structures, each trying to provide nine fire services with no one in charge. this is not only the case with fires, but also with the economy, which suffers from customer circles, the fight against corruption, growth. we therefore ask the greek government to make an explicit commitment that, of the 23,143 responsibilities of the greek services and structures, 30% will be assigned within a few months to solely responsible persons. anything less is unacceptable. it will also be a practical, though belated, apology to the families of the victims as the government finally takes responsibility for preventing such a disaster from happening again.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we express our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, in whose memory we observed a minute's silence just now. i think that our insistence and our determination, which has been constant since last tuesday, to have this debate here is justified because we owe it to the memory of our dead. i am grateful to the house for accepting our proposal. the deadly fires in mati have highlighted the enormous, age-old responsibilities of the greek state and, at the same time, the inadequacies and incompetence of the tsipras government. a failure and incompetence that has led to 98 of our fellow citizens dying in the fire, over 200 injured in hospitals and thousands of homes and businesses in disaster. no self-criticism from the government so far, when, even yesterday, at the thessaloniki international fair, the prime minister had the opportunity to say "sorry". and yet, since july 2017, we had called on the government to use the new regulation on natural disasters that allows the use of 5% of the european regional development fund for flood control projects, for fire protection, for reforestation. the government was silent on our comments and on the comments of ms crețu who, on 29 november 2017, in the plenary session of the parliament in brussels, asked the government to replace its strategy for dealing with natural disasters and pointed out that there was eur 1,3 billion available to greece to deal with these problems. here lies the enormous political responsibility of the tsipras government and yet, instead of the prime minister dismissing the minister in charge of the esdp, he promoted him, made him minister of the interior. so we have to send a message, the government has to change its policy, it has to take advantage of all the opportunities that exist with the structural funds, it has to take advantage of a new design because, after all, the prime minister suddenly found 500 million euros and set up a new office. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on behalf of the entire greek people, beyond parties and factions, i would like to thank the european parliament for its solidarity, for the minute's silence, the commission for what it has done and for what it has said to us, and commissioner crețu and commissioner stylianides and president juncker. human pain is great. ninety-eight people dead. no matter what we say now, no matter what we do, the dead don't come back. the last thing we should do, because we do not deserve it, is to let these dead be the subject of cynical games of petty political confrontation and petty petty tyranny. what are we supposed to do ? we must strengthen political protection, both at national level - and much must change in greece - and at european level, creating a strong umbrella of european protection policy, because climate change is threatening even sweden, because last year we also had many deaths in portugal. we must rebuild mati, and quickly, with european funds, but without private beaches, without arbitrary construction, without the bureaucracy described by mr kyrkos. these are things we have to do together and united.
mr president, to avoid repetition, the actions we propose to take in response to this tragedy have already been described and will be contained in the resolution we are tabling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i believe it is our paramount duty to respond to this urgent need, to make every possible and institutional effort to do so. we must demand, once and for all, that those who have failed in their duty be held to account and held accountable. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fire in mati, with its tragic account, proves this beyond doubt. cuts in civil protection personnel and infrastructure to save greece and debt sustainability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the greek prime minister will be here to discuss the future of greece. please ask him directly what he did wrong and 98 of his fellow citizens and our fellow citizens will never be able to participate in the vision of europe.
mr president, i think that there are phenomena, such as the greenhouse effect, which are making the situation worse for everyone and, especially in greece, we have the arbitrary construction. these are two aggravating factors that put us at greater risk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that in march we reached 98 deaths because, in addition to the factors i have mentioned, there was a combination of administrative disorganization, which has been particularly characteristic of recent years, and the reduction of the public investment programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what bothers me? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we had a similar fire in portugal in 2017, and then the interior minister resigned, apologizing. we had an accident in bulgaria with 18 dead in a car and three ministers resigned, apologizing for the state of the road network. in greece we have a problem, a tragedy, without political and administrative leaders.
mr president, i want to express my heartfelt condolences to the families of the people who have lost their lives unjustly. in the mati region of east attica, hundreds of families were destroyed. the intense natural phenomena and the fatal oligarchy of state officials led to tragic results. as i have asked and as i have asked, european aid and assistance must be immediate, both in infrastructure to prevent further disasters with the winter floods and in repairing the damage so that the inhabitants of the area can get back on their feet. the commission has presented a proposal for the reorganization of the european civil protection mechanism following the deadly fires in portugal last year. it provides for strengthening prevention mechanisms and the creation of resceu, a pan-european pool of tools such as firefighting helicopters and planes, so that there is direct intervention and not voluntary as it is today. it is regrettable, however, that in recent days, and especially after the recent dramatic events, the council has once again chosen to distort the commission's proposal by introducing punitive logic which will effectively exclude countries in the future from using the mechanism we are going to set up today.
mr president, i too would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims. the tragic account of the deadly fire in mati this summer in greece is not explained solely by climate change and the special weather conditions at that time in that area. there is a responsibility on the part of the state authorities to deal with this particular fire. there are political responsibilities that have not been assumed. prosecutors in greece are investigating possible criminal liability. but here, ladies and gentlemen, we have the real dimension of the memorandum policies imposed on greece, the cuts in public spending which have left 4 000 positions in the fire service unfilled, which have deprived the greek public administration of important infrastructure and means of managing natural disasters. the destruction is unprecedented in terms of human casualties, housing and infrastructure. i have already put a question to the commission, which i repeat today on the occasion of this debate, in order to urge it to take immediate action to provide practical support and solidarity to those affected by the disaster and to show the greatest possible flexibility - the precedent is there, it was mentioned - in mobilizing community resources to help the victims and the affected areas.
mr president, first of all i would like to express once again my condolences to the families of the victims of this unspeakable tragedy and to wish a speedy recovery to the injured, some of whom are still in hospital. no one doubts that on that dark day conditions were such as to favour the rapid spread of the fire and leave little room for the authorities to react. unfortunately, however, the authorities did not take advantage of this opportunity. instead, they have shown criminal negligence and negligence. the traffic of cars in the burning areas was not safely regulated and instead of evacuating the area, they sent people from marathon avenue to mati, which led to such a high number of victims. although they knew of the weather conditions that would prevail, there was not the slightest preparation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the regional governor is responsible for the region and the mayor for the municipality. the responsibilities of the attica region are therefore enormous, as are those of the municipality of marathon. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the fire brigades in the area of kineta, which originated in the eastern part of attica, are not sufficiently staffed when the fire broke out in mati, and that the first responders are volunteers.
mr president, i too offer my condolences to the families of those who were killed in the attica incident and i also wish a speedy recovery to those who are still injured. the biblical catastrophe which occurred in this area very close to athens has given us the opportunity to reflect on certain things and, although we cannot exercise politics, micro-politics if you will, over corpses, the elementary respect for the memory of those who have died obliges us to reflect on the responsibilities and to ask that the greek government be relieved of its pathology and incompetence. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's citizens are not discriminated against, but also a means of ensuring that the community's citizens are not discriminated against. on the other hand, it is a first-class opportunity for the european union to show solidarity, to provide financial assistance to greece and to try to alleviate the suffering of those who are still alive.
mr president, the tragedy in mati, with 98 dead and hundreds of injured, was a foretold crime of the age-old policy of governments - and of the present one - which undermine forest protection and firefighting, which commercialise land without comprehensive protection policy planning. in her reply to kke meps, commissioner crețu cynically ruled out the possibility of compensating the victims, stating that compensation for damage to private property is not eligible either under the erdf or the european union solidarity fund. the european union is not eligible, on the basis of cost-benefit policy, obviously, for the compensation of fire-damaged people, but only for the revitalisation of local economies, as it notes in its reply. it is clear that the criterion is always profit, and that is why we do not choose flood control projects, because once they are completed they do not add value to the european union, as you say. in the face of these inadequate measures by the government and the european union, after the deadly fire, the workers are intensifying and strengthening their struggle in an organized way to demand immediate compensation for residents and professionals in the area for one hundred percent of the total damage and the satisfaction of all their immediate and pressing needs.
mr president, the right to work of every individual is sacred and inalienable because, by working, a person not only ensures the livelihood of himself and his family, but also feels a sense of mental equilibrium and social status. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. it is also a basic duty of every state to ensure the smooth reintegration into employment of those who have been temporarily removed from work, either by accident or by illness. it's immoral to use these people just to work and then forget about them. we have an obligation to integrate all returning workers into society and at the same time to create the conditions which will confirm and ensure their moral dignity and worth.
mr president, sexual harassment and coercion, especially in the workplace, is an unacceptable and reprehensible attitude and practice, but it is inherent in human nature. it is strong, it is valid and it will be valid in the future unless the necessary measures are taken. primarily, this mentality is expressed and based on the philosophy of certain men that by acting in this way they are either self-affirming or dominating their victim. of course, they are as indifferent to the violation of his human rights as to the reduction of his personality. more than that, they are indifferent to the emotional and psychological trauma they inflict on their victim. so this must be addressed, and to address it, young men must be trained not to see this as either a status or a status issue. it's actually a veiled form of cowardice. if we do not move in this direction, no matter how many definitions we give, no matter how many analyses we make, we are not going to achieve the desired result.
mr president, there is no more cynical mockery than the syriza-anel government's celebrations that the memoranda in greece are over. no memorandum law is repealed. a few crumbs in extreme poverty simply justify new privileges in capital. supervision is intensified and assures markets and investors that the sacrifice of the people is well-kept, that they can invest profitably. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. the memoranda of the european union and of governments are here to stay, unless the peoples fight to eradicate them, unless they eliminate the main culprits: capital and its profits and its political power.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank the greek prime minister, mr tsipras, and the greek members of the european parliament for their support for the european union. in listening to you, i was reminded of mr samara who, four years ago, was sitting where you are sitting and told us about the success story of his second memorandum. today you told us about the success story of your third memorandum and when, when you leave burnt land, and i don't mean mati, when you have turned greece into a vast social graveyard, when we have thousands of unemployed, when we have millions of poor, when our youth is leaving for foreign countries, when there is a pension cut, when we have hunger wages, when there is a looting of public property, with the occupation fund that will operate for 99 years, when we have a tax reset in the pockets of the greeks, the tax-deferred enaf, the increase in vat in the aegean islands, which if not others are being overtaken by refugees and illegal immigrants. you have left unanswered unrelenting questions, mr tsipras, that is why mr gonzález pons and the european people's party are waving at you, you have not told us where the 288 billion euros that greece took as loans went because, if you had told us, you would have said what mr dijsselbloem also said, that these funds went to save the lenders, to save the foreign banks, to really save the euro itself and not the greek citizens. because that's the reality. you must tell us, mr tsipras, why you are implementing the memorandum measures 100% when you have taken only 70% of the loan capital of the third memorandum and returned 24 billion euros, like a purse strings, back to the lenders, when you could have used that money to create a borrowers' rescue fund so that greeks would not lose their homes to the crows, recapitalise the insurance funds so that pensions would not be reduced, create 300 000 new jobs so that we would have growth. and you're running the budgetary austerity of the creditors. i ask you, mr tsipras: will you implement what you said in 2014? will you put the german reparations in the state budget ? will you order the execution of the distoom's decision on german reparations? after you have applied the enhanced supervision you have accepted and regulation 472, apply at least one point from that regulation, the one that allows you to do an audit of the debt. that is the reality but there is another way, mr. tsipras. there is another way, which must be followed. you told us about the despicable prespa agreement that makes a real free man out of mr zaev, who will come here on thursday and pretend to be macedonian, talk about supposed macedonian ethnicity, talk about supposed macedonian language, talk about supposed macedonian citizenship and not north macedonians. we therefore believe in a special relationship for greece within the european union and within the eurozone, a special relationship with regulations in important sectors of the greek economy that will give greece a breathing space, so that there is a strong greece within the europe of nations and homelands, within a europe that respects national identity, respects national traditions, protects the greek family, protects the european family and solves the demographic problem, not with mass migration, but with the support of the european family itself. these are our positions, mr. tsipras. we remain unrepentantly anti-memorandum and we are fighting to throw the troika out of greece and take back our country.
mr president, the so-called new era that mr tsipras is proclaiming is the preservation of the 700 memorandum laws, a commitment he has made here as well, is the permanent supervision of the european union, the bloody surpluses of decades, is the financing and tax breaks for the profitability of capital. the four-yearly crumbs are a challenge for the workers and are being wiped out by the harsh taxation, the new pension cuts and the tax-free allowance. it is clear that there can be no fair development in an unjust exploitative system, that the european union only makes the people worse off. the future of the european union is the hollow collective agreements which in greece leave out 90% of the workers and those who work for 300 and 400 euros, with unemployment and flexible working at a high level in the syriza-anel government's work gallery, as well as in the governments of new democracy and pasok. it's the house auctions, it's the strike strike strike. it's the deportations of migrants or their confinement in the islands. it is pro-capitalist politics that feeds the extreme right and that is why the pseudo-division of progressives on the one hand and conservatives on the other is a fraud. the vision of syriza is what it has agreed with the united states, the european union and capital. the only thing it has to offer the people is the perpetuation of poverty and exploitation, new and greater risks from the country's involvement in american-oriented plans in the balkans, the promotion of dangerous agreements such as that of prespa that put the peoples on new adventures. the communist party of greece is fighting against imperialist plans. he fights for the abolition of all memorandum laws, the recovery of losses, the satisfaction of modern needs. only the people can impose these things by their struggle.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your work in this parliament. you've changed a lot since 2015. but it did cost the greek people eur 100 billion, not mr gonzález pons, but mr regling of the esm and mr wieser of the eurogroup working group, who told you about eur 200 billion. you have risked the greek people mortgaging state property until 2114, for a century, and you have built a society, mr tsipras, not of the 700 euros you accused but of the 350 euros. what you are signing, as you have been very rightly told, cannot be solved by anyone, not even an opec oil producer. but i do have two questions for you. the first point is that you have mentioned that there is a great enemy in europe and we are concerned about it, populism, and indeed there is right-wing populism in france and germany. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this, but i am saying that it should be the only one to be able to do it. what is your response to those who accuse you of being the most authentic representative of left-wing populism, you and podemos in spain? and one more thing: on thursday we will have a visit from your colleague, mr zaev, from skopje. after june 17 and after the referendum, he will represent the state of north macedonia. what should we call him in the european parliament? north macedonian representing north macedonia as a nation and speaking the north macedonian language or just macedonian representing the macedonian nation and the macedonian language? i'd like an answer to that, mr. prime minister.
mr president, welcome to the european parliament. three years ago when you came here, there was a fear of grexit from the euro, and now everyone, even your fanatical opponents here, are certifying grexit from the memoranda. i understand that the european right and the european far right are annoyed that a left-wing prime minister has achieved these positive objectives. we are not finished with the crisis, but we have taken a big positive step and i note that your speech today is characterized by left-wing realism, a plan and practical effectiveness for what we have launched in greece, but it also announces a clear progressive plan for europe, which can lead to alliances of wider forces, progressive, democratic, against the backwardness caused by the rising far right and the rapid urbanisation of the european people's party. the positive comments on your speech from the presidents of the left, the socialists, the greens and the liberals show the positive change.
mr prime minister, i welcome you here in the temple of democracy, as you called the european parliament in 2015. a little later you found the courage and the wisdom, yourself, to sign a new agreement with the european institutions which, while not avoiding harsh measures or failures, put an end to the fruitless confrontations and the anguish of the greeks. since then, and while the future of europe is being undermined, as you said, by various forces, greece has followed a different path and one which is in line with european values. i would like to mention briefly the response to the refugee crisis, the prespa agreement and the smooth conclusion of the loan agreement. but as you know better than i do, the road is still long and difficult and requires a policy of consensus on the big issues, genuine political alliances and avoiding the civil strife that has only caused misery in the country. i hope you share these needs, mr prime minister, and i welcome you back.
mr president, you describe the future of a europe of peace, solidarity and prosperity for the peoples as we have envisioned it. but in the absence of the peoples and of democracy, policies are being implemented which flout these values, which are turning to the extreme right and reviving fascism. you're proud of what you've achieved with the greek bailout, that you've protected vulnerable groups, but you forgot to tell us that you've even painlessly cut widow's pensions. the people with trampled dignity at the edge of survival, the country devastated by its saviors expels immigrants its learned minds and its tapirs obedient and willing to rewrite its history as dictated. this is the future of greece and europe in today's europe. on this present, what future are you planning? mr. prime minister, we were both elected to denounce these policies because we knew full well that they were murderous and destructive to the country. but you have called them 'salvation' and you are faithfully applying them, while we both know very well what alternatives you could and should have applied. you have no alibi. do not hope for any leniency when the time comes for both your political and historical crisis.
mr president, what human values did the greek prime minister speak of? the ones that sent civilians and small children to the hospital the day before yesterday in thessaloniki? the presence of mr tsipras in the european parliament demonstrates the evil, divisive, treasonous and self-destructive future of europe. a prime minister who, in order to seize power, cursed and blamed all those who today praise him for the disintegration of greece from nato, the european union to america, a prime minister who mirrors the left who seeks to abolish borders, alter responsibilities and devalue family, religion and patriotism. mr tsipras, your government's presence confirms left-wing fascism and ethno-zionism. you have signed agreements that are destructive to my country, succumbing to threats and interests. by operating with cynicism and selfishness, you have dismantled a brilliant nation. you have surrendered the name, history and culture of the macedonians, and you have suppressed the greek reaction of the greek people with chemicals and beatings. unfortunately for you and fortunately for my country, there are still greek patriots who believe and cry out: greece first!
welcome to the prime minister's office. i confess i'm confused. four years ago you were protesting against neoliberal austerity, but if we believe mr moscovici, you have implemented its prescription, the third memorandum, to the letter. you also co-govern with a small nationalist, often far-right party, but you have resolutely supported the union's life-saving agreement with turkey against your more right-wing friends and have boldly promoted the hopeful agreement with fyrom-macedonia that offers stability in the balkans. today you rightly pointed out that we need more europe in solidarity. in the pro-european and progressive front you propose, where do you draw the lines? is there room for the whole radical left, some of whose members have already applied to have you expelled? are the liberals of verhofstadt really devils or angels ? but the five stars who co-rule with the far-right salvini? is macron a hope or a banker after all? please give us a clean slate because we're in the run-up to an election.
mr president, i should like to be specific in order to raise the interest of the greek public. i would like to hear from mr tsipras whether he is going to cut pensions on new year's day 2019, as he has signed with the european institutions and as he has voted in parliament, despite the objections of our party, or whether he will not cut pensions at all, as many government officials are promising the greek people. this is hugely important because it helps us to judge whether we are out of the crisis or, at any rate, whether the crisis is continuing in other ways. i would also like to hear from him what he intends to do about the vat rate on the five islands affected by the refugee crisis. he's postponed his raise; but will he raise it on new year's day 2019?
mr prime minister, i welcome you to the european parliament. honestly, i wasn't going to take the floor until i heard the first round of your answer. i have listened carefully to your statement that there is nepotism in greece, that there are pinochet supporters. i was expecting, since yesterday we had a very interesting debate here on how the european union should support maat, and we have brought together all the political groups to support maat, that you would feel that you are the prime minister of greece and not bring the internal political debate here. unless you think that nepotism is being elected the leader of a party with hundreds of thousands of votes and that nepotism is not having family members of your party's top officials serve in government; unless you think pinochet's fans are people who make unfortunate and wrong approaches and not those who drown in tear gas those who protest because you handed over the macedonian nation and macedonian language to the neighbors. i really want to ask you from the opposition seats what perspective will you offer the greeks? the one about the split?
prime minister of greece. mr president, there have been many interesting questions, many interesting points of view. i will not be able to answer all of them, but i will try to answer as many as i can. i should like to begin by answering the question put to me by mr kefalogiannis, a distinguished friend and well-known figure in the greek parliament, about the presence in the european parliament in a few days' time of the prime minister of our neighbouring country, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which, if all goes well, and i hope all goes well, will change its name and constitution in a few months' time and be known as 'northern macedonia'. mr kefalogiannis, in all the previous years when mr zaev's predecessor, mr gruevski, visited the european parliament or other european institutions, what did he call himself and what did your colleagues, the vast majority of your colleagues, and of course the vast majority of your colleagues in the european people's party, call him? how did you do that ? what is it ? mr kefalogiannis, we are here in the european parliament and therefore we cannot operate as we have done many times in greece, with our heads buried in the sand like ostriches, with a taboo around us, only we greeks, while the rest of the world - and of course here in the european parliament you know this very well - was in another reality. because 140 countries around the world, including the largest, the united states of america, china, russia, recognize our neighbouring country by its constitutional name, which it has had for 25 years. and its constitutional name is simply "macedonia". and of course mr gruevski and all the officials have called themselves "macedonians" all these years, but i didn't see you bothered by that. i also did not see you bothered when, all the previous years, both mr zaev and all his fellow citizens entered greece - and they did well and entered greece and also took mass holidays on the greek coasts, because this strengthened the greek economy - they entered the country with a passport that said what? it said "macedonians". from now on and after the agreement, the passport will say "citizens of north macedonia". that sentence will be added. i also do not know if it is of any value to you - it is of great value to me - that all these years ago mr zaev's predecessor, with whom we have an excellent cooperation, mr gruevski, who belongs to the nationalist right, the far right, had filled his country, every city and every square in the neighbouring country, with statues of alexander the great and all those symbols which are characteristic of ancient greek macedonia and are an integral part of greek history and tradition. from now on, no one will have the right to do this in the neighboring country. the current prime minister of our neighbouring country, and future prime ministers, will not have the right to invoke alexander the great and greek history as their own. isn't that important to you? and of course, perhaps most important of all, every prime minister of a neighbouring country will henceforth confirm the distinctly slavic origin of his people and language. this, mr. big head, has never happened before. i would like to ask you not to turn this into an internal debate and to ask all members to understand something. in greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia both i and zoran zaev are under heavy attack. we're both accused of being traitors. mr mitsotakis in greece and mr mickoski in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, who belong to the political family of the people's party, accuse us, with the same exact argumentation, which is just changing the flag, of being traitors and having brought about a harmful agreement. i would therefore like to put it to your judgment, ladies and gentlemen, and say that, precisely because both of our conservative leaders accuse us of being traitors and having made a treacherous deal, we have probably done something good for our peoples, both i and zoran zaev. we are opening a road to the future, to peace, to the prospect of cooperation and coexistence between our peoples, a road which will make history. and i'm proud that we've accomplished that. i think that a hungarian member of parliament referred to mr orbán as 'the bad pupil' as opposed to me as 'the good pupil', in view of the fact that my colleague, mr orbán, will be in the chamber in a few hours' time. look, i want to answer you on the merits. because, you know, you can't judge politicians or policies by labeling them, but by looking at and making a political critique of the ideas they represent and the values they espouse. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. some in the european union can make politics on the safe side, too, because their countries are closed off and have land borders, not sea; the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a european union but also a european union. you said we brought the immigrants. - i know. i thought that wars brought this big wave of migration and refugees to europe. i would like to ask you in reply: do you really think that any country in europe, even if it is small and enclosed and without a sea border, can survive on its own? without help? without solidarity ? without cooperation? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the council's interest to do so. europe cannot go on like this. i also heard a colleague of yours talk about a treacherous future for europe. the logic of 'every man for himself', the logic of 'greece first', 'france first', 'italy first' is a logic which will lead europe to disintegration. i have tried to address this very point in my speech. i heard my friend, the mep from potami, miltiades kirko, say he was confused. yes, miltiades, it is a confusing reality we live in. and we must in this confusing reality all of us sort out what the primary threat is. the differences i have with many other colleagues, both from the left and from the social democratic group, and even from the liberal centre or the ecology group, are given. but at the moment the serpent's egg is being laid in europe, as it was in the 1930s. and just as in the 1930s the prime threat was met by the broadest possible unity of forces that had differences, i believe that is our duty today. and to close this whole immigration report, i want to say that i am happy with what we have achieved on the mainland, but the situation on the greek islands is extremely difficult. this situation does not honor either of us. but we are obliged to support an agreement without which things would be much worse for all of us. that is why greece needs support. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and of course, when we talk about refugees or migrants, we need to talk not just about numbers and tough numbers and statistics, but to look behind the numbers and the faces of these people who have names, surnames. they may not be european names, they may not be familiar names to us, but these people have a name, a face, feelings, values, beliefs and they want to live a better life. i heard the new democracy press spokeswoman and mep, mrs spyrakis, leave me. i am glad that, as i said, dialogue and debate are the lifeblood of democracy. i want to tell you the following, mrs. sparky. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nothing to do with the big rallies that actually happened in february. i know i'm the last person to deny the inalienable right of every citizen to protest in a democratic state. but i would like to remind you, mrs spyrakis, that for years you were the one who, as a prominent journalist on a television station, almost every night, when we had indeed mass demonstrations with indeed great repression, for the first five years you came out of your station and practically exercised the function of information, as you yourself admitted, in a way that concealed the truth. at that time you were not particularly sensitive either to presenting the real numbers of the protests or to highlight the repression and violence that these protests suffered. today i see you have a special sensitivity. i'm glad you're feeling that way. but i want to assure all your colleagues here in the european parliament that sensitivity should not be a la carte and that in greece there is neither repression nor violence. on the contrary, in the course of these three years, the social, political and democratic rights of citizens have been enhanced by a series of legislative interventions. i would like to conclude without offending your other colleague and fellow citizen, mr curcio, because he has asked specific questions. ladies and gentlemen, you all know that greece, having left the adjustment programmes, is now a country like all the other countries of the euro zone, with a peculiarity, like of course all the countries which have been in programmes of enhanced monitoring and cooperation with the institutions and particularly with the commission. like the other eurozone countries, therefore, greece will henceforth be obliged to meet the targets we have jointly set, our obligations, namely the fiscal target of a surplus of 3.5% of gdp by 2022. that's our deal. but it will be the greek government of the day that will choose the means and policies to meet these objectives, as is the case in all other eurozone countries and those that have left programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will do the same this year in relation to 2019 and together we will take those decisions that will be the right ones in order to strengthen the growth potential of the greek economy. and growth potential means no more austerity, no more cuts, increased consumption, to the extent, of course, that this will allow us to meet the budgetary targets. it's that simple. i would like to conclude with a comment on the future of europe. the question was raised as to how we dream of the democratization of the euro area and the course of the european union from now on. we do believe in the need for political engagement. and we do believe in strengthening the role of parliament. you will remember that i was one of those who tried and succeeded in ensuring that the debate on the budgetary adjustment programme in greece over the last three years was not held behind closed doors and that the european parliament played a substantial role in that debate; that policies were not decided behind closed doors. i don't know if we've got all that. but we have made an effort in that direction. i also believe that in the crucial period ahead we must decide on a strengthened community budget, on a budgetary programme which will make it possible to strengthen convergence between the member states of the euro area and, of course, on the possibility of greater transparency and greater accountability in the period ahead. i support the view of a eurozone finance minister, but i also believe in the need for a eurozone social cohesion minister. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not, and i am not, in favour of a two-speed europe. we are in favour of a functioning europe, of the enhanced cooperation provided for in the existing european treaties, especially if it is through this that our objective of a democratic, social and ecological europe can be achieved. with these thoughts, i would like to thank you all very warmly for your interest, for your questions, for your debate and to tell you that, despite our disagreements, our strong disagreements, despite our tensions, we have managed to take a step forward. we have managed to escape the great vortex of crisis. let us draw our conclusions on the causes that led us to this, so that we can now make the major changes that europe needs, so that we do not repeat the same mistakes, so that we do not find ourselves in the same difficult position as we did in previous years.
in writing. the greek meps are wearing the national team jersey. you have addressed the european parliament today as the leader of syriza, not as the prime minister of the country. you've talked about widespread corruption, the squandering of money on health care by previous governments, regardless of whether you tarnish the image of our country. greece is fighting to get out of the crisis on the basis of the sacrifices of the greek people, not on the basis of the non-existent success story of your government, as you have tried to present it. you have caused damage to the economy of over 100 billion euros, mortgaged public property for 99 years, tied the country to unrealistic surpluses until 2060, imposed additional measures of 15 billion euros, cut benefits for low-retirees, the elderly and the disabled. your economic populism has squandered five years of sacrifices, brought about capital controls, deprived the country of its quantitative easing programme and sent thousands of young people abroad. you blamed the previous government, which was generally accepted to be ready to exit the memoranda at the end of 2014. the samara government has attracted eur 34 billion in investment in two years, while you have not brought in a single new serious investment in three and a half years. you have described the prespes agreement as a model for resolving disputes, and with it you have given our neighbours a macedonian language and identity, backing away from the fixed greek positions.
in writing. our people expect clear answers, no evasions, no pointless arguments without substance. at a time when the government is closing its ears to the will of our fellow citizens for the attempted tsipras-zaev agreement, at a time when our country needs unity, the prime minister once again preferred to blame the new democracy and the previous governments in front of his foreign colleagues. in the debate on the future of europe, mr tsipras would be better off focusing on our young people going abroad, on our cultural heritage being celebrated by the eu this year, on the disparity of opportunities and jobs between northern and southern countries even today, eight years after the start of the crisis. the citizens are agitating. the time has come for the european parliament to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the commission's proposals.
president of the lebanese republic. (the following is a transcript of the interpretation of the original speech from arabic into french) mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here today at the european parliament's headquarters in strasbourg, facing the elected representatives of 28 states who have chosen to make the european continent a model without equal in the world. a model of exchange, integration and unity at all levels, which transforms the countries of the european union into a single space in which the dreams of the peoples are merged and in which the principles and ideals are shared, while safeguarding each peculiarity and civilization and the belonging of the peoples to their land, their language, their heritage and their homeland. the strength of this democratic construction and edifice has helped to consolidate genuine peace within the european continent, thus putting an end to the temptation to resort to war as the only method of solving problems. these peoples and states believe that their strength, interests and prosperity depend on their unity and shared democratic values, not on conflict to ensure their success. it is very regrettable that we are currently witnessing the emergence of certain separatist and secessionist tendencies which threaten the balance of this pioneering building in the meeting of peoples. ladies and gentlemen, at this time in our history when the voice of humanity is weakening and the interests of the great powers are overstepping all bounds to the detriment of justice and human solidarity, we believe that only dialogue, mutual respect and a return to the implementation of the universal principles of human rights, of communities and of countries will help to defuse the violence, wars and extremism which have turned the world and our region of the middle east into a place inflamed by hatred, fear and tension. war, although the economy is the real engine, cannot be built on a solid foundation; it requires a cracked, permeable ground ready to burn. nothing like the incitement to intolerance, religious, communal and ethnic extremism, nothing like the rejection of the other to cause this disintegration, to crack the foundation and ignite the flames of war. what is happening in our region today ties us even more closely to the very foundations on which the lebanese state was built and, above all, to the democratic regime that characterises it, which - despite certain shortcomings - brings together all the components of the lebanese people and reflects the very essence of the message of lebanon, a country of coexistence, diversity, pluralism and cultural richness. the conflict in our region has divided lebanon politically, but not nationally. the political speeches were heated, but they did not set the powder on fire. when some left the normal path to embrace extremism and fundamentalist thought, they were immediately rejected by both their community and the country. indeed, lebanese society, by its very nature, is not a fertile ground for extremism and the rejection of others. respect for freedom of belief, freedom of expression and opinion and the right to differ are an integral part of lebanese culture. this lebanese characteristic helps the country to overcome its problems and consolidate its peace and stability. it can also serve as an example for other countries to build a future that is more in tune and in step with modernity and human rights, especially if we succeed in closing some gaps and achieving the democratic maturity we aspire to. in this context, lebanon greatly appreciates the european union's awareness of its specificity, its uniqueness. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe expressed this in the second paragraph of its resolution 2150, in which it stresses the many specificities and the great religious diversity that make lebanon a unique country. lebanon is the oldest democracy in the middle east, political power is shared equally between christians and muslims, making it an example of peaceful coexistence which must be supported if it is to continue along this path. ladies and gentlemen, dear members of parliament, last may lebanon held parliamentary elections, despite some political tensions which delayed their holding, and they were held under a modern electoral law based on proportional representation. these elections resulted in a more balanced and precise representation of the political forces present, thus allowing for greater diversity within the parliament and thus strengthening democratic life. in this context, i must therefore welcome the work carried out by the eu election observation mission, led by mrs elena valenciano, which accompanied the various stages of the preparation of the elections and the conduct of the voting. this election observation mission of the european parliament presented a positive report on the electoral process last july. the report contains a number of new recommendations designed to fill in some of the gaps. these recommendations will certainly be taken into account in the future. we wish to strengthen cooperation between our parliament and the european parliament by intensifying joint meetings and exchanges of experience, in order to promote the performance and activity of our legislative power, in accordance with current requirements. ladies and gentlemen, my country is facing many challenges at the moment, including a difficult economic environment. we have recently launched an economic plan, the outlines of which outline a road map for the revival of productive sectors and the modernisation of our country's infrastructure. this plan reinforces the decisions taken at the cedre conference. i have made the fight against corruption and the promotion of transparency one of my priorities. we have already made some progress in this area. ladies and gentlemen, lebanon has borne its share of the burden of the economic, social and security crises in the region. terrorist organizations have infiltrated our borders to the east and north to make them a springboard for their bloody operations inside lebanese territory. however, our army launched a successful military offensive, which ended in the defeat of the terrorists and the liberation of our territories. our army has continued its work in collaboration with all state organs and services, in order to dismantle the sleeper terrorist cells until their total elimination. we have thus been able to restore security and stability to the country. the crisis caused by the displaced syrians is the one that weighs heavily on lebanon. the consequences are devastating for the economic, security and social sectors. in the name of human solidarity, lebanon has welcomed over one and a half million refugees who have fled the hell of the war in syria. however, in a small country like ours, with a high population density, limited resources and already suffering from weak infrastructure and rising unemployment, this burden is very difficult to bear. you are well aware of the devastating effects of the presence of syrian refugees. the international community has not taken its share of responsibility in supporting lebanon in the face of the effects of the presence of migrants. we therefore call for the decisions on financial support, in particular those adopted at the brussels conference, to be implemented. we also ask that the reservations we have expressed on certain points in the final communiqué of the brussels conference be taken into account, in particular those relating to the voluntary return of refugees or displaced persons, in particular the link between this return and the political solution, or the integration of migrants or displaced persons into the labour market in the host countries. it should be recalled in this connection that lebanon is a country of emigration and not a country of settlement, much less a labour market. the lebanese people scattered throughout the world, and on the european continent in particular, are proof of this. today, lebanon aims to ensure the safe and dignified return of displaced syrians and rejects any delaying tactics in this regard. my country supports any initiative aimed at finding a solution to the mass displacement of syrians on its territory, as is the case with the russian initiative, and refuses to link the return of displaced people to a political solution that could be delayed. i would like to remind you that since 1948 the palestinian people have been living in camps, particularly in lebanon, awaiting a political solution and the implementation of resolution 194. after 70 years of waiting, instead of a solution to the palestinian problem, a project of permanent settlement is unfortunately beginning to loom on the horizon, as if the international community were adopting the policy of "giving what you do not have to those who do not deserve it". ladies and gentlemen, on this day of 11 september, we commemorate the events of 11 september 2001, a pivotal date that changed the course of world history and led the united states to declare war on terrorism, with the promise of establishing freedom, democracy and putting an end to terrorism. unfortunately, for 17 years now, the war on terrorism has spread terrorism around the world, rather than stopping it. i quote from an open letter i sent to world leaders in 1995, in which i warned them against the danger of the rise of fundamentalism which was beginning to emerge in some countries. i wrote: 'the recent events in bosnia-herzegovina, algeria and, to a lesser extent, paris are only the first signs of the conflicts that will threaten us tomorrow, and which neither nuclear deterrence nor conventional warfare can stop. fundamentalism, born of inequality in the application of international law and of the frustrations of unbalanced development, risks drowning an entire civilization in obscurantism. no one is immune to the violence that ethnic and fundamentalist passions unleash, and no borders can contain it. these viruses, cultivated in the laboratories of political realism, are they not likely to infect those who, indifferently or as accomplices, have allowed them to germinate? unfortunately, the whole world is now suffering the consequences of the experiments of the laboratories of political realism and the ignoring of the warning signs that could have put us on the right track. i would add that international policy in the middle east only exacerbates radicalisation and hatred and opens the way to violence and terrorism. there is no doubt that these unjust policies are throwing a wrench in the implementation of democracy, and this in the pioneer countries, those who were the first to build it into a political system. can preserving human rights at home and sacrificing them abroad help serve the interests of the great powers and be synonymous with democracy? this same policy has led israel to judaize jerusalem and make it its capital, ignoring all international resolutions and the votes of the security council and the un general assembly. israel did not stop there, it even passed the law of the "jewish nation-state". in addition, the recent us decision to stop funding unrwa has marked the beginning of the de facto settlement of palestinians in the countries that have hosted them, including lebanon. an implantation we reject in the name of justice and equality. ladies and gentlemen, i come here today on behalf of lebanon, the 'message country' as the holy father john paul ii called it. its 5,000-year-old civilization, with its deep and multiple roots, has allowed its children, in its many and varied facets and dimensions, to spread across the world and to integrate into all cultures, wherever they go. i take the opportunity to be here today to renew the call, already made, particularly from the united nations platform, to make lebanon a permanent centre of dialogue between civilizations, religions and races. this project is being followed by our ambassadors around the world and we hope that it will be proposed at the next session of the un general assembly in 2019, as we hope that it will receive the support of european countries. who better than the countries of europe to know the importance of dialogue in order to fill the gaps, heal the wounds and establish a culture of peace? i want to thank you for having me here today. thank you for your attention. long live europe, long live lebanon, and long live the people of lebanon. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, i ask for the floor on the procedural point in relation to the previous debate with the prime minister of greece, mr tsipras, a debate which was broadcast live on greek television, and the speech by mr tsipras, mr dombrovskis, the representatives of the ppe and the socialist party was broadcast and, as soon as i got the floor, the television stopped the live broadcast. this is the republic of cyprus so that our opinions are not heard! i denounce it and point out that, under these conditions, we cannot go to the european elections. we cannot go to the european elections without all the opinions being expressed! and i note that in 2015 mr tsipras' speech and debate in parliament were broadcast, that in 2014 the entire debate with mr samaras was broadcast. we denounce the undemocratic process and call on our friends on the european left to take a stand!
mr president, fortunately you are giving us the right to speak here and fortunately what we are saying is being recorded and broadcast here because, as i complained to you before, at the time when my speech began in this chamber, in the presence of mr tsipras, the greek radio and television, which was broadcasting the programme, cut me off to prove that there is no longer any pluralism in greece. this is democracy in greece, on these terms, with democracy by tsipras, we will go to the polls. in any case, i want to say that the measures taken for greece have really supported the greek economy, but we say 'i'll burn you, yannis, i'll oil you' - that is, after the memoranda imposed by the european union destroyed the greek economy, the european union then changed the rules to bring liquidity to greece. this is the reality.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. take what happened in greece: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vat rate is reduced, and that the vat rate is reduced, and that the commission is able to take action to ensure that the vat rate is reduced. and mr tsipras, with the blessing of mr dombrovskis and others, has imposed a value-added tax increase on the islands. what kind of regulation and support for border areas are we talking about when this is happening on the aegean islands which are full of refugees and illegal immigrants? we must put into practice all the measures taken by the european union to support the regions, so that the border regions can really develop and not be dismantled.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission in its efforts to promote the use of the internet. but i want to come to the european union itself. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. there is no translation into other languages. is the eurogroup decision imposing a memorandum on greece until 2060, issued on 21 june 2018, translated into any language? no, it is only in english and greek citizens are invited to apply this decision. it's unacceptable what's going on. i am also pleased to note that the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has recently decided to reject my amendments because i am submitting them in greek and they wanted me to submit them in english and they rejected them! the european parliament must apply democracy here in the chamber, in its institutions, and give equal access to all languages!
mr president, unfortunately we are witnessing an extremely dangerous attempt by certain officials and leaders of the european union to destroy the independence of a member state in order to impose their own ideology on it, contrary to the will of the hungarian people. the interventions being attempted and the attempt to bring hungary back to the policies favoured by brussels are a bomb to the foundations of the union. firstly, the areas in which objections are raised are not areas of competence of the union but rather fall within the competence of the states, which must be respected. but even more important is the fact that the hungarian people approve and support the changes that the hungarian government is trying to implement, as demonstrated in the recent elections. in fact, contrary to the practice of most governments, these reforms were included in prime minister orbán's election programme. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that there is a huge risk for all member states if the pursuit of sanctions by some proceeds and i call on all of you to abandon immediately any such thinking and also to stop interfering in the internal politics of an independent and sovereign member state.
mr president, tomorrow will not be judged solely on whether artists and creators survive in our digital age. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the result of the committee on legal affairs was already a balanced compromise, but it has been greatly improved by the new proposals of mr voss. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. tomorrow's vote will judge not only the future of artists but something more serious than that, the quality of democracy in europe.
the election of mr trump should have triggered europe's healthy reflexes in time to develop new foundations, new alliances, new convergences. that didn't happen. one would expect our divergence from the us on the iran nuclear deal to create momentum to pursue an autonomous foreign policy and counterbalance the destructive us policy. that didn't happen either. the decision of the united states to set off a time bomb in the middle east by moving the embassy to jerusalem should have been met with action, not just words. but that didn't happen either. even when the united states started this dangerous economic war, everyone expected a united and determined europe to react and resist. but the joint trump-juncker statement has contradicted us. you're talking about a strategic partnership. our relationship is as you describe it: strategic partner the united states, minor partner the european union. europe now has both the memory and the maturity to pursue an independent foreign policy. stop reducing her to a stuntwoman.
mr president, i am frankly very surprised at this blatant attempt by the european parliament to interfere in the internal politics of the united states of america. at the same time, of course, there is a strong reaction to the possibility that the us might do the same, and the author of the report goes so far as to separate the us state from its president, a practice that in international diplomacy is only followed in the case of hostile states with dictatorial leaders. so i would like to remind you that mr trump is the democratically elected president of the united states and that as long as he continues to be president, he represents his country at the highest level. i therefore ask you to remove from the report those specific passages which will only harm our relations with the united states, despite your allegedly contrary objective. finally, if you really want to continue the good relations, the union should take up its responsibilities, since at present we are only seeing the continuing attempt to exploit the american market by mainly german european companies, while the corresponding penetration of american companies into the european market is being systematically undermined. this fact is easily seen by looking at the us-german trade balance. good relations require first of all equal treatment of all parties.
mr president, the situation in the mediterranean remains unsustainable from a humanitarian point of view. but a tragedy cannot be solved by placing an unfair and unmanageable burden on the backs of european citizens, perpetuating and transferring the management of the problem to the european territory, to the detriment of fundamental rights and against our own needs in the areas of public health, public order and national security. the libyan coastguard's capabilities must be strengthened. the work they do is serious and necessary. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world. the restoration of law and order requires first of all the adoption of preventive measures against the arrival of illegal immigrants. it's the only way to limit the human toll. on the contrary, open ports, the uncontrolled and dubious legality of ngo shipyards and the acceptance of illegal migrants are an incentive to cross the mediterranean rather than a deterrent and effective method of dealing with it.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in greece, and the european parliament has also expressed its views on the situation in greece. we have remembered that the economic crisis was paid for by the popular classes and the countries of the south. the european parliament has been reminded or confirmed that the priority in europe and the eurozone is the interests of the banks and the multinationals, not the workers and the youth. this is the european union, this is the state of the european union, this is the character of the european union. we have understood from mr juncker's speech that the future of the european union will now be the intensification of the policy of austerity and reforms, that is, those that further remove social and labour rights, bring about job insecurity, privatisation everywhere, poverty and unemployment of young people, that is, create the hotbed of the far right and fascism. but, ladies and gentlemen, the people will demand solutions outside the neoliberal conditions of the european union, outside the designs of the euro, demanding a future of cooperation between sovereign, equal states in a european union of democracy, solidarity and peace.
we believe in a europe of nations and countries, a europe of peoples and not of banks, a europe which respects national identity and is based on subsidiarity. in this context, the right of veto of the member states is a guarantee for the protection of national interests. at the eurozone level, the stability pact that allows germany to run huge trade surpluses must be abolished. the european central bank must be transformed into the lender of last resort for the member states and, at the same time, there must be a decentralized system of central banks in order to restore the monetary sovereignty of the national states, which will be able to exercise this sovereignty on the basis of their shares in the ecb's share capital. i believe that there should be a special relationship for greece, special arrangements, permanent and transitional, so that greece can breathe, special arrangements in the fields of energy, state aid, shipbuilding, tourism, transport, agriculture and livestock.
madam president, president juncker, who belongs to the european people's party, spoke as a european democrat about the future. yesterday mr orbán, who is also a member of the european people's party, spoke to us about a europe that is going backwards. we'll take the first one. i thank president juncker for the positive things he said about my country, greece. i hope that everyone in athens will hear them - and the opposition parties who are engaged in a miserable destructiveness. i believe that we must do everything possible to build the broadest possible alliance of pro-european progressive forces, to avoid the risks of backsliding expressed by far-right, anti-european, anti-democratic populism.
madam president, in his speech mr juncker tried to gloss over what is really happening in europe today. he spoke, for example, of a united europe. we believe and we fight for a europe of peoples and nations working together. but how can such a union be possible when the aim is to reduce national sovereignty? when, instead of compromise and compromise, a state is persecuted because it wants to defend the interests of its people? how can there be a united europe when the principle of unanimity is being abolished and a multi-speed europe is being created? is immigration policy a success when some countries close their borders and greece has been turned into a vast concentration camp for unhappy illegal immigrants? is there any success in social policy when there is unemployment and the impoverishment of the people? finally, is there any prospect for europe when it wants to become a global policeman to go after terrorists, so to speak, everywhere?
madam president, i would first of all like to thank president juncker for the kind words and the praise he has had to say about the sacrifices made by the greeks to remain in the euro. but the real recognition of the efforts of all citizens comes when europe takes steps to improve everyday life. in the 250 days until the european elections, we need to vote on the 2020-2027 budget because the delay will leave cohesion and competitive programmes like erasmus and horizon europe without funding. we need to move towards a single asylum system. the 10 000 additional border guards we are announcing today will of course strengthen the protection of europe's borders. but we need updated and unified procedures for immigration. finally, we need to make use of the european union's flagship policies, such as defence and tackling climate change. we need immediate results that can directly affect the citizens.
madam president, mr juncker's speech and slogan 'the european union, a world leader' is intended to shield the interests of european monopolies against the other powerful capitalist centres, such as the united states, china and russia, in the context of competition for control of markets and energy resources, with a special emphasis on africa. the need to expand the interests of the european union also leads to further militarization, whatever mr juncker says, and to the promotion of multilateral transnational cooperation, even through special majority voting. it's not just that! the european union and its governments are characterized by anti-union surveillance mechanisms, anti-union duress measures for redundant, recycled workers, immigrant lock-in and the infiltration of eu funds into their homelands for even greater profits. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that is the main driving force behind the european union. on the same bank are the nationalist forces. the european union was not, is not and will never be a people's europe. the peoples in their struggle to claim their own power and struggle for liberation!
madam president, the syriza-anel government in greece has maintained the anti-working law on new pension cuts since the beginning of 2019 and is playing workers with the bargains it is making with the troika, when it has agreed to cut pension spending by up to 7.8 billion for the next three years. the prime minister's recent macabre insinuation about pensioners reflects the european union's reactionary strategy to shorten the time from retirement to death that is already being implemented with increases in the retirement age by all capitalist governments, regardless of color, or even staying in work after retirement, even for the seriously ill. the european union, syriza and new democracy share a strategy of active ageing, of working until old age, with a pinochet-style three-pillar system of pensions and poorhouse benefits, pushing pensioners into the clutches of private insurance companies. workers, pensioners and young people to organise their struggle to recover the huge losses and to abolish all the anti-insurance, anti-working laws and plans!
madam president, i would ask those who say that the future of insurance is private pensions to remember the past. what happened ten years ago? do you remember how the crisis started? those were the days in september 2008. then the investment bank lehman brothers collapsed, dragging into the seabed the savings of policyholders who thought that private pensions could guarantee security for their old age. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. we see this in greece too, when the new democracy, represented by the european people's party, proposes private pensions in the pinochet style. but here in the european parliament? why, ladies and gentlemen of the european people's party and the liberal group, are you in such a hurry to take the report straight to a tripartite debate and not even to discuss it in the european parliament? why are black rock and the other big investment banks rushing to sell private pensions again? we, colleagues, will allow this?
madam president, the future of pensions under the present circumstances is not simply bleak. it's not real. pensions are converted into benefits and pensioners are relegated to beggars. what universality are we talking about when pensions in greece are being cut with only a tv report and with radio silence from the government? when those who have ruled us incompetently refuse to admit their mistakes? when in a moment they appropriate and dispose of decades of labor? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the needs of the citizens. when the prime minister of greece, who just yesterday in this very room was applauded for his economic choices, immorally wishes that 70-year-olds do not live long on the altar of so-called economic success? the principles of a legal and sustainable system are simple but basic: compulsory insurance, a guaranteed minimum pension of a decent standard, proportionality and stability of contributions, return on benefits, support for the continuity of contributions with redistributive conditions, long-term structured saving and the creation of reserves.
madam president, as we discuss the serious issue of pensions, millions of pensioners in greece are living with the anxiety of whether and if pensions will be cut from 1 january 2019. because these are the orders of the troika, these are the agreements signed by mr tsipras with the creditors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not disrupted, and that the social security system is not disrupted. in addition, 611 000 pensioners receive a gross monthly income of eur 372. you realize that on these terms and conditions no one can live. and, of course, widow's pensions are being dismantled. 80,000 people are in trouble because they're being drained. but there is an answer. we had proposed a recapitalisation of the insurance system, a system which was dismantled by the troika with the psi bond exchange programme, which had caused 12 billion in damage to the insurance system. the troika's policies have driven unemployment to 29%, so the whole social security system has been dismantled. i suggested yesterday to mr tsipras that he should keep the 24 billion euros left over from the third loan package and recapitalise the pension funds with 12 billion euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not affected. there is no need to cut pensions! this was imposed by the imf. the evidence shows that there should be no reduction in pensions, both because of the procedures and because of the social sensitivity itself that must be there. so there is a solution: recapitalization of the social security system! we suggested it. the troika is deaf and the tsipras government is deaf!
madam president, the needs of the present time have forced many people to disclose their personal data to various bodies. this reality imperatively requires the protection of personal data not only against inappropriate communication without the consent of the data subject, but also in respect of their processing. the same principle applies to the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union, since it is an inalienable right of every individual to have his private and family life, as well as his communications and residence respected. in this sense, the new rules on the protection of personal data and on their processing by the institutions and bodies of the european union are moving in the right direction. the only disagreement is the possibility still available to the european public prosecutor's office and the european police office, europol, to process personal data in order to prevent, detect and prosecute a crime. this must end because there is a risk that personal data may be used by some governments to persecute political opponents.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in practice, it is almost impossible to ensure the protection of personal data and at the same time the free movement of such data between union bodies. unfortunately, we have witnessed many cases where, despite the various safeguards that have been put in place from time to time, the personal data of citizens have ended up on the internet, easily accessible to anyone. the aim must be to find the right balance between anonymity and the security of european citizens. i do not think there is any point in exchanging the data of citizens who are not employed by the authorities or have no convictions against them. on the other hand, i believe that it is imperative that information on illegal immigrants, let alone on terror suspects, be made available to all the security services in the member states. finally, i am absolutely opposed to the circulation of personal data of european citizens for any reason other than the prevention of criminal acts and criminal offences in general.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. we must put a great deal of emphasis on strengthening individual rights and of course citizens must not accept any processing of their own data. the fact that this will be extended to the community institutions is indeed very serious. the exemptions granted must also be such as to genuinely support the public interest. i would like to say, however, that the application of the general data protection regulation is now extended to political communication. i would like to draw your attention, commissioner, because members of parliament and meps must communicate with the people; they must communicate with their electors. the way in which this regulation is interpreted has in fact restricted the right of political communication, because political communication is not a commodity. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, the report by mrs cornelia ernst on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their data by the institutions of the union comes at a time when we are also discussing the need to improve the relevant framework for the internet. at eu level we have already established rules on the respect of personal data, but in practice the issue remains unknown and potentially dangerous for many citizens. the protection of personal data against their processing is a fundamental human right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but much remains to be done to ensure the full implementation of these provisions. we must equip citizens with new possibilities, such as withdrawing consent to the processing of their data at any time. the citizen must know who, where and for what purpose his data is being processed. the ernst report is moving in that direction and i therefore think we should vote in favour of it.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 13 september 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report of mr mark demesmaeker, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european strategy on plastics in a circular economy (2018/2035 (ini)) (a8-0262/2018), - the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the options on the interface between chemicals, products and waste legislation tabled by mr lukas mandl, mr christel schemaldemose, mr mark demesmaeker, ms anne dahi jäätteenmäki, mr lynn boylan, mr pier škrni pedic, ms joëlle määttini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european strategy on plastics in a circular economy (2018/2035 (ini)) (a8-0262/2018), - the oral question to the council on the options on the interface between chemicals, products and waste legislation tabled by mr lukas mandl, mr christel schemaldemose, mr mark demesmaeker, ms anne dahi dahi jäätteenmäki, mr lynn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the interface between chemicals, products and food safety (2018/20360000-008-0083/2018) (b7-oj.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr demesmaeker, on his report. i think it's covered all the major issues because actually plastics are very dangerous to the environment. the examples of environmental destruction, particularly that the oceans have been filled with plastic, are well known. this is of particular interest to greece, because we have clean seas and we want to keep our seas clean. but you realise that when other countries do not have this protection and there is a reckless use of plastics, problems are created for greece too. we are therefore the ones who insist that measures must be taken and of course this can be done, mainly, by relying on the circular economy, because only through the circular economy can there be recycling, can there be prevention and, of course, can there be protection procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. however, due to their low level of collection and recycling, they pollute the environment and cause health problems, especially when they enter the food chain; they also destroy marine ecosystems when they end up in seas and oceans. to tackle this problem, both the states and the european union should adopt effective laws to control the movement of single-use plastics and other plastic waste from ending up in the seas. they should also be raised to a higher level of collection and recycling so that they can be transformed from waste into important factors in the development of a country's economy.
mr president, microbial resistance is indeed a serious issue and leads to a great many deaths, precisely because of the use of antibiotics in animals. i would like to draw your attention, mr andriukaitis, to the fact that there is a serious problem with the west nile virus in greece today. 28 deaths have been recorded so far; we have 189 cases. there's a serious problem in 27 municipalities in attica. i repeat, this is west nile virus. you're a doctor and you know it. the point is that macedonia has recorded one third of the total cases. the questions i have for you are, firstly, whether the greek government has contacted the commission to deal with this serious problem of west nile virus in greece or not, and secondly, what measures do you, as the commission, in cooperation with the greek authorities, intend to take? this cannot continue. greece is the third country in number of cases; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like an answer because this is a matter of concern to the entire greek population at the moment and the west nile virus is not treated with antibiotics! please, i'd like your opinion. all greek citizens are interested in what you have to say.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mizzi, for her report, and i think that the debate has highlighted the efforts of the european parliament to ensure that the european union is at the service of the people; that it is at the service of civil society; that it can contribute to information and information, because that is the key element. through this single platform, citizens and businesses will be sure to have the right information, whether it is about scholarships for our young people, whether it is about finding work in other regions, whether it is about taxation in specific countries, because this is a key criterion for various businesses to enhance their extroversion. but the recognition of diplomas can also be served by this access to the single platform which i think we all support with our interventions.
mr president, it is indeed a very interesting debate on how we can have sustainable transport, how we can avoid pollution of the environment, how we can have automated mobility systems. this is all very interesting. i am thinking of the inhabitants of the aegean islands, mrs bulc, who, especially in winter, cannot move from one island to another or come from the aegean islands to athens. the big problem is today. these people want to have a transport equivalent, they want to be able to move. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. i think you should look at this, how to finance the transport equivalent so that the businesses and the citizens of the aegean islands who have been really isolated can really be relieved.
mr president, dual quality products in the single market are really a gangrene because there is a discriminatory treatment of consumers, particularly in eastern europe, and this must stop. mr president, in a few moments the prime minister of skopje, zoran zaev, will address the european parliament. it is a feast to support the debased prespes agreement signed by zaev with the tsipras-kamenos government. i denounce zaev's presence in the european parliament. it is not my presence that will legitimize the backlash against zaev and the despicable prespa agreement. no to the desecration of our name of macedonia and our history! macedonia is one and greek! i'm resigning in protest.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report she has presented to us, but above all on her many years of dedication to highlighting and trying to solve a serious problem which has many dimensions and which has a major impact on the lives of european citizens. i think it is unacceptable for manufacturers, producers and companies to mislead consumers by presenting products of a double quality without enabling them to distinguish their composition and characteristics. to avoid being misinformed, every european citizen has the right to be able to distinguish the composition, quality and characteristics of a product, especially when it is a foodstuff, whether he buys it in his own country or in another country he visits. to do this, the european union must strictly enforce existing legislation, protect its citizens and, if necessary, revise that legislation.
madam president, any intervention in the health sector must aim at improving the availability, quality and price of treatments and options for citizens. this report promotes mandatory joint assessments and the consolidation of procedures with the primary, if not exclusive, aim of sterile deepening of the single market and facilitating industries. health is being transformed into a tool for further european integration rather than a means of adding value for patients by improving access or removing distortions. medicines and health technologies are not consumer goods. they must be within the regulatory framework of the relevant regulatory authorities and exist for medical needs, aiming to protect human life. but we need assurances that the added therapeutic value is a real priority over the interests of industry or micro-political exploitation, because otherwise we are led to statements, like those of the left-wing greek minister mr tsakalotos for the rescue of the social security system, that 'these people will be excluded from the system in a natural way'. soon they will be no more, that is, they will be dead.
mr president, it should be noted at the outset that the european union has only the responsibility of supporting, coordinating and complementing the action of the member states in the field of health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health system is not affected by the new drugs. and this applies to the whole of the european union. this means that medicine and health technologies must be treated as public goods and not as commodities, not as consumer goods. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. yet health costs remain enormous: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. and in this area we have seen a lot of drug companies that overcharge, making cancer drugs unaffordable. the european union must therefore coordinate its efforts to achieve a much more positive result.
mr president, health is a precious commodity for every human being and every human being has the right to access all matters relating to health. it is therefore the responsibility of each state to ensure that the conditions are in place to protect the health of its citizens and to deal with their problems when they arise. the state must therefore play an active role, monitor technological developments in the health sector and intervene when and where necessary. it must formulate a human-centred health policy and, above all, intervene in the field of medicines. the drug is a commodity, not a consumer item. it must not be treated with the philosophy of commerce, because in this way the pharmaceutical multinationals are uncontrolled, they increase enormously the quantities of medicines necessary for human health, especially those of cancer patients, and the state must intervene in order to protect its citizens from these arbitrariness.
mr president, the last few decades have seen real leaps forward in the field of medicine in general and health technologies in particular. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european union is a great example of this, and it is a great example of the european union's ability to take action. in greece, for example, as a direct result of institutional austerity policies, access to high-quality health services has been dramatically reduced. most medicines have been replaced by suspect generics, which do not meet all the high standards that apply in europe. moreover, even with these drugs, the cost to the individual patient is often prohibitive with disastrous results, as treatment is not followed up because of inability to pay. it is easy to conclude that, despite the undoubted progress made and still being made in health technologies, access to them is far from universal, creating dangerous inequalities between european citizens. i therefore call for the immediate exemption of the health sector from austerity policies, since the health and life of every person must be above budgetary cost.
the european parliament will condemn the persecution of homosexuals in chechnya, adding to this the necessary dose of anti-russian propaganda. we are clearly against the persecution and imprisonment of people because of their sexual orientation. of course, although the real cause of these persecutions is graphically stated, you deliberately avoid touching the source of the problem. contrary to what you may want to believe, the problem is not russia, but the fact that in these areas the vast majority of the inhabitants are muslims, with a tradition of radicalizing them and armed attempts to establish an islamic emirate in the caucasus. so a large number of muslims consider homosexuality to be a most serious sin, and, besides the possible future loss of paradise, sinners face the far more immediate danger of losing their lives or at least incarceration. relatively recent are the images of the islamic caliphate throwing gays from the rooftops of buildings. unfortunately, with your policy of islamizing europe, this sick mentality is being allowed to develop within the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, insurance companies play an important role in the real economy. consider that the largest insurance companies this year posted revenues of $27.6 trillion and profits of $1.5 trillion. it is understood that they play an important role and of course, if something goes wrong, this creates risks to financial stability in europe and to long-term investment in the economy itself. international financial reporting standard (ifrs) 17, as we have seen, will be implemented in two and a half years, from january 1, 2021. but there is a lot of thinking and criticism about whether the insurance market itself is really ready, whether the insurance companies themselves can really deal with the problems that exist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and insurance companies, as they operate and work, they see that there needs to be significant training of executives, there needs to be change, there needs to be investment, there needs to be action. it seems that 67% of large insurance companies are ready, but only 10% of small insurance companies are ready. the whole debate on whether there should be an extension and an adjustment is therefore, i think, being conducted properly and properly here in our european parliament.
mr president, the reform of accounting standards in insurance companies is mainly about the companies themselves, but above all about investors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests. i have no doubt that there are very concrete benefits to be gained from this reform, but at the same time i believe that the adoption of these standards by the member states should be on a voluntary basis, given that this is a matter of national sovereignty and the possibility that the states should have to define their own rules in their internal market. if and when it is judged that these standards will indeed contribute to the better functioning of the markets, but at the same time to the protection of insured persons and investors, then they can adopt them, thus attracting foreign investment. but if standards are made compulsory, without taking account of the specificities of each country, this will create more problems than it hopes to solve.
author. – mr president, i would like to thank commission vice—president ansip very much. i am happy to present the resolution on distributed ledger technologies and blockchain, the first one on this promising technology. this resolution has already achieved important political goals. it has become a reference point for other reports related to blockchain technology in this house and it has provided guidelines to the commission, along with policy directions, preparing the ground for further action. it also provides a solid framework for legal certainty, not only in europe but also beyond, and of course it has received publicity worldwide. blockchain is a groundbreaking technology that promises to improve efficiency, reduce costs and friction, and increase transparency and trust in a wide range of sectors, such as supply chains, financial services, energy, transportation, health care, education, and even copyright and the creative industries, by giving citizens back control of their data. blockchain also has strong potential to improve the quality of public services, and, as an instrument or indeed a platform, to increase efficiency between the state and the citizen in relation to smart contracts, public documents, avoiding duplication, certificates, licences, land registries and even voting. blockchain-based applications could also potentially help to fight fraud and tax evasion. i am pleased, too, to announce that blockchain has united this house, as all the parties in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) voted in favour of the resolution under the principle of being technology neutral and innovation friendly in europe. one of the core messages of our text was to signify that the european union aspires to become the global leader in the fourth industrial revolution. here i must underscore the great contribution and work of commissioner gabriel in this direction, and thank her for supporting the funding of pilot schemes in a broad eu blockchain alliance of member states. i would also like to thank vice—president ansip, since he is one of the people who have led by example in his country, making estonia one of the most advanced countries in europe in the digital era. on behalf of the itre committee, allow me to deliver the following oral question to you vice—president. distributed ledger technologies (dlts) and blockchains have not only shown great potential in improving existing value chains, but also create new value chains that reduce intermediation costs and transactional friction, and that remedy trust issues, monitoring problems and transparency concerns. the applications of blockchain are numerous and encompass a wide range of sectors. energy grids, health care, the financial sector, supply chains, transport, education, the creative industries and the public sector are just some of the possible fields. in terms merely of transaction fees, we have an oecd study to the effect that eur 130 billion in hidden fees is the cost in europe alone per year. in order fully to grasp the potential of dlts in the spirit of technological and business—model neutrality, we need a better understanding of their key underlying features, such as decentralised distributed databases, disintermediation, the immutability of data, ad permission and permission—less applications, as well as the technological possibilities they offer in areas such as smart contracts and funding for smes through initial coin offerings (icos). however, in addition to their potential, dlts also raise concerns about data protection and in relation to the general data protection regulation. cybersecurity, interoperability, new sources of fraud and environmental issues are among these concerns. how is the commission planning to provide the environment of legal certainty that is needed to boost dlts and blockchains in europe; and what initiatives would the commissioner undertake to create a competitive blockchain ecosystem in the eu? let me just say that technology is neutral. how we use it depends on us. we are innovation friendly and i think this is demonstrated by this resolution and the great support it has received thus far.
madam president, the question raised by my colleague, mrs kylie, on distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, i think highlights the key problems we are facing during the fourth industrial revolution. this is a process that is continuously progressing, as a digitized european industrial area now exists. it is certain that the applications of blockchain cover, as mentioned, a great many sectors: energy networks, health care, the financial sector, supply chains, transport, education. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that these issues should concern us and that there should be a strong emphasis on cyber security, on data protection but also, of course, on the exploitation of this whole system, as the commissioner said, at the level of public services. at the same time, we have to be aware of negative phenomena, such as the creation of cartels and the payment of fees in cryptocurrencies, such as bitcoin.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. certainly, specific factors must be taken into account which will help to define a functional definition of what a 'mountain' means. because we know that there are areas where the great constraint of land use due to slope, soil and altitude has to be taken into account. productivity needs to be considered. the difficult weather conditions need to be taken into account. at the same time, there must be a solution to the issue of compensatory compensation given to greece, because since 2016 it has decreased by 50%. the procedure applied by the greek government to delimit areas with natural constraints leads to a limitation of compensatory compensation, which is contrary to what the european union wants. we must also take into account the cost of production, the high price of agricultural oil in greece, the lack of agricultural credits, the lack of training and education, and above all the problem of the hellenisation of agricultural products and livestock products, an issue on which both the european union and, of course, the greek government must take action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the mountain regions, to help our farmers and to help our livestock breeders.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the pensioners lost 40% of their pensions. already 1,157,000 pensioners, or a quarter of them, are living on pensions below 500 euros gross, while the looting of 80,000 widow's pensions continues. and as if that wasn't enough, the lenders are demanding a new pension cut from january 1, 2019. the syriza-anel government, instead of repealing the law on the new pension cuts, continues to mock the pensioners. so today he presented to parliament a draft state budget with two scenarios: with cuts and without pension cuts. and as a new pontius pilate, the government is referring the question of whether or not to reduce pensions to the eurogroup of 3 december. greek pensioners send a message to the government: hands off your pensions! that's enough! the pensioners demand dignity, they demand that their work be supported!
madam president, unfortunately, illegal immigration and smuggling networks have been rampant over the last four years, while the union continues to use failed tools and apply wrong policies. the external borders are perforated, national sovereignty is limited, there is no disincentive against illegal immigration, and, more recently, ways are being devised to legalize and further widen the channels of immigration. it is now officially recorded that 1 in 13 is a national of a non-european third country. of course, the reality is even more ominous. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. they have entered our countries illegally and remain on our territory without settling their status. the need to restore legality and a sense of security among citizens is being addressed by preventing the entry of illegal immigrants and by deporting those who have entered without legal documents and legal residence. the demands are simple: not on illegal immigration. not in creating parallel societies. not to the perversion of the concept of citizenship. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, the informal summit in salzburg leaves little room for a substantial change in the european union's policy on the serious issue of migration. the same arguments are being repeated: that the external borders must be protected, which is right; that people must not die, which is also right; but the tactics are wrong and therefore the problem cannot be solved. the protection of the external borders can only be effectively achieved if the armed forces and security services of the member states take responsibility for it. it is not done by failed bureaucratic agencies like the european border and coast guard agency, frontex, and corrupt ngos. it is also not being achieved when the european union allows turkey to send waves of illegal immigrants and has turned greece into a vast camp of unhappy souls. it is also not achieved when, as i said before, we let failed organizations do as they do.
madam president, mr timmermans, i think it is time to abolish dublin iii and replace it with a new system of asylum examination which will abolish the concept of the first country of entry altogether. a system which preserves the sovereignty of the member states in the field of asylum. mr timmermans, the dublin system has failed, as it has turned greece and italy into repositories of souls. the aegean islands, and lesvos in particular, are being overrun by constantly increasing migratory flows, overrun by thousands of third country nationals who, although they wish to go to the hard core countries, are nevertheless trapped in greece, in greece impoverished by the memoranda. frontex, instead of protecting european borders, has become a tour operator. the greek armed forces should be entrusted with the protection of greece's borders and the government should apply article 72 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union for internal security reasons and suspend the schengen agreement, dublin iii and the provisions on asylum and migration.
madam president, according to the information we have all received, three issues will dominate the discussions at the forthcoming summit: the ongoing negotiations on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, immigration and security. the common feature of all three issues is that the union's leaders are unable to find a solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the european union, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. migration has traditionally remained a huge issue despite the long-running efforts to solve it. i assure you that as long as you approach the issue in the light of your ideological complexes and refuse to face reality, the problem will not be solved. finally, as regards security, let us thank god that the caliphate is defeated in syria and no longer has the means to organize large-scale attacks, because the measures you took had zero effect.
mr president, the issue of the infringement of fundamental rights, and in particular labour rights, by multinationals has been discussed several times in this chamber. we know that multinationals, in the logic of outsourcing, in order to reduce labour costs and, above all, to make a profit, transfer their capital to developing countries, where they do not comply with either labour legislation or legislation on the safety and health of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think it is time that the european union itself stopped pretending to be involved in this matter, because these cheap products are being imported from the developing world and the multinationals are accumulating surpluses, while not even giving the workers a proper wage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, no one can deny that large companies operating in third countries systematically violate the human rights of workers. but the solution will not be found either by creating new agencies that absorb additional funds or by providing dubious legal aid, since the judicial system in the countries where these violations occur is often perhaps more corrupt than the companies it is called upon to prosecute. only two actions can answer this vital problem: in the long term, we must seek to normalise the functioning of these states, since - to put it bluntly - most of them are run by corrupt politicians who have no regard for their citizens, and who use other means to secure their votes, while some of them at least have the appearance of a democracy and are not simply and clearly dictatorships. in the short term, however, i propose banning companies that violate human rights from operating within the union and banning other companies from doing business with them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the culprits for these violations are mostly transnational and multinational corporations that take advantage of their connections with corrupt politicians, as well as the lax legal framework in the countries in which they operate. for this reason, we are witnessing the transfer of production, especially clothing, by companies to countries with a low labour force, so that they can reduce labour costs and make more money. these companies often employ young children and generally force workers to work long hours and under poor conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the single market, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step.
mr president, the devilishly good, according to mr tsipras, american president trump, by cutting off funding for the aid programme to the palestinians, is barbarously seeking to force them to accept what has been achieved in the context of advanced imperialist arrangements in the middle east and cyprus, by moving the american embassy to jerusalem, by recognising jerusalem as the capital of israel, by legalising the occupation, the settlements, the murderous israeli policy of apartheid. the european union and its governments are again hypocritically whispering words. they are not relieved of their enormous responsibilities. no sanctioned by. they continue to develop relations with israel, turn their backs on it, refuse to recognize the palestinian state despite the decisions of their parliaments, recognize israel as the sentry of imperialism in the burning middle east. the classic example is the syriza-anel government, which is forging economic and military relations with israel, with joint energy and military plans against the peoples of the region, with military bases granted to the nato murderers. their plans stumble on the unyielding will of the palestinians, as reflected in the face of ahed tamimi, the seventeen-year-old who was imprisoned for eight months for protecting the lives of her family when she attended the kne, the youth festival of the communist party of greece in athens. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with the palestinian people, including the palestinian authority, the palestinian national authority and the palestinian authority of the west bank and gaza strip.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for 70 years unrwa has been breathing life into the palestinian refugees. ten days ago i visited palestine and saw schools, hospitals and social services closing one after another, refugee structures understaffed, the tragic consequences of reduced humanitarian aid. these are the direct results of the criminal decision of the united states, which supports the crimes of israel and the displacement of millions of palestinians, depriving them of even the slightest assistance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will be taken in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the protection of workers from asbestos. the european union, commissioner, has a historic duty to fill the economic vacuum created by the withdrawal of the united states. political will is needed, not just donor campaigns.
mr president, the united nations relief and works agency for palestine in the near east has been doing a great job for the last 70 years. it is active in lebanon, syria, the west bank, the gaza strip and has certainly provided important services. it supports vulnerable people, it supports education, education and it is certain that the reduction of its funding and the problems in its operation will affect, as it was heard, at least 500,000 students and 400,000 patients. this does not mean that there should be no control, transparency and accountability in the operation of unrwa, but these cannot be the reason for stopping its operation. i believe that the european union is right to support the work of unrwa. and it would be good for the arab countries, which are funding football teams in the english and french leagues with billions of euros, to put their hands in their pockets and support unrwa.
mr president, it is an inalienable right of states to choose freely, on the basis of their own internal democratic procedures, how they spend their resources and how they shape their external relations. and these final decisions deserve respect and acceptance on all sides. by going beyond its mandate and acting as a self-critical international arbiter, the union selectively promotes human rights, democracy and the rule of law as a lever of pressure, serving the geostrategic interests of particular countries, without foresight or long-term planning. its actions, by disregarding the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs and the sovereign decisions of independent third states, once again demonstrate its lack of understanding and expose its absence from international geostrategic balances. on the contrary, it continues to benefit from developments, further neglecting the main reason for its existence which is the steady improvement of the living conditions of its citizens. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the european union is not a member of the united nations.
mr president, the curse of yemen - if i may use that expression - is due to the fact that this country has enormous strategic importance and position. it is located at the southern tip of the arabian peninsula, it controls the bab-el-mandeb strait, which is a channel through which trade is conducted, but also oil is transported from the red sea through the gulf of aden to europe and asia. that's why it's only natural that many countries want to control this area. after 2009, saudi arabia re-emerged in 2015 as the head of an arab coalition to support sunni president hadi against the houthi shia rebels, who are supported covertly and with arms shipments from iran. this attempt to dominate the region gives the belligerents the opportunity to fight. the houthis have now balanced the situation so they're fighting each other and they're fighting with proxies. but this situation affects the only losers who are civilians: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, yemen is facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world today, as un secretary-general antónio guterres has said, adding that the situation in yemen is catastrophic. unfortunately, member states of the european union continue to approve arms transfers to saudi arabia, ignoring the wish of the council and the european commission to impose an embargo on the sale of arms by european union countries against saudi arabia. vulnerable groups, women and children are particularly affected by the ongoing hostilities and humanitarian crisis, and the number of civilian casualties continues to rise. according to the un, 8.4 million people are on the brink of starvation in yemen, whose population depends mostly on food that is barely imported. the needs have increased further, and 13 million people are now starving. unless the warring parties return to the negotiating table to end the war in this poorest country on the arabian peninsula, where saudi-backed government forces are fighting the iranian-backed houthi rebels, no amount of money from the un and the european union will improve the situation.
mr. president, in yemen, saudi arabia and iran are clearing their differences. but they are clearing them at the expense of a people, in a region where there are actually over 23 million people in a humanitarian crisis. we have thousands of innocent people who have been killed. and that's the first thing we have to consider. the second is that there is a huge export of arms from the european union member states' defence industries to saudi arabia. so if we want to stop this settling of accounts between iran and saudi arabia in yemen, we must demand that the sale of arms to anyone involved in this war be stopped and, above all, that the export of arms to saudi arabia by the member states of the european union be stopped. that's it. that must be our decision.
mr president, i think we all agree that we need to reduce emissions as quickly as possible. we must be very careful, however, lest trying to fix a problem which we ourselves have created, end up in an even worse situation. i see there's a lot of support for electric cars. have we really considered what it would mean to actually have all the cars on the road today, and especially the trucks, replaced by electric by 2050? have we calculated the enormous amounts of electricity that would be required if this change were to occur? how will these amounts of electricity be generated? i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by mr von wogau. many countries today are facing energy shortages. so it is reasonable to assume that the situation will get even worse in the future. will the emissions from cars eventually be replaced by the emissions from the factories that produce electricity? in conclusion, we clearly need to work even more towards reducing emissions. but this should be done after careful and objective studies, so as to minimise the risks that may arise. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
mr president, i think that the debate which has been going on for too long has highlighted the main problems we are observing. there are the ambitious targets, the 2030 climate targets, with commitments in action, with efforts to reduce emissions. there is of course an opportunity to promote the green economy, to have environmental protection and investment at the same time. the transport sector, as has been said, is responsible for at least 20% of carbon dioxide emissions. serious measures must be taken. the solution is electric cars, although there is still a lot of investment to be made, particularly in batteries. this does not mean that all problems will be solved. on the other hand, account must also be taken of the difficulties facing european industry and the fact that it is not possible to replace all lorries. there will be a big cost to smallholders too.
mr president, the construction of new passenger and light commercial vehicles with high-spec engines, in order to limit carbon dioxide emissions and protect the environment, is achievable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the consequences of the crisis. an intermediate solution would be to produce high-quality fuels that would limit air pollutants. the dream of many, the electric vehicle, is currently subject to many constraints, e.g. the availability of electricity, batteries, charging points and so on. we must concentrate on ensuring that production costs are not passed on to the consumer, that jobs are not lost and that european industries are not bought by chinese ones.
mr president, the rationalization of the vat system will really help to combat the carousel fraud, which has reached up to 147 billion euros in the european union. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on the other hand, competition from third countries must be tackled. and i am referring to the aegean islands, which face competition from turkey, which has a 5% vat rate. but the troika has imposed a 24% vat on the aegean islands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the measure to be taken is to impose a low vat rate on the aegean islands, as was the case in the past.
mr president, tax fraud in the vat sector is literally a gangrene. we lose about 150 billion euros a year from tax fraud and vat non-payment. the measures proposed by the european parliament, which converge with the commission's measures, lead to harmonisation, simplification, more european cooperation, increased transparency, a european information exchange system and can, if implemented, generate revenues of eur 45 billion per year and reduce costs for businesses by eur 1 billion per year. so we have to move on. and the reason we are not moving forward is that what the european parliament and the commission are converging on is something that the council refuses to promote because some member states are putting the brakes on that effort. that has to change.
mr president, it is a disgrace what is happening here today with certain colleagues. we are talking about the rise of neo-nazi violence in europe and they refer to communism and socialism. in fact, what you're doing is vindicating fascism. golden dawn, the neo-nazi party we have in greece, will be glad to hear you, will rub their hands to hear you. they have killed in my country; they have killed a singer, they have killed an immigrant, for no reason, in cold blood, and they are still attacking refugees on the islands, the day before against a syriza mp, the ruling party. these are the real fascists and you turn a blind eye to them and when you turn a blind eye to them you are actually complicit.
mr president, some in this room have taken the opportunity to discuss fascist violence to remind them of communism. but we will remind them that if the red flag had not been raised in the reichstag and if there had not been 20 million soviet dead in the second world war, they would not be here today, nor would they be talking. the planned murderous attacks of the nazi golden dawn in greece and corresponding assault battalions throughout europe document their nazi, and therefore criminal, character, with their vulgar anti-communism, hatred for workers and communists; they are a striking force of capital. five years after the murder of anti-fascist fyssa and their other crimes, the trial of golden dawn is still not completed and the fascists are free. they are being fed by the anti-communist ideology of the european union, they are being fed by its anti-people policy, they are exploiting the legitimate popular indignation, they are being encouraged by sections of the capital and the state apparatus. the only answer is to isolate them from the people, to fight to overthrow the system that feeds them.
in writing. jean paul sartre said that fascism is not defined by the number of its victims, but by the way it kills them. the surge in neo-fascist violence follows the general rise of far-right movements, attributed mainly to the economic and migration crisis. in the member states most affected by the economic crisis, unemployment, austerity, the collapse of the social contract and the marginalisation of a significant part of the population have made it susceptible to political discourse from the extremes. a divisive and populist speech with propaganda rhetoric, targeting the recipient's memory bypassing all rational process. in an environment of insecurity and uncertainty, extreme anti-europeans have succeeded in instilling a new kind of cynicism in politics, a veneer of xenophobia, intolerance and nationalism, by resorting to the toolbox of fascism, which has remained sealed for 70 years. the climate of hostility and the 'legitimisation' of violence followed as a consequence, leading to the rise of neo-fascist and racist violence even in countries that had not been particularly affected by the economic or refugee crisis. our response to every extremist voice and to the nationalist populists: a new common european vision, based entirely on the principles of solidarity and cooperation. the european sovereignty derives from national sovereignty and does not replace it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the possibility for citizens to express their political will by exercising their right to vote is part of the very fabric of democracy. the union itself is founded on the value of respect for democracy. for the council, increasing and improving citizens’ participation in the democratic life of the union is a priority and all european institutions and member states should join forces to achieve this objective. the presidency notes the concerns voiced by ms wikström, reflecting the concern of the authors of the petition regarding the consequences of the disenfranchisement of voting rights in national elections in some member states in relation to the exercise of the freedom of movement. however, the treaties do not confer any power to the council to act in this regard, as this is a matter of national sovereignty, which in many member states is regulated by the constitution. concerning the facilitation of the exercise of the right to vote, i want to emphasise that in july, the council adopted a revision of the 1976 electoral law act, encouraging the member states inter alia to take the measures necessary to allow citizens residing in third countries to vote in elections to the european parliament. this has been without any doubt an important move towards a more participative european election process. regarding the upcoming elections to the european parliament, the council supports the eu—wide information and awareness raising campaign on eu citizenship rights, including electoral rights to support turnout. in particular, last year the council adopted conclusions where it invited member states to enhance citizens’ participation in the eu democratic process, for example, by better informing them of their rights to vote in local and european elections and by removing barriers to their participation. in the discussion held last year in the council on the eu citizenship report 2017, the council asked the commission to promote best practices implemented in the member states to help citizens vote or stand in eu elections. the council also considered as a positive measure the developments by the commission of a multilingual standard form to facilitate the swift exchange of information between member states to its contact points about the rights of citizens to stand as a candidate when residing in another member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all let me thank the petitions committee for tabling this question. in my answer i will summarise what the commission has done up to now on this issue. already in the 2013 citizenship report, the commission underlined that full participation of union citizens in the democratic life of the union at all levels is the very essence of union citizenship. the right to vote is also clearly at the base of democracy. while most member states allow their citizens to vote in national elections and referenda in their home countries, a few, enumerated by madam wikström today, set considerable restrictions on this right when citizens move to another eu member state. since no eu country currently awards foreign nationals the right to vote in national elections and referenda, it means that some eu citizens cannot vote in such elections in any of the eu member states. the commission recognises that member states are solely competent to determine who can benefit from the right to vote in national elections. the eu treaties only guarantee eu citizens the right to vote in their state of residence in municipal and european elections. however, the founding premise of union citizenship is that it is additional to national citizenship and is meant to give additional rights. the fact that the exercise of the right to free movement may lead to losing the right of political participation is at odds with that principle. the commission has kept the situation under observation for a number of years and the commission therefore issued a recommendation in 2014, in which member states were asked that their nationals might apply to remain registered on the electoral roll and therefore retain their right to vote. in last year’s 2017 a report on eu citizenship the commission referred to this issue of disinfringement in national elections. it noted that 67% of respondents to the 2015 eurobarometer on eu citizenship felt it was unjustified that citizens should lose their right to vote in national elections in their country of origin. in april this year the commission included this issue in the discussion paper transmitted to member states ahead of an exchange between national election authorities organised following the commission recommendation of february 2018 on the efficient conduct of the european elections. let me assure you that the commission continues to monitor developments and initiate specific actions within its competence. the annual fundamental rights colloquium to be held on 26 and 27 november this year in brussels is dedicated to this issue and the title of this year’s colloquium is ‘democracy in the european union’. you are warmly welcomed to this event. the colloquium will include a session focused on the exercise of the right to vote when moving to another member state. i am convinced that if we work together we can induce improvements. with regard to the question on the complaints received by the commission, i would like to inform you that we analysed the ten complaints received in the past five years, but had to conclude that it was not possible to take further action, notably because of lack of competence.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission's initiative to bring the question of the deprivation of voting rights to the european union level is, i think, very important. and initiatives of this kind must be taken often as we move towards the european elections, because there must be full guarantee and exercise of voting rights during the european elections, which are coming up in a very short time. the right to vote and stand as a candidate should be fully guaranteed for those who have left their member states of origin. and this applies to the more than 400,000 greek citizens who left greece because of the crisis, who must be able to exercise their voting rights. and as long as it is in the european union, that, at least from the greek side, is possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to vote in the elections, and that is why i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not excluded from voting in elections, and that the european parliament is not prevented from voting in elections. the greek community, which is registered on the greek electoral rolls, should be able to exercise this right in the european elections, either by voting by letter or at the greek consulates and embassies in these countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also think that the debate should be extended to consider the media's presentation of the european elections and the views of the political parties.
the right to vote is fundamental, it is inalienable and, for that reason, it is self-evident to every citizen of a european union state. each state has the obligation to take the necessary measures to ensure that its electors are able to vote, whether they reside in their own country or in another country of the european union, or even in a country on another continent. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. the argument that someone living in a third country - i mean another country in the european union - is not well informed and therefore cannot make a correct assessment of what is happening in his own country is hypocritical, to say the least. greece guarantees the right of greek citizens living in european union countries to vote in european elections. but it does not recognise this right to the same family living outside the european union.
mr president, romania has accepted sovereignty as a prerequisite for accession to the union in exchange for a temporary and temporary inflow of cheap money, while the union has chosen to circumvent its basic principles on the altar of opportunistic political symbolism. despite warnings, the mistakes were mutual and their management is equally burdensome for both sides. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order to accelerate the disengagement, the union has no choice but to engage constructively and to implement this transitional assistance measure. the objective, with clear individual benchmarks, remains to address shortcomings in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption, through targeted and proportionate recommendations, the provision of expertise and targeted funding where deemed necessary or necessary. and one last thing: there's no need for hypocrisy here. you spoke of tear gas in romania and when greek prime minister tsipras came here, who did the same and worse in pissoderi and thessaloniki, with the police beating civilians, you said nothing.
mr president, mr ratas, i listened to your speech with great interest. i agree with you that we need more europe and a better europe. the european union is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union. it is the far-right anti-european nationalists and populists who want us to go back to borders, nationalism and war. but if we want to counter the danger of the rising far right that wants to return us to a nightmarish past, we must also fight inequalities, because inequalities feed populist far-right nationalism. that is why we need not just more europe, but a better europe, with stronger social cohesion policies, with more growth for the many rather than the few. you belong to a new generation of politicians and i believe that this new generation must take even stronger leadership initiatives for a better, more democratic, social europe.
welcome to the prime minister. i have three questions: the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, and we must be able to take action to combat terrorism. with the exception of greece and cyprus, which are facing direct and continuing threats to their territorial integrity from turkey. no other country in the european union is facing such a threat. at the same time, given that the european union is cooperating with nato, which is a defence organisation, why should the states make this economic sacrifice in a period of savage austerity? the european union's policy on immigration has failed miserably, with italy and greece being swamped by hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. greece in particular is destined to become a permanent camp for these people. do you agree that hotspots should be set up in countries that are pushing illegal immigrants into europe, and in particular turkey? finally, do you think that the abolition of the principle of unanimity in decision-making in the european union by creating a two- or three-speed europe promotes the unity of europe and serves the interests of small states such as your own?
mr president, mr prime minister, your country is one of the european union's darling children. it is considered a model country because you have finally aligned yourselves with the neoliberal demands of the european union and the aggressive plans of nato. mr president, the future of europe cannot be linked to development models which crush the welfare state, lead to unemployment, make labour relations more flexible and drive thousands of young people abroad, while aiming at the over-concentration of wealth. we cannot talk about model countries where a quarter of the population is below the poverty line and the minimum wage is less than 500 euros. we cannot speak of model countries which, in order to pass this policy, use both authoritarian policies and persecutions of anti-fascist activists. mr president, the continuation of this policy, the persistence in this policy, the support for these neo-liberal policies and the aggressive plans of nato will not have good results for the new generations, for democracy today and for the security of europe.
mr president, the aegean islands have always had a low value-added tax. and that's because they had to, because they were remote, have support for their economic development. at the same time they faced and are facing competition from turkey, where vat is 5%. unfortunately, the troika and the tsipras government have now allowed vat to be increased, in other words they have in fact imposed a 24% vat increase on the aegean islands, with the result that the whole region is being economically destroyed, and is currently suffering from massive flows of illegal immigrants and refugees. we are asking for the implementation of what our parliament voted for yesterday: a special regime for the aegean islands, as is the case for vat in the italian town of campione d'italia and in the italian waters of lake lugano. there they are allowed to have low vat because they have competition from switzerland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax on the use of the land is reduced.
mr president, the troika has impoverished the greek people, with the result that the greeks are unable to get serious medical care. we have huge prices for expensive drugs. the anti-cancer drugs are out of reach. patients can't buy these drugs. so you realize that greece has been left in this big party of the multinational pharmaceutical companies, with expensive drugs, with drugs which are particularly problematic. and now patients are forced to resort to these expensive drugs without having the money. so there must be intervention to stop the multinational pharmaceutical companies' party, to stop the overpricing and of course to stop the policy of violent fiscal adjustment, which has dismantled the health sector in greece.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes is a good one, but it is not enough to make the directive more effective. and while the aegean islands should have a low value-added tax rate, while in turkey vat is only 5%, as i said in my previous speeches, the government and the troika have imposed the highest vat rate of 24%, at a time when the aegean islands are being flooded by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants and tourism is collapsing. we are asking for a special vat regime for the aegean islands, as the european parliament has decided in the case of the italian municipality of campione d'italia and the italian waters of lake lugano, which are exempt and have low vat because switzerland, with which they are neighbours, has low vat. we are asking for a special vat regime for the aegean islands, so that the islands can stand up, so that they can survive. it is the appeal we make.
madam president, the guaranteed minimum income, the pride of the european union, of the far right, the liberals, the social democrats, the neo-left and the opportunists who unanimously support it, is a hoax and a trap. he's giving away the poverty. the less poor pay for it in taxes, but never the businesses that are tax-exempt, tax-exempt and subsidized. it is presented as a safety net for the issues of the now liberalized redundancies, the high unemployment, the extreme poverty, to prevent social explosions, mainly to compress down all wages, to abolish social benefits. it struck the collective agreements: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the workers must reject this trojan horse, the charity and the lesser evil that always turns out to be greater. with the nationwide strike in november in greece, to demand collective agreements, compensation for losses, increased benefits throughout the unemployment for all unemployed.
madam president, the minimum income is just a figure of speech, because it sounds good to the ears of those who do not have the means to survive or to support their families. but the reality is much different from your advertisements. the first objective should be to create and secure decent paid jobs for those who want to work, not to provide income for an indefinite period. but how can we avoid the risk of exploitation of state subsidies, especially by immigrants who have no reason to work, since the minimum guaranteed income easily provides them with a living? the logic of subsidies and flexible forms of employment with very low wages does not ensure a decent living for workers, with the exception of the handicapped, who are entitled to protection by right. protect work, create new full-time jobs and then there will be no need for a statutory minimum income. those who really want a single market should explain to us why there is no single basic wage throughout the european union. is it to serve the interests of germany, other great states and multinationals?
madam president, the many and varied activities of organised crime, together with the activities of terrorists, crossborder fraud and cyberattacks, require the judicial authorities of each country to cooperate with the european union's criminal justice agency, eurojust, in order to deal with all these cases. but eurojust must operate in a way that does not infringe the sovereignty of states. the commission's mission and the limits of its activities should therefore be defined. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the member states. finally, it goes without saying that the functioning of eurojust should not be subject to political considerations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. in the last decade, it has been observed that these organisations are not confined to one state but are expanding throughout europe, taking advantage of the free movement of persons. at the same time, there is growing cooperation between criminal groups in different countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the union. unfortunately, however, instead of presenting a comprehensive proposal for the creation of a body to coordinate effectively the prosecution authorities of the member states, the commission is concentrating on the creation of a so-called european public prosecutor's office with limited powers, with competencies that conflict with those of eurojust and at the same time with some judicial powers. moreover, in an unprecedented disregard for the principle of separation of powers, the commission is in effect seeking to control the appointment of eurojust's chairmen and vice-chairmen. the commission is probably more concerned with creating new posts and absorbing funds.
madam president, the current system is ineffective and impracticable. the seizure of criminal assets is trivial, the message that crime does not pay is non-existent and the return of the proceeds and profits of crime is an unattainable dream. it is beyond acceptable that the proceeds of illegal activities remain at the disposal of criminals. clarity and legal certainty are needed by simplifying and clarifying the overall framework for the mutual recognition of judicial decisions and by strengthening the role of competent national authorities. however, any action against criminals must ultimately be in the interests of all citizens, namely by respecting fundamental rights, strong procedural guarantees, provisions for compensation, effective and efficient access to appropriate legal remedies and acts of seizure and confiscation by prosecuting, public prosecuting or judicial authorities on sufficient evidence. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament.
mr president, if we want the people of europe to have confidence in their governments, and above all in the state systems in force in the member states, an excellent first step would be to crack down on organized crime, especially financial crime. the mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders between states is already very late. we must assure the public that anyone who gets rich by breaking the law will not only not enjoy his illicit gains, but they will be confiscated immediately and without discount. in particular, i would not like to focus on the confiscation of assets acquired through corruption of public officials and politicians. it is not uncommon to see politicians living luxuriously, disproportionately to their income. finally, i would like the measures to be taken to be much more immediate and effective, since i consider that the provision, justified to a certain extent in favour of the accused, is detrimental to the public interest when it goes beyond the measure.
mr president, an effective method of combating organised crime and terrorism is the seizure and confiscation of assets derived from illegal activities. the cooperation required by the countries to make this policy a success is facilitated by the mutual recognition of the warrants of seizure and forfeiture issued by a state. in this way, as i said before, we will not allow criminals to use the illegally acquired money. on the other hand, particular attention should be paid to how this principle should be implemented and applied. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. in order to do so, there must in any event have been a previous conviction and final decision relating to a criminal offence. otherwise, it is unacceptable to accept such a situation. moreover, the money seized must be returned in full to the victims.
mr president, the freezing of assets and confiscation of proceeds of crime are necessary to combat terrorism, the corruption of public officials and politicians, criminal organizations of all kinds, such as the mafia, and the slave traders who are literally flooding europe with illegal immigrants. it is therefore necessary to have the possibility of enforcing judgments in another member state, across borders, because most of them commit the crime in one state and the proceeds of the crime go to another state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected.
the free movement of non-personal data is a fact which contributes to the development of trade, because it allows information to move and be exploited rapidly. but this development must be seen and examined in the light of whether and to what extent it infringes the national sovereignty of a state. the proposed regulation does, of course, leave room for the non-flow of information which is not of a personal nature but which does infringe or endanger public security. what is also worrying is that, once artificial intelligence is developed, we do not know how it will be used. finally, we must bear in mind that our main competitor, china, does not allow such procedures to be carried out in its country.
mr president, it is a given that new technologies are evolving. we have cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence, and it's obvious that all of these things are contributing to economic growth. this is why we now speak of the 'fifth freedom', which complements the free movement of persons, services, capital and goods. what measures should be taken in this regard? but i think the same applies to the 'four freedoms', i.e. the possibility of state intervention for reasons of public order and public security, as this regulation has been shaped by the case law of the court of justice of the european union. nothing less, nothing more. i'm not going to let you do this. at the same time, it is obvious that the regulation on the protection of personal data must also apply. i do not agree with a code of conduct for self-monitoring by the companies themselves. i think the case law of the court of justice of the european union on the 'four freedoms' is sufficient to apply to the 'fifth freedom'.
mr president, we are discussing today money laundering in the banking sector, which has now become a regulation in the european union. and it is clear that measures must be taken to deal with this whole situation. where do these huge sums come from? first of all, criminal activities, but also tax evasion and tax avoidance. and here we have to be careful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax authorities are not forced to take any action to prevent the tax evasion of the community. we therefore believe that specific measures must be taken, because the banks - and we know which ones they are - are helping to launder this illicit money. so decisive action is needed. and of course member states which do not comply with the legislation must be referred to the court of justice of the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the matter we are discussing today has a special weight for my country, greece. large areas of the island and mainland have in recent years been hosting disproportionately large numbers of migrants and refugees. commissioner, you mentioned sam. there are also lesvos and chios and other areas of my country. the islands of the north-eastern aegean in particular are experiencing a humanitarian crisis due to overcrowding in immigration identification centres. the problem is growing out of control and local authorities are effectively left with their hands tied, fighting an unequal battle to manage the problem without the necessary means. the regions often sound the alarm and insist on being able to act autonomously in matters of reception and care of refugees, and to draw up corresponding policies at regional level. let us not forget that they are on the front line of providing aid to refugees. in many cases there are bureaucratic delays which make it dramatically difficult to manage the problem. the possibility of access by municipalities and regions to part of european funds must therefore be examined, always in the light of the member states' national migration planning. the change of legal framework by conferring institutional responsibilities at regional level could be combined in this context. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the european union's cooperation with the local authorities will also make a decisive contribution to the fight against the exploitation and smuggling of migrants, which has unfortunately flourished in recent years in the mediterranean. above all, in each member state, there is a need for effective participation of regional authorities in the central planning and implementation of migration policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
mr president, the european union, the governments, syriza and new democracy in greece have welcomed, promoted and supported the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement, which is turning the islands into places of double imprisonment for refugees and migrants. their policy is the dublin regulation, which lives and reigns, sending refugees to the gateways of the european union, such as greece. the growing strength of the european border guard, the repression, the fast-track deportations, is their work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. the european funds, and through the local administration, support precisely these reactionary agreements and euro-regulations, feed the ngos and the circuits. that is why they cannot give relief to the refugees or breathing space to the islanders. instead, they all experience the consequences of a miserable and dangerous situation, with winter ahead. the hotspots on the islands must be closed here and now, the asylum services must be transferred to mainland greece, and the refugees and migrants must be quickly transported to their countries of destination.
mr president, dublin iii has failed - and i think everyone admits this - and has turned greece and italy into 'soul depots'. there are now thousands of refugees trapped there, as well as thousands of illegal immigrants. what is to be done? the first is to continue the relocation programme which we have forgotten. the programme was implemented by only 30% of germany, 25% of france and very little else. and yet there was a promise to resettle 66,400 refugees from greece. at the moment there are 70,000 refugees and illegal immigrants in greece. it is obvious that the funds that were given - and were given enough - went to the ngos. and the ngos have been partying and not using these funds properly, and as a result, we have moria on its knees. i have been denouncing this, mr oettinger, for one and a half to two years and i have asked olaf to intervene to carry out an audit. i'm not gonna stop making these complaints. on the other hand, funds must be given to local and regional authorities so that they can support these people and host them in real conditions, in humane conditions.
mr president, from a humanitarian point of view, the situation in the eastern mediterranean is admittedly tragic. despite all the claims to the contrary, turkey sends dozens of illegal migrants to greece every day and frontex, instead of pushing them back, takes them to safety on the greek islands where it forces them to stay in miserable conditions. because the problem is not just economic, it is mainly a problem of space. there's no place for an illegal immigrant to stay there. and who gave the european union the right to turn greece into a permanent camp for unhappy people? if he really cares about these people, he should pressure turkey to stop pushing them into greece; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the war in syria is over. so the argument that we have refugees to avoid war and danger is not valid. these are illegal immigrants. it should also demand that the dublin iii regulation be reformed and repealed. finally, if all this is not done, the greek government must entrust the policing of the borders to the police, the coastguard and the armed forces. the european parliament must stop playing with the dignity of the greek people and tolerate being europe's slave and collector of its fruits.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the community's financial interests against fraud is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of the euro. that is, products are imported from third countries and are shown as greek. we have the hellenization of milk and milk products, and as a result we have a fall in the price of milk. we have cumulative imports from romania, from albania, from skopje. companies bring these products in and name them greek, and as a result we have a collapse in consumer prices. now we have an introduction of french potatoes called greek potatoes. tomato growers in tybaki, crete, are protesting because various imported tomatoes have now been shown as greek. it is a classic case of customs fraud which, in addition to the problems it creates, i think has also destroyed the agricultural economy itself. we must take this matter seriously. and you as a committee. i would like to ask you whether you have been informed by the greek authorities about this matter and whether olaf should finally be asked to investigate the situation with the mafia of the greenification of agricultural and livestock products.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the public procurement strategy package (2017/2278 (ini)) (a8-0229/2018).
i would like to inform my colleagues that, due to a technical problem, the list of speakers, as shown on the electronic panels, does not show the names in the correct order. technicians are trying to regulate the problem. i'm just letting you know so you don't get carried away.
i have some good news for the colleagues. the accuracy of the speaker order on the electronic panels has been restored.
mr president, public procurement, that is to say the private exploitation of public property, is a huge market, a field of trillions of dollars of profit and competition for monopolies at eu and global level, and of course a hotbed of scandals. this is why the union is concerned and has adopted an aggressive strategy of opening up contracts across borders between european and non-european countries, and of protecting the latter by adapting the award criteria to monopoly interests. in greece with all the governments, public contracts with private means a tsunami of fast-track privatizations of everything. roads, airports, ports, shipping, transportation, mineral wealth, energy, telecommunications, water, mountains, beaches, military production infrastructure, hydrocarbons, recycling, health, education - everything has been given up. the culmination of the handover of all the public property of the country for 99 years by the syriza-anel government to the creditors. natural wealth and wealth extracted from the taxes and the sweat of the people are themselves called upon to repay it to the coffers of the private sector through tolls, tariff increases, loans and eu subsidies that are charged. the only way out of misery and to satisfy its needs: all this wealth becomes the property of the people through central planning, workers' control and popular power.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is legitimate to find new methods of awarding public contracts and to optimise existing ones, always with a view to greater transparency, greater efficiency and less red tape, in the public interest. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the price of the contract. in any event, the sovereignty of the member states, which must have the final say in any public contract, should not be infringed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the main objective must be to combat such phenomena first and foremost. we cannot allow certain people to get rich at the expense of the people.
mr president, each state concludes contracts, for a fee, with various companies both domestic and foreign. these contracts play an important role in the development of the state's economy, as they are usually awarded in sectors of great strategic importance such as heavy industry, public works, construction, energy, telecommunications and others. the state is trying to promote its economic policy, not just its political policy, by means of these contracts, provided, of course, that it has not ceded all its productive resources to foreigners, as the last governments in greece have done because of the implementation of the memoranda. in any case, in order to make this effort successful, what is important is that there should be access to markets in third countries. these countries have, because of protectionism, created difficulties in access and in the offers of european companies. for this reason, and in order to balance fair competition measures, european countries should take advantage of the directives given by the reform of the legal framework for contracts.
mr president, 250,000 public bodies are awarding public contracts for works, supplies and services. the cost is 2 trillion euros, or 14% of gdp. it is clear that these are huge sums of money from the taxpayers and it has been shown that there have been many scandals in the area of public procurement. at the same time, public procurement could support growth, create jobs, help to strengthen the strategy of the state itself, taking into account social and environmental criteria. we see that smes have only received 45% of the contracts, while 55% of the contracts have been awarded on the basis of the low price principle, i.e. the concessionary principle, which does not mean that there is always a guarantee that the projects are profitable. at the same time, internationalisation is creating problems for the european union, as it opens up the market, as was done with the ceta and ttip agreements, while other third countries keep their own markets closed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 october 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the deterioration of media freedom in belarus, in particular the case of charter 97 (2018/2861 ((rsp)).
mr president, in the united arab emirates, as in the rest of the arabian peninsula, there is no such thing as democracy, because there is a total suppression of human rights. activists are being tortured, bloggers are being persecuted, there are travel restrictions for dissidents. in the united arab emirates, discrimination against women continues, and no labour rights are respected, and the death penalty continues to exist. i think that the european union must send a strong message to the united arab emirates, which is involved in the slaughter in yemen and to which european arms manufacturers and dealers sell weapons. i believe that concrete measures should be taken against the united arab emirates, not any more european union gestures towards them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, a few days ago the international media, based on information obtained from whistleblowers, uncovered a gigantic tax fraud. according to conservative estimates, the public funds of 11 member states have suffered losses of over eur 55 billion. banks, law firms and insiders have organized a gigantic network of tax evasion at the expense of the public funds of the honest taxpayers of society and the welfare state. the european parliament, we, represent citizens who are the victims of this great tax fraud. that is why we must discuss this matter, to stop these scandalous situations. the proposal jointly supported by the left, socialists and greens is to organise a debate entitled - i am reading it in english - 'council and commission statements about the cum ex scandal: financial crime and the loopholes in the current legal framework'. my group also believes that a resolution should follow the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i accept that the special committee on taxation must also deal with the matter and i propose that the next plenary session, after the tax committee has worked out the details, should be held either in november or, at the latest, in december, so that we can have a resolution. that's my final offer, and i think it can cover all of us.
madam president, the european union is trying to meet the paris commitments, but it has entrusted this process to the carbon trading system, the ets, which is based on market forces and is therefore ineffective. at the same time, there is a lot of speculation. the greek ppp is obliged to pay 400 million euros for the ets every year and now this burden will reach 600 million euros, at a time when there is precision in the current, there is energy poverty and, at the same time, very expensive heating oil. however, bulgaria and poland are exempted from the purchase of emission rights. the question is why there should not be this exception for the greek ppp, to be treated in the same way as the bulgarian ppp, in order to be able to respond to a difficult phase for the greek economy and greek society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union cannot finance turkey. turkey holds 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus, has occupied another member state, threatens greece constantly with casus belli if greece extends its territorial waters to 12 miles, threatens it with war, violates greek territorial waters, violates greek airspace. is it possible for the european union to finance turkey? i'm not sure. we are proposing a freeze of european union funds for turkey. at the same time, you are giving funds to the western balkans, to skopje, where there is an orgy of corruption. recently we had procedures of intimidation, threats and bribes in order to get mr zaev 80 mps to pass ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the water sector, which is a key element of the syriza-anel government's plans to privatise eydap and eyath and to fully commercialise water. the price limits proposed each time, the chemical exemptions, the derogations from the hazard lists, the decade-long reductions, are linked to big business interests and competition. workers should fight against the strategy of the european union and governments, of commercialisation, of liberalisation, which in the name of profitability, degrades the quality of water, burdens the working class family, and strengthens the exploitation of workers in the sector. we demand no form of direct or indirect privatization, public water, a free natural good, free from commercial use that presupposes a radically different path of development, water cheap and of good quality for all the people, no water cut-offs for the poor layers of the people.
madam president, water is unquestionably the most valuable commodity on the planet. without it, there is no life. but water quality is the issue. with the pollution of the environment by industry and the uncontrolled use of pesticides, it is a fact that the aquifers in many countries of the union are laden with substances that make water dangerous. access to good quality drinking water remains an important issue for european citizens, affecting their daily lives, health and activities. member states are primarily responsible for meeting water quality standards so that citizens have access to drinking water that is not just good but of high quality. particular attention should be paid to the price of water and speculation should be avoided. i do not think that the present revision has anything to add to the standards of water quality for human consumption, except that it should adjust the parametric values established to the most recent scientific data. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water quality' in the definition of water quality.
mr president, the need for access to high quality drinking water is a vital need and a right of every human being to be able to survive. in the present era, meeting this need is particularly important because we have to deal with the consequences of climate change, but also with the pollution of the water table and water sources by industrial waste. in order to tackle all these problems, the control and management of water sources should be carried out by the competent authorities of the member states, since they have the power to protect the sources and, above all, to take measures to prevent them from being contaminated. also, the state has the ability to ensure cheap water and access to it for all social classes in the country and not let it be controlled by private companies.
mr president, i think that the debate has shown that plastic waste is indeed a huge danger to the environment. they are creating a problem for human health, they are polluting our seas, which are now full of plastic, they are undermining all the marine wealth and this, of course, is something that concerns us all, and especially us, since in greece we have clean seas and we want to have clean seas in the future, since tourism is a huge industry for our country. it is therefore logical to aim at banning certain single-use plastics by taking specific actions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not affected by the current crisis. the transition, of course, must be gradual, it must be measured, and we must have a balance in our interventions.
mr president, there is no doubt that we are living in the age of plastics. there are currently 6 billion tonnes of plastic waste, polluting the seas and the water table. if this ocean pollution continues, by 2050 there will be more plastic in the seas than fish and mammals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, the brutal fiscal adjustment and austerity imposed in recent years within the euro area have resulted in a recession, increased unemployment and, of course, very serious repercussions on pension systems in all the member states. in greece in particular, the troika has turned my country into a social graveyard, with pensions cut by 40%, with a third of pensioners living on less than 600 euros gross per month. with the psi, which dissolved the insurance funds, and while the government had the opportunity to proceed with recapitalization of the insurance funds, it did not do so. now, they attack pensions and threaten the eurogroup to cut pensions again from 01/01/2019. we say hands off pensions. greek pensioners have been impoverished. they can't take any more cuts.
mr president, we have only been given a brief presentation to discuss employment in the euro area. the european citizens need secure jobs. the figures in the hetman report prove this. i am glad that my amendment has succeeded in saying that social objectives must have the same priority as economic ones. but the conservatives have not accepted any real reforms to tackle unemployment, namely neither european unemployment insurance, nor a stabilisation mechanism through investment, nor even a study on the relationship between employment and growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the report refers to the participation of workers in management and in the profits of enterprises as a way of increasing wages. but what about wages in the countries of the european south? in greece, the memoranda reduced the minimum wage and even provided for a sub-minimum wage, which is lower for young people under 25. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. wages in the public sector have also been cut, and in the private sector, of course, and in the public sector, gifts have been abolished. one realizes that there is a situation of a labor jungle today in greece, with companies leaving thousands of workers unpaid, with companies refusing to insure workers, with companies not paying wages, but many of them forcing workers to be paid in kind. that's disgraceful! the working-class jungle, the working-class middle ages in greece, must be stopped.
mr president, employee shares, profit sharing, wage-productivity linkages, individual and group agreements for production bonuses, cooperative enterprises, the solidarity economy, all these are carrots that are being used as a whip to abolish collective agreements, wage increases, strike action and all other labour rights. in greece the neo-left syriza government has voted again on the memorandum law abolishing collective agreements, the wage dependency on profits. the capitalists, of course, are not satisfied with this, they want to manipulate the workers to make them shareholders in their own exploitation, with social dialogues and the betrayal of the governmental employers' union to kill their movement. these mean endless hours of unpaid work, exhausting intensification in the pursuit of goals, resignation from raises, collective action and litigation, loss of insurance fund work in the event of bankruptcy. corporate profits imply brutal exploitation of the workers, not commensurate with their well-being. only organized class struggle, aiming at the overthrow of the exploitative system, can defend today and permanently secure workers' rights.
mr president, the participation of workers in the management of enterprises and in the share capital of enterprises is one of the factors which can contribute to economic growth. when an employee has a share in the company's capital, he is motivated to work more efficiently, to use his skills and to contribute to the viability of the company, which he considers to be a family business. in this sense, it is therefore positive, at least in theory, for an employee to participate in the share capital of an undertaking and also in the management of the undertaking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. unfortunately, in greece it has been shown that none of this is true. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
mr. president, against the illusion of freedom on the internet is the harsh reality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. for the rest, work, information, entertainment mean, unwittingly or unknowingly, self-involvement. their personal data, their political attitudes and their interests are recorded, aggregated, processed, made into commodities, subject to fierce competition for which group, which secret service and bourgeois state will control them, hoard them, displace its competitors. the european union and its governments are masquerading as sensitive personal data, setting up gdpr-like mechanisms and imposing sanctions, serving european corporations in their competition with their american counterparts for market control. a beautiful world, capitalism made by angels, the challenge of this system, which is currently censored and filtered, will find its way and, with its overthrow, science, technology and their applications will be put at the service of the people's needs.
mr. president, the cambridge analytica scandal revealed that the personal data details of some 50 million users that it had managed to secure, it allegedly used to bolster president trump's campaign. of course, this practice is not unknown in the united states. according to bloomberg, in 2012, president obama did something similar. the deeper issue that arises from this scandal, however, is the security of personal data. each person, without unfortunately taking into account the issue of privacy, gives his personal data to social networks, hoping that it will not be analyzed. unfortunately, this is not the case, because with the algorithms that these media have created, they analyze personal data to assess, mainly, commercial preferences and also policies and can influence them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the right to freedom of expression is respected.
mr president, the romanian government, about a year ago, decided to abolish employer contributions and to transfer the cost of contributions to the workers only. in return, he called on the companies to increase wages. mr president of romania, i would ask you to tell us whether this unprecedented social security reform has had any benefit for the workers, whether in the end the companies have made similar increases or whether the workers have gone bankrupt even more. i would ask you to answer so that we can know whether or not you will be working for a europe of social protection and a fair distribution of the burden of insurance.
mr president, water is a social good, it is essential for life and health. that's why the citizens' water initiative gathered over 2 million signatures. everyone demands quality water, clean water, water that is accessible to all, universal access to water. this means, of course, that the price of water must be affordable for all and that there should be special tariffs for vulnerable social groups such as the unemployed, that there should be zero value added tax on water-related social services, that there should be no interruption of water supply in the event of debts by vulnerable social groups such as pensioners, that there should be cancellation of overdue debts of the unemployed. the water supply, of course, is to be provided by the public sector and not by private structures. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
madam president, we must guarantee basic labour rights, because i think this is the key element in the modern era, especially in the countries of the european south, especially in greece, where the payment of wages is no longer even guaranteed, because we have too many employers who do not pay their workers. at the same time, these employers often force them to be paid in kind. moreover, these employers do not even pay social security contributions. it is clear that the exploitation of workers continues, especially in times of crisis, with the chineseisation of wages that has taken place in the greek economy, with daily interventions in their trade union rights and, at the same time, the reduction of wages continues, as we have thousands of illegal immigrants, who act as a reserve army to reduce workers' wages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted.
madam president, mr timmermans, the obsession with neoliberal recipes and with stagnation is feeding anti-european, far-right populism which seeks to dismantle european integration, to shrink democracy and to create a great social backwardness. you can hear them in here. the question is what are you doing not in words, but in action to address the critical changes that citizens demand: a real social pillar and not just a label in words, a multiannual budgetary framework to be adopted before the european elections and supporting growth and cohesion policies that reduce inequalities, reforming asylum policy so that greece and italy do not bear all the burden of refugees, strengthening transparency and democratic accountability, more ambitious targets to tackle climate change. these are the things that judge progress, and these are the things that will judge you. not by words, but by deeds. by what you're doing at the end of the day.
madam president, mr juncker and the commission have one last chance to correct their policies before they are finally written in black letters in the history of europe. the withdrawal of the united kingdom, uncontrolled illegal immigration, terrorism and prolonged economic austerity on european citizens, especially those in the southern countries, show that their programmes have achieved their aim. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. but europe is changing, people are waking up and demanding respect and dignity. the commission must respect their decision and proceed immediately to the repatriation of the sovereign rights of the member states to their respective governments and to concentrate exclusively on the normalization of the economic inequalities created by its wrong policies. otherwise, the union will collapse and the disaster will have a name.
madam president, the european citizens are demanding a change of course: abandonment of austerity, abandonment of forced budgetary adjustment, emphasis on social europe, solidarity, strengthening of territorial and social cohesion and, at the same time, the operation of relocation mechanisms in relation to refugees. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the community's industrial policy. in relation to the euro area, the institution must operate much more flexibly, the stability pact must be abolished, the fiscal sovereignty of the member states must be restored and function, they must be able to implement what their peoples believe and demand in budgetary matters and, at the same time, the recovery of monetary sovereignty by the member states within the euro area must be considered in the future, so that their own central banks can exercise this sovereignty in proportion to their participation in the capital of the european central bank. with a more flexible eurozone we can have answers to economic growth.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat fraud. at least €55 billion was stolen from the public purse by at least 11 member states. i asked yesterday for this debate to be held urgently in the plenary, because once again, mr moscovici, the european supervisory mechanisms have fallen asleep. after the panama papers and the paradise papers, another scandal is being revealed, not by the european control mechanisms, not by the competent institutions, but by the whistleblowers, and this flagrant failure, this fiasco, and the guilty political silence that accompanies it - what the council has told us is a monument to hypocrisy and guilty political silence - poisons democracy and burdens all citizens. what did the council tell us ? we haven't discussed it yet, we haven't seen anything illegal. - i know. is this how you respond to the public when it is revealed that 55 billion euros have been stolen? and who paid for these? the honest taxpayers, the public purse, the welfare state, small and mediumsized enterprises. we need a common european response to close all the loopholes in the legislation, automatic exchange of information, stronger instruments and sanctions. i conclude, mr president, that political silence and inaction is complicity, because this blatant injustice is poisoning democracy.
mr president, after the panama papers, another scandal, the cum ex scandal. tax evasion scandal, tax evasion, theft of 55 billion euros from the public coffers. it was not taxed by wealthy taxpayers, big investors, big banks, banks that were bailed out with taxpayers' money that governments taxed to bail out banks. we had a short-term transfer of securities in order to have tax breaks on dividends. the measures that must be taken are certainly transparency, exchange of information at european level, and above all the introduction of a european glass-steagall act to separate the commercial activities of banks from investment activities, because only with a new european glass-steagall act can we limit fraud of this kind.
mr president, saudi arabia is a country which violates human rights and takes its revenge in a cruel way on those who defend them, but also on those who criticize them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. so the questions are: why did the saudi state order the assassination of khashoggi? was khashoggi simply a critic of his country's government, or did he know other information that he might have revealed? also, did the united states intelligence community know about khashoggi's murder, and if so, why didn't they notify him? what matters is that these questions are not going to be answered, because the united states and saudi arabia have special ties, both economic and military. a contract for the purchase of military equipment worth 110 billion dollars has recently been signed. so, the most likely thing is that the khashoggi case will be put on the record, because the united states is using saudi arabia against both iran and terrorism.
madam president, a few days after nato, the situation in the azov sea and the black sea is also being discussed in the european parliament. it was to be expected. it is a region with energy sources and pipelines, but also a key player in the military encirclement of russia by the european union and the united states, and with a nato base in the context of their rivalries that are escalating with the withdrawal of the united states from the nuclear weapons agreement. in the big picture, the same strategy includes the intervention of the euro-nazis in ukraine, with a government supported by nazis. in the balkans, they are increasing their presence with the unacceptable prespa agreement, while border changes continue, as in kosovo. the nato fleet is being invited to the aegean, and other military bases are being set up throughout greece by the syriza-anel government. the knives are out, the people are in immediate danger. the only solution is solidarity, the common struggle against the plundering of the monopolies whose one spark is enough to throw the peoples back into a general conflict.
madam president, once again, there is tension in russia's relations with ukraine because of the events in the azov sea. ukraine accuses russia of blocking access to azov sea ports, ukrainian ports, by means of controls, to merchant ships passing through the kerch strait. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. at the same time, it has increased its naval presence in the azov sea with two gunboats and plans to establish a naval base in the area by the end of the year. this tension is also fatal for the united states, which, seeking to serve its strategic interests, is trying to restrict russia and prevent it from supplying energy to the countries of the middle east and some countries of the european union. the whole situation could easily get out of hand, because let us not forget that the sea of azov is russia's only naval access to the south.
mr president, the mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is important for the functioning of the european union and is of course based on article 7. but the basic condition, mr timmermans, for the operation of article 7 is that this mechanism must operate within the competences of the european union and not as a mechanism for the application of the competences of the member states. we know that the basis for the functioning of the european union is article 5, that is to say the principle of conferring powers, that is to say that the european union and its institutions have as many powers as the treaties themselves confer on them. the mechanism cannot therefore be used to intervene in matters which are outside the competence of the european union and the question of the constitution and functioning of the judiciary of a member state is an exclusive competence. otherwise, if this principle is not respected, if the principle of the separation of powers is not respected, then many parties here will easily accuse the commission of playing politics. you can and must act when there is a breach of community law and when you have the power to intervene in this matter. if your area of competence is outside, then you risk being criticised by those who do not respect democracy many times, but who will be stomped on for acting outside the competence of the european union. in any case, the court of justice of the european union can judge the scope of jurisdiction and whether you are right.
mr president, the uncontrolled illegal immigration and the need to combat terrorism are forcing states to increase controls at their borders. this is very normal to happen. the commission is also working on the schengen information system. one of the improvements is the addition of biometric information. this data is particularly sensitive and should not be entered into the system unless it has been previously carefully examined and analysed. particular attention should be paid to the biometric data of vulnerable groups such as young children. on the other hand, the security of these data must be ensured so that they are not used in a way that infringes fundamental rights. moreover, we should bear in mind that the purpose of this system is to protect us from terrorism and organised crime and not to create a 'big brother'.
mr president, mr king, i listened to you earlier, both you and mr avramopoulos, and i really thought about what the inhabitants of the aegean islands would say if they heard you. because you mentioned that you would restrict illegal entry into the european union, there would be checks, fingerprints would be taken. - where ? to moriah ? the moria hotspot where there are 10,000 people? the police dare to go in and check? have you been to see what's in moria? no man dares to pass through. things are out of control. you're going to check souda, that is chios, where even the greek police dare not enter? you're going to check on sam? listen, why haven't they deported the thousands of illegal immigrants who are currently on the aegean islands? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the debate on the future of the european union. the citizens of evros would ask you why illegal immigrants are now crossing from turkey to bulgaria and then to greece. you're going to stop them? you're going to fingerprint them? there must be seriousness in the operation of frontex. there's no border guard and the maritime border is fine. there is no frontex guard on evro, which is a land border. there are no answers to these questions.
mr president, once again, the same audience. we have seen and talked about the same things for all these years, with the only exception that we see the council here this time. that's a step. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr valli, on his report and say that it is all due to the council's view that it is not supposed to come to the european parliament to ask for a discharge. we believe that the treaty requires this and we have the right to do so, and you as the council must finally be transparent, open to criticism and, of course, follow the very rules of the treaty. we have a lot of questions: what about the buildings, how are the construction projects going, what about the administrative costs. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the council must follow this line, because we have a part of the council, another body which is the eurogroup, which again includes ministers, states, and is uncontrollable and at the same time imposes policies on the member states. so it must be time for you to be transparent about how you operate.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am glad that we have to discuss this important issue tonight, and my thanks to our rapporteur, bart staes. i am counting on an open and frank discussion because we share the same concerns and goals in dealing with this issue and making sure it will not be repeated. the european asylum support office (easo) has a key role at the core of our migration policy. it has been supporting and continues to support member state asylum systems in processing an increasing number of asylum applications and providing assistance to asylum seekers and refugees. the easo ensures an important part of the workload on the ground: it currently deploys more than 274 people directly to support the greek and italian asylum services. to ensure the convergence of the national asylum systems, easo has developed standards for reception conditions, to be applied across europe. all member states can benefit from its expertise, for instance from its reports on the situation in countries of origin, in the assessment of asylum applications. the commission made a proposal, in 2016, to transform the easo into a fully-fledged european asylum agency. to ensure that the easo will be able to continue effectively facing the increasing migratory challenges and building on the agreement reached between the co-legislators last september, we have proposed that it be further strengthened to make sure it can provide member states with all the technical support they may need. both proposals reinforce the governance of the agency. the importance of the work of this agency is one of the reasons why the commission takes the matter of its governance, and the past issues, very seriously. we want to make sure that measures are implemented immediately to improve the agency’s management and prevent something like this from happening again. we want to leave this story behind and concentrate on reinforcing the agency and ensuring the efficiency of its work. that is why, when the first alleged irregularities were reported to the commission, a number of mitigating and precautionary measures were immediately taken to improve oversight of the agency, including through reinforced and rigorous monitoring and control of the former executive director. several of these measures were initiated by the commission itself, with support from the chair of the board. the rapporteur, mr staes, has rightly highlighted some points. but it should also be clear to everyone that the easo is a decentralised and independent agency of the union. it is governed by a management board composed of member states’ representatives. the commission has only two members sitting on that board. the agency’s executive director is appointed by the management board and is accountable for his actions to the management board, as well as to the european parliament and the council when his actions relate to the use of eu funds. it is therefore primarily the responsibility of the agency to remedy any shortcomings identified. as i said, the commission is closely and continuously following the situation in the easo and it supports the ongoing efforts to improve the agency’s governance and functioning. we are paying special attention to procedures in the areas of recruitment, procurement, budget and audits, and to the internal governance framework. to this end, the commission is closely following the implementation of the interim executive director’s detailed governance action plan that enumerates 53 detailed corrective measures to restore trust, reinforce the internal governance framework and rebuild the internal capacity of the agency. i would like to express my thanks to parliament for welcoming the actions implemented so far, in its second report on the 2016 easo discharge, which we are discussing tonight. in addition, let me stress that the commission takes equally seriously the 2017 annual report of the european court of auditors, as well as the recommendations of the commission’s internal audit service and any upcoming report from olaf. we are monitoring the implementation by the easo of these recommendations, and we will continue to do so. the commission is counting, first and foremost, on the easo management to take all the necessary measures to ensure the proper functioning of the agency, and it stands ready to provide its support and expertise.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, what has happened to easo has damaged the credibility of this agency and i do not think that the removal of the previous leadership, the former executive director, is a cure for the problems. the problems are deep, you know very well that the olaf investigation is continuing and we do not know exactly what will come out, as well as the observations of the court of auditors on the activity of 2017, which also observes particular problems. problems of legality, of the regularity of the transactions on which the accounts and the allocations of funds are based. so for us the problem is serious. we do not agree with the rapporteur. as ecr we are not going to grant an exemption to easo. we think that questions and research should remain. we understand that some people, like the socialist side, are making a mockery of the need, but that does not mean that we should discharge the eas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have thousands of applications that are pending, asylum applications. the easo should have been more decisive in this matter, although we of course recognise the responsibility of the greek authorities in this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we cannot have thousands waiting for the asylum case to be heard. they all come to greece, they make one application within ten days and they wait three years for their application to be judged, which if judged, in the majority of cases the applications will be rejected and sent back. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the easo is able to fulfil its mandate. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. first of all, it is clear that the irregularities committed are also linked to the functioning of the service itself and, of course, to the role it has played. because if the executive director and his staff were really concerned with how the service should work and not partying with the costs, then obviously they would be much more focused on the work they had to provide and the help they had to provide to greece. so there is a direct link between the mismanagement that has been shown and the removal that was rightly done and the inability of easo to operate and help the greek authorities. this is very important. the fact that i also said that the functioning of the commission must be improved in the future is a political statement that must be made, since mr avramopoulos is here, the commissioner responsible. we are not going to grant the discharge, and i think you should think about your position tomorrow as a european people's party.
mr president, once again, savage anti-communism in the european parliament. you're competing to see who's more anti-communist! you have historically equated communism with fascism and thus fed the far right and fascism that is the reserve of your capitalism. because you all have a common enemy: the peoples you crush and with the decisions of your councils, like the last one, where you can have huge rivalries between you on brexit, on the italian budget, which was rejected and which literally lays down the lies of syriza in greece that you can leave the memoranda and the committee within the european union and the power of capital. but you agree to anti-people politics, to crush the people to give them to the monopolies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of refugees, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. in the end, the election dilemma you've been peddling, who's progressive or conservative, is a sham. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the people must reject them.
the conclusions of the european council meeting, madam president, are disheartening for the citizens, bitter in their content and detrimental to the daily life of every european. while the institutions announce that all is well in greece, more than 200 people are entering every day. of these, half a percent will legally leave the country, while practically no one will return to turkey. the german authorities, however, are returning 4,000 to greece, the country where more than 100,000 are officially hosted without legal documents or seeking protection through the granting of asylum. yet, we hear philanthropic words from politicians who worship humanism, but as it turns out, they don't care about people. the council is calling for better implementation of the agreement with turkey, while in effect serving the interests of the smugglers. it serves to perpetuate lawlessness. he serves erdoğan's interests. we demand the minimum: the restoration of a sense of security among citizens, the reintroduction of controls at internal and external borders under the sole responsibility of the states, the rejection of parallel societies within our borders and, finally, the expulsion of all illegal immigrants.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in may 2019 we have the european elections and the top issue of immigration remains problematic. there is an unfair burden-sharing between member states and a lack of solidarity. the measures to support frontex and the european border guard are not sufficient, and the revision of the dublin system has been met with rigidity by some member states. at the same time, turkey, which systematically disregards international law, escalating its provocations against my country greece, is implementing the 2016 eu-turkey agreement to the letter! the flows of refugees and migrants from the turkish coast to the islands of the north-east aegean have increased significantly, and there are also daily arrivals of a large number of foreigners at the greek-turkish land border on evros. in six months' time, we shall be asking the european citizens to vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must demonstrate in practice that the eu has the will, but above all the power, to enforce its decisions on all member states without exception.
mr president, the commission cut 250 million euros from the pre-accession aid for turkey, the council cut another 150 million euros and today we are cutting another 66 million euros. this money goes to reform policy and we may have justified objections to the rule of law, but this money also goes to managing migration flows and border management and to integrating vulnerable groups and civil society. the bright face of dynamic civil society, the faces of turkey, will be dazzled by our own difficulty in being able to decide, by our own short-sighted decision. but the three billion euros that are still outstanding from the european union's agreement with turkey (the eu-turkey declaration) are becoming a game between parliament and the member states. we must make it clear that this will not be cut because, to repeat the most competent words from the greek government, what stands between us and the catastrophe is the joint declaration with turkey.
mr president, the budget we are voting on today is indeed very important because the withdrawal of the united kingdom will reduce our resources and once again in europe we will be called upon to do more with less. but the reality is that this gap can be filled by european resources, the gap that cannot be easily filled is the gap in global competitiveness. for this reason, initiatives such as the juncker plan, which is being continued in the form of investeu, are those which can really give europe a great boost, give it wings, as long as they are addressed to everyone. in greece, for example, we had multiple results in transport and broadband investments, in research and innovation. but we have not been able to get funds from the juncker plan for small and mediumsized enterprises. we need to encourage innovative investments, such as the one in lithuania, to produce energy from biomass and solid waste at the same time. we must see that they are repeated and we must adopt the best practices. we need to respond to the new era by creating sustainable jobs.
mr president, in europe we may not be the world champions in plastic pollution, but we produce one hundred and fifty thousand tonnes every year and throw them into the sea, and if we do not take significant initiatives both at european and international level, by 2050 we will have more plastic than fish in our seas. today, of course, there is the target of recycling 65% of plastics by 2025 in packaging and 70% by 2030, as well as other specific targets. but what is important and urgent is to move to immediate alternatives and to replace conventional single-use plastics with those that are biodegradable or that can be made into fertilisers. we have to change the consumer model. for this reason, i have launched with colleagues virkkunen and ribeiro, and with the support of vice-president katainen, the 'fish or plastic' campaign. consumers have to change. but above all, governments need to adopt and implement waste management plans immediately with a view to a circular economy and, ultimately, the replacement of plastics with either recyclable or biodegradable plastics.
mr president, the debate on the european asylum support office comes at a time when an olaf investigation is under way into several former and current members of the european asylum support office. so the key word is the word trust. it is essential that we restore trust with our citizens. it is necessary to have absolute transparency. for this reason, there is an urgent need for a clear action plan on the recovery of irregular payments, on the financing of operational support activities of the office in reception centres and on the identification of irregular migrants or refugees in certain member states, such as greece. it is necessary to ensure that all tender procedures are strictly observed at the same time as regards community public procurement legislation. it is essential that citizens once again believe that the european asylum support office manages their money with absolute reliability and transparency.
mr president, the lisbon treaty does not bear the title of a constitution, but is a quasi-constitution in disguise and is treated as such by the european institutions. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. we have not a union of democracy and security, but an institutional imposition and collusion against national authorities with controlled procedures where union law takes precedence over national law. the treaty has been used to deprive the member states of their national identity and sovereign rights. it has contributed to the intimidation of europe and will contribute to the coming judicial decline if it is not changed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the repatriation of powers to national capitals, respect for the decisions of the democratically elected governments of the member states, recognition that the union as it functions is not european union and will not become one.
the court of auditors' role is indeed important, mr president, as it controls how european union funds are spent. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budget is properly managed and that the budget is properly managed. we are of course of the opinion that the error rate of 2.4% is still too high. we want to get it down to 2%, and that's why we're keeping our guard up. at the same time, i think it is important that the court of auditors takes seriously the irregularities that have been committed, and indeed serious irregularities, in the operation of easo, the european asylum support office, and that you should insist on that. and also, insist on controlling how the funds are spent by the ngos, because the ngos are having a party right now. we have a lot of complaints in greece, olaf has already started an investigation and we want an answer to that, mr lehne, when you come back to the floor. the question of absorption should also concern us, but this concerns mainly italy and poland.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by alessia maria mosca and daniel dalton, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the import of cultural goods (com (2017) 0375 - c8-0227/2017 - 2017/0158 (cod)) (a8-0308/2018)
mr president, cultural heritage is one of the basic elements of civilization. it contributes to the preservation of historical memory and national traditions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of cultural property in the event of the loss of a cultural object is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. why do we talk about iraq, but we forget and turn a blind eye to what is happening here in the european union. once again, i raise the question of the return of the archaeological treasures of greece looted by the nazis during the german occupation of 1941 to 1944. these looted treasures are in museums in germany. as early as 1946, the greek ministry of education compiled a detailed list of these archaeological treasures stolen by the nazis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of cultural heritage. i would like to ask you, mrs bulc, what action is the european commission taking to ensure that the greek archaeological treasures looted by the german occupying forces are returned to greece? i want an answer to that. we can't just talk about iraq. let's see what's going on here in europe.
mr president, the issue of veterinary medicines is extremely important and affects the health of citizens in various direct and indirect ways. first, we must admit that at the scale of animal husbandry today, farmers face the risk of rapidly spreading diseases that imply enormous economic losses for them. the answer to this danger, however, should not be the reckless use of antibiotics, as is done up to now, administering antibiotics to the drinking water of animals and to their food. the fact is that with these practices already microorganisms have developed resistance to antibiotics with potentially devastating consequences in the future. it is also known that there is a possibility of substances from veterinary medicinal products passing through the tropical chain to humans, with all the risks that this entails. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but first and foremost, we all need to realize how serious the situation is already and what the future consequences will be if we do not act now to minimise the use of antibiotics.
mr president, the imposition of tolls has created enormous problems and reactions in greece for the simple reason that the main roads were built with money from the european union and the greek state and suddenly they were handed over to private individuals, without them having put anything in, without having made any investment. and there are excessive tolls that citizens are reacting to. they're now reacting to the new toll that's coming into ignatia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. they'll have to pay tolls. the same reaction was also felt in the region of attica, because local transport requires the payment of tolls. one realizes that the tolling right now in greece is an unfair process, it only supports private companies, and the rest of the toll that is collected goes to pay off the creditors. we believe that there should be no tolls on transport in greece. the infrastructure was built with money from the european union and the greek state, and private individuals just showed up to collect the profits.
mr president, zero-emission mobility must be a priority and must be a strategy, a green mobility in essence. but this too must be done gradually, carefully, with balance and poise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must also be financially motivated to make these changes.
mr president, in the context of protecting the environment in the face of climate change, the european union has committed itself to reducing, or even eliminating, carbon dioxide emissions from transport. to achieve this commitment, clean and energy-efficient vehicles should be produced and used. this effort must also be combined with the creation of infrastructure for the production of alternative fuels, since 95% of vehicles today use fossil fuels. public procurement also plays an important role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. finally, clean vehicle manufacturers should be protected from unfair competition created by the production of these vehicles in third countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, the commission's proposal for the automatic joint recognition of higher and secondary education diplomas is yet another attempt to take away the right which the member states have until now to shape their education systems, the content of the qualifications and the teaching methods. the implementation of the proposal is also based on the knowledge and training toolkit, the qualification market and knowledge items that are certified and recognised throughout europe. the commission's recommendations to the council, ladies and gentlemen, seek to bring the education systems in the member states into line with the political priorities of the newly liberal european union by means of homogenization. we have seen the results of the bologna process and the commission's guidelines on education, commissioner. the political priorities of the neoliberal european union in education are to degrade the public character of education and under-fund it, to transform studies into educational products, to introduce tuition fees in universities, to subordinate curricula to market demands, to grant degrees without real rights, to degrade the role of students and teachers in admission procedures, to eliminate the 'brain drain' phenomenon which mainly benefits the powerful countries at the expense of the countries of the south. i don't know if that's the kind of mobility we're talking about. three hundred thousand scientists have left greece during the crisis years and have gone to more powerful countries. the creation of a european education area completes these reforms. in greece, the education movement is demanding educational institutions that promote universal knowledge, increased state spending on education, upgrading the role of teachers and professors, public and free education for all, and, finally, the overthrow of austerity policies to fight unemployment.
mr president, i would like to join my speakers who have made a very strong case for supporting the automatic recognition of university diplomas. it's very important, the reasons are there. if we are to fight youth unemployment, then we must enable them to make their education, their qualifications, applicable in any eu country, and this is linked to the erasmus project itself. i have recently met czech students who tell me that unfortunately the attractiveness of erasmus education is declining because some universities have difficulty in including the erasmus study and practical experience in the home university education itself. these are problems that should be addressed and that we should not leave in the air. on the other hand, while i support mutual recognition, it should be said that there are certain fields where mutual recognition is not possible. the question of legal education, the italian lawyers registered with the madrid bar association, was mentioned by the honourable lady. in short, this is exactly the kind of education, the study of law and legal science, where each country has its own education, thanks to its own legal system. this requires a selective approach and a breakdown of the fields where universal quality is possible and where it is influenced by national specificities, such as the legal system of the country. mutual recognition should not undermine the principle of excellence and lead to some sort of benchmarking of the quality of higher education in europe. we must preserve the excellence of education.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship. this is something very important and i think no one is disputing it. the point is not to use the mechanism of recognition of diplomas as a system of downgrading the courses themselves. for example, we have the bachelor in england which is a three-year degree and this could be recognised in other member states, such as greece, where university studies are four years. so the question is: why would someone study in a greek university that is four years old, when they can go to an english university and study for three years and then come to greece and have the same rights as someone who studied for four years? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. it is a difficult exercise, but one which we must proceed with.
mr president, the enormous economic crisis affecting the countries of the european union, and particularly the countries of the south, is forcing young people with higher education and young scientists from these countries to leave and go to other countries in order to find better working conditions there. the tragic victim of this unacceptable situation is the youth of greece, who are forced to leave the country. the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european research council. so, identifying the elements is not going to solve the problem of preventing brain drain, because we're just going to give them the ability to move. what is required is to create the right conditions so that young scientists can stay, work and thrive in their own country. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the establishment of a european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of schools, the european network of the european network of the future.
mr president, the european union's chemical industry is in fierce competition with third countries, with china, india, brazil, south korea and turkey. this does not mean that it should not comply with the reach regulation, which means re-registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals. because if left unchecked, chemicals lead to carcinogenic conditions, teratogenesis and other health problems. but what is now being reported is that there are 600 chemicals circulating in the european union without authorization, that one third of the companies do not comply with the requirements of the directive, and therefore it is a given that there is a huge risk to health and the environment. do we have a new scandal now? this time a chemical industry scandal? who's in charge? we cannot have a policy from anne to caiaphas, from the council to the commission and the member states. who's in charge? who will take concrete measures to protect the civilian population?
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. so we have a lot of medical technology products. we have in vitro diagnostic medical technology, other products, which, of course, create a turnover along with health interventions of one hundred and ten billion euros. it's a lot of money, as they say. so we have prosthetics, the x-rays, the blood tests, the pregnancy tests, the pacemakers. it is understood that there must be standards and these standards must be approved by certified bodies, which must also have certain standards. they have the technology. there should be no conflict of interest. they have the expertise and, i would say, they have a public character. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the work of the european parliament, and i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the work of the european parliament.
madam president, alternative fuels infrastructure is really something very serious. i'll give you an example. there is interest in greece to buy electric cars. only today electric cars have an autonomous function up to two hundred kilometers and after that you have to find a place to recharge. and if you wanted to go from athens to thessaloniki, which is about 500 kilometres away, you had to be sure that you could find somewhere to recharge the car battery, otherwise you would have to stop and hitchhike. so you see, it's very good to move forward with new technologies, but that requires infrastructure. and to do infrastructure, you have to do investment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. we have, and we must, switch to new technologies, but this requires patience and we cannot in one fell swoop throw all conventional cars into the trash. these are problems that need to be addressed.
member of the commission. – madam president, firstly, i want to thank you for this report as it is really important in our efforts to establish in europe low carbon emissions and an energy-efficient green economy and the commission fully agrees with both the rapporteur and also the committee on transport that decisive and swift action is needed on the deployment of the infrastructure for alternative fuels. we welcome the constant support of this house to make this happen. our action plan adopted in november last year gives a very clear picture of the investment gap as well as of the need for improved coordination both in the public and private sector in this respect. as regards the report’s call for quickly reviewing the directive, for now, the commission is preparing to launch a formal ex-post evaluation of the directive. in that context, we will also consider the need for legislative follow-up action on issues that are important for alternative fuels infrastructure but which are not regulated under this directive. for example, recharging related services – such as location information, payment, vehicles to greet services – are very important to make recharging alternative fuel as easy as with conventional ones. we think that with reviewing the directive before the evaluation is concluded would be premature now. the directive itself foresees a possible review of the legislative framework in place by the end of 2020 at the earliest. moreover, the directive has just been transposed into the legal systems and national laws in the member states. the commission has been – and we are still – closely following the implementation, and we are taking the necessary legal action through enforcement, through infringements, of course. in parallel to this evaluation process, we will continue supporting and facilitating the process of better collaboration and good practice sharing. while we see, of course, that national policy frameworks have their shortcomings, we also see on the other hand that they have acted in many member states as a catalyst of development in this field. the commission also agrees with the report’s conclusion – and some of you also mentioned that – that we need to mobilise additional finance, particularly from the private sector. we had a very good response to our current approach to blending grants with loans under the connecting europe facility (cef), especially for projects in the area of alternative fuels. the commission is therefore in the process of establishing a blending facility under the connecting europe facility. it will make eu financing accessible on a flexible first-come, first-assessed basis. when the project reaches sufficient maturity, the assessment of the project will always take place according, of course, to the legal basis of their respective funding programmes, whether it is the connecting europe facility, fco, future invest eu. it is in our best interests to have a full pipeline of mature projects with a real market impact but of course without market distortions. finally, the commission very much welcomes the positive reception of the european battery alliance that we proposed and the joint undertaking on fuel cells and hydrogen. it is clear that we need a level playing field where all alternative fuels can compete to the best effect that we want to achieve. thank you very much.
madam president, the european union has its roots in the old eec and the basic principle of the eec was the principle of community preference. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market. it was a system of soft protectionism to deal with international competition. the community has, of course, together with the united states succeeded in opening up markets. but of course, opening up markets also means free trade within the european union, from countries that produce cheaply, from european companies that invested in the developing world because wages were cheap there. the result is the disintegration of the european union's own economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have been speaking about the restoration of the principle of community preference since i first came here. i hope it's not too late.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. it must be struck at its root. this means that the various ways and routes for transporting the proceeds of crime to third countries must be closed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that we have only four international mutual assistance agreements at european union level shows that we are far behind, with only japan, the united states, norway and liechtenstein. what about switzerland, where the ill-gotten money is being transferred? there must therefore be a clause so that no trade agreement of the european union can be concluded without a clause on assistance to combat fraud. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the member states.
mr president, it is a fact that for years companies, european and non-european, as well as individual individuals, have been transferring assets and money to third countries. most of that money is fraudulent. the whole trafficking is done with the help of financial institutions, which often act in a fraudulent and opaque way. of course, the opposite is also true. a lot of money from third countries is being funneled into the european union. when this money laundering is combined with the activities of international terrorism, you realise that the risks to the european union are much greater than the risks of simple fraud. in order to deal with this situation, states should not rely solely on their bilateral relations with third countries. the european union must also take action to combat corruption, and it must also conclude agreements with third countries, which will allow the seizure of money and assets which are the products of fraud and their return to the country from which they were transferred to third countries.
mr president, i would like to support the request by the ecr to have a new item on monday on the murder of the greek citizen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greek public is shocked by the murder of konstantinos katsifa, a greek citizen and member of the greek minority in northern epirus, in albania, on 28 october - the day on which greece celebrates the victory over mussolini's fascism. this anniversary is also celebrated in northern europe, that is, within albania. the attempt by katsyfas to explain and celebrate was met with intimidation by the albanian authorities and, most importantly, in the context of a purge by the albanian police, he was murdered. we denounce this case of the murder of katifa, which was politically supported by the albanian prime minister himself, mr rama. and that wasn't all! the albanian authorities, for ten days, did not allow the family to take the body and bury the deceased. i have also written to you, mr president, asking you to intervene on this matter. at the same time, there was a climate of terror during the funeral of qatsifa. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings, including the use of the term 'human trafficking' in the context of the european community's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. churches are being torn down, homes are being demolished, violent expropriations are being carried out. this is a serious matter. we therefore ask the ecr to add this subject as a special debate today before the short debate on minorities and we want a resolution to be adopted at the same time. the view that has been expressed by some political groups that the matter can be discussed at the small meeting where we are discussing albania is not true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore ask our colleagues to support our proposal, the ecr proposal.
on behalf of the ecr group. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but i do not think that the union's proposals so far answer the perhaps most important question: where will all the energy we need come from if we abandon both fossil fuels and nuclear energy? renewable energy sources - despite their positive contribution - are by no means sufficient, at least with current technologies. biofuels may also be creating more problems than they hope to solve. the second point concerns energy poverty. in most member states there is some provision for the support of the economically weak. however, in greece, for example, these provisions are limited to households with a total family income of less than eur 11 000-12 000. in practice, it is impossible for a family with an income of eur 15 000 per year to implement the measures provided for in the reports and to renovate their home to achieve energy savings.
madam president, mr cañete, i would like to return to a subject which i have raised several times. the case concerns emission allowances paid by the public electricity company in greece, pte. right now it's paying 400 million euros a year. next year, because the rights have become more expensive, he will pay 600 million euros a year. but beware: greece is neighbouring albania, which is not bound by any rules, and skopje, turkey and bulgaria, which are exempt and do not pay any emission rights. the same applies to the polish ppa. and i ask you: should not this exception, that is the exception under article 10 of directive 2003/87/ec, also be made available for greek electricity generation? because the criterion was gdp. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. in 2014, however, it was 59,7% of the community average gdp. we're ruined by the memoranda. we must join this exception to have cheap energy and to increase production.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs tomašić, on her report. it is a balanced report, which takes account of the protection of local communities and the major socioeconomic problems that may exist. mr vella, i have spoken to the greek fishermen and asked their opinion. i have been told that they are satisfied with the current arrangements of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a catastrophic accident at sea. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. in this respect, a great deal of protection is required. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. it is the possibility of modernising their fishing fleet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the crisis. these are the questions raised by the greek fishermen, mr vella.
madam president, one year after the floods in mandra, 160 areas in greece are at risk of flooding again, while in mati and other areas the inhabitants are unprotected after the fires. in our question, the commission fully covers the research it has funded which has reached the provocative conclusion that, though unfair, it is more cost-effective to protect wealthy families or factories than to protect the poor, since justice, it says, is not included in the cost-benefit analysis. because flood defenses don't have tolls, tickets, customers by the head or sales by the piece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission, which is also responsible for the government, has also not provided for compensation for the recent floods in greece, euboea and the peloponnese. the commission has thus responded to a question from the communist party of greece meps. the people must resolutely oppose the criterion of capitalist profit and in their struggle demand immediate compensation of 100% for those affected and effective relief and prevention measures.
member of the commission. – madam president, once again, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you all for sharing your views and for voicing your concerns for the regions and the people that have been deeply affected by the recent floods. of course, this is not about an ordinary file; it is about people who have lost their loved ones and some of them who have lost everything. to them, i think, we have to have the same message, together: that europe cares, that europe is here to help. it is our common job. you know, of course, that i am in charge of cohesion policy, and i think cohesion policy has in its very essence the european solidarity. the european union as a whole has benefited each time about european solidarity. so it’s quite natural, when floods occur, that the european union’s mission – european union added value – lies by the side of the victims in the damaged regions, not only on the ground but also in the air. last week, for example, after the request from the italian authorities, the european commission mobilised the copernicus emergency satellite. i think close to 50 highly-detailed satellite maps were provided to assess the damage to the affected regions. i am sorry to say, but it’s not fair to say that europe didn’t show solidarity to italy. italy is the first country that benefited in the last year by the solidarity fund. i would like to remind you about our solidarity at the time of the earthquakes. i was there on the ground. president juncker was there on the ground, and on the emergency procedures we released eur 1.2 billion for the four regions affected by the earthquake in italy. so let’s not be populist. we are waiting now for the assessment of the damage because we cannot do the assessment of the damage. it’s part of the job of the italian government. we are working hand in hand, but we cannot assess the damage when we don’t know how much. and i would like to tell you something: you in the european parliament and in the council made the regulation of the solidarity fund, and it was not written in the regulation how we measure the life of one person. you put in the regulation – the european parliament – that we assess only economic damage. it’s tragic that we don’t compensate, and do you want to do for the next programing period this idea to compensate the families who lose the life of their loved one? but we don’t have in the regulations something like that now, so we assess only economic damages and we waiting for the italian government to give us the assessment. we are also open to shift or change operational programmes on the request of the italian government. i am in direct contact with madam lezzi, with the minister. they are working hard with the local administration because it is not easy to evaluate the damage. but europe is here, and we are here day by night to help, and we were there during the earthquake. so i think it’s very easy to blame the european commission. but look also at what is happening in local and regional policy, because in some regions – not even now – the money that we have released last year in italy didn’t reach the people affected by the earthquake. i would like just to say that we have large interventions in europe – in madeira, in greece. you know very well that last year we were in contact in greece, in evia. we showed solidarity but it was the same problem: that we don’t have how to measure the lives and it was not an economical area there in greece, so greece didn’t qualify to apply for the solidarity fund, unfortunately, but we compensate by more eu funds for the attica region. i think we need to show to the people how much and strong the response in the european union is needed to such tragic circumstances. but we have to be fair: to be fair that we have shared management and shared responsibilities. of course we are coming with the emergency response. we come also with the solidarity fund, which is not an emergency tool; it compensates for the day one. but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government and the local authorities, for which i have full sympathies in such moments. so let’s face things very clearly: things will not get better. unfortunately the effects of climate change are getting harsher, and we will certainly continue to pay the price of decades of unsustainable land and country planning. we need to put all our efforts, all our ideas in prevention and resilience-building to mitigate the effects not only of floods but also, as i said, of forest fires, earthquakes, coastal erosion and drought. europe must keep strong on emergency response. it’s a matter of saving and preserving lives, as i said, but it’s also a long-distance run that will go beyond the many multiannual financial frameworks to come. it starts now by giving our union the capacity to pave the way for a sustainable future. thank you very much and, as always, you can rely on us. we are waiting for the assessment of the damages from the governments affected and we are ready to do all the necessary changes for all the emergency bases, because we know how important it is to be here and to show solidarity.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against the dangers of discrimination is a very good one. but what about the rights of the greek ethnic minority of northern epirus in albania, where there are over 250 000 souls? the greek national minority of northern epirus is guaranteed by the 1914 corfu protocol, which is still in force today, even the great powers have signed it and defines the autonomy of northern epirus. a cultural, religious and administrative autonomy, with the police being staffed by residents of the northern hemisphere only. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the rights of the child are protected. in albania they are demolishing greek churches, destroying greek properties and seizing properties in drymades and himara. and, of course, what they do is murder. they murdered the greek patriot, konstantinos katsifa, because he wanted to celebrate october 28th in northern europe.
madam president, what human rights of minorities are we talking about here, when two weeks ago, on 28 october, the day of greece's national holiday, konstantinos katsifas, a greek and european citizen, was murdered in cold blood by albanian police officers in the village of vouliarates in northern epirus? the albanian government of rama continues the atrocities of the communist hoxha regime, consistently showing its anti-greek hatred towards the greek national minority of northern epirus. it seizes the property of the northerners in himara, illegally persecutes and imprisons entire families, while not allowing the free exercise of the christian orthodox faith, nor the learning of greek. proof of this is the other cowardly murder of greek north epirus, aristotle guma, by albanian extremists, a few meters outside his home in himara in 2010, because he did not give up the right to speak his native language in his native land, greek. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. but a country which does not respect human rights, which does not maintain good neighbourly relations with greece and whose police murder citizens is an enemy of peace, security and stability. this country is called albania and has no place in the european union.
the european union, madam president, likes to talk about minorities and constantly issues resolutions and charters to protect their rights. however, if the existence of a minority is not in the union's interest, no one will bother to defend its rights. even when people are murdered and executed by state agencies, when churches are demolished, when properties are confiscated, when organized groups of over 100 armed men invade villages and terrorize the inhabitants. these incidents are happening in europe, in albania under accession, and specifically in the occupied greek region of northern epirus, where the internationally recognized, even by the albanians themselves, ethnic greek minority is trying to survive. a few years ago, albanian pro-state elements murdered aristotle goma, a greek and member of the minority. on 28 october, the day of the greek national holiday, the albanian state executed konstantinos katsifa. these heroes have already passed into history. but there is no room for hypocrisy here. i do not expect any solution from the european union. the only solution is the liberation of northern epirus and union with mother greece.
madam president, although the protection of the rights of minorities is guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, many states are violating the human rights of minorities. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is seizing property, demolishing churches, trying to limit the number of members of the minority, not teaching greek in minority schools and terrorizing members of the greek community in unacceptable ways. in 2010 he murdered aristotle goma. on october 28, 2018, the day of greece's national anniversary, konstantinos katsifa was assassinated by the albanian police special forces, under the cover of the prime minister. the prime minister even insulted the dead man. these are unacceptable methods, which are not appropriate for a civilised state. albania wants to become a member of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he's doing very well and he's pursuing it. but until the moral and physical perpetrators of the murders of the greeks of northern epirus are brought to justice, we shall obstruct albania's european prospects by every legal means. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. you obviously have a problem with the interpretation, because we did not claim that albania is a member of the european union but that it is trying to become one. but you have a problem with both history and reality. there are no ethnic minorities in greece. there is only one muslim minority. macedonians and turks are minorities that you only see in some phase of your sleep.
the european union's alleged concern for minorities and their rights, which is in any case trampling on them, as well as the rights of entire peoples, is hypocritical and dangerously suspect. the european union, nato and governments remember them, not to protect them, but to cultivate nationalisms and altruisms by 'divide and rule' or by invoking so-called self-determination and self-determination. they use it as a pretext for political military interventions and change the borders with the blood of the people to serve their interests. the european union has been a party to the peace process in kosovo for a long time, and it is not just the serbs who are fighting for the independence of kosovo, but also the serbs who are fighting for the independence of kosovo. with the prespes agreement between greece and fyrom, leaving the al-rumans intact and strengthening the murderous nato in the region, with the syriza government in the dirty role. the report is indicative of the european union's plans for better-designed exploitation of minorities for such purposes. the real rights of minorities must of course be respected. the only people who can protect them are the people themselves, with their struggle and their solidarity.
madam president, we are discussing digitalisation, which must be put at the service of development in order to reduce poverty through the use of technology. but the question is, what do we mean by "development"? we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in this. will we have growth with a fair distribution of wealth and with justice? or will we have growth simply to make the rich richer and the poor poorer? and at the same time, the countries of the european north, the developed countries, moving forward and the developing countries lagging behind? so, it's primarily a matter of choice. secondly, technologies are not socially neutral. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. but if the right policy choices are made, they can be put to the service of the development of the developing countries themselves, so that these countries can reap the fruits of their own development and exploit their own wealth.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes this report and i would like to thank rapporteur wenta and the committee on development (deve) for their work. digitalisation is a key factor for achieving the sustainable development goals, and of course it provides cost-effective solutions to development needs by creating high—quality jobs and sustainable growth. it is also an effective instrument to address challenges such as social exclusion and inequality, cybersecurity, data protection and governance. in may 2017, the commission services put forward a new digital4development strategic approach, the so-called d4d, which outlines four priority areas for future eu interventions: access to open, affordable and secure broadband connectivity and digital infrastructure; digital literacy skills; digital for growth, entrepreneurship and job creation; and digital technologies as an enabler. the d4d approach has gained momentum. it is now reflected in the european consensus on development and in the communication on a new africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment in jobs. more generally, under the current period, the commission’s development policy has put a strong emphasis on digitalisation. last year alone, over eur 100 million were invested in projects covering mostly regional digital infrastructure. besides, over eur 200 million are being invested to support a new initiative in key thematic areas: energy, governance, education, health and agriculture. we also have the european union external investment plan adopted in september 2017, which can support digital solutions for local needs. thanks to its financial arm – the european fund for sustainable development – it helps secure private investment. so far, two projects have been selected for a total of eur 175 million. lastly, the european union, in collaboration with the united nations conference on trade and development, is preparing the first africa e—commerce week in december. the objective is to trigger policy harmonisation for an african single digital market and to engage with the local private sector. now, looking towards the future, the commission will continue in the context of the next multiannual financial framework to support developments through ambitious digital policies, with a strong focus on youth. we will also prioritise digital education skills and technical and vocational training to ensure the labour offer matches market demand. we also wish to strengthen our political dialogue with partner countries and regional organisations – in particular the african union – to promote good governance and an investment-friendly climate. we will also strengthen the actions of our eu delegations, notably by setting up a network of contact points on d4d. to conclude, in the light of our discussion, we can all agree that we have reached a pivotal moment. together with the eu member states, the european financial institutions, the private sector and civil society, we have the opportunity to truly influence the impact of digital transformation worldwide. in this endeavour, the commission is confident that the european parliament will keep momentum and remain a strong partner. thank you for your attention. i would also like to congratulate you, rapporteur, on being elected mayor – i wish you good luck and a lot of success, for the benefit of the citizens of your city.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. of course, education is a passport to life in order to tackle poverty. we all agree that resources must be increased. the question is how to implement it. because the bottom line is that the resources are very often there but the policies are not implemented properly, and we have examples of allocating funds to non-governmental organizations, which are not making the best use of the money they receive. i think that we must be much more decisive at this point and, of course, intensify the checks. on the other hand, of course, the strengthening of education, and in particular higher education, is crucial for african countries. it is only in this way that there can be development, so that the inhabitants of africa can remain in africa and so that migration can be curtailed.
madam president, a short while ago the house rejected my proposal and the proposal of the ecr group for a special debate on the murder of konstantinos katsifa by the albanian police and to discuss, at the same time, the violation of the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus. the european parliament's plenary session threw the ball into the ring. i think that's not the way to go about it. the murderers of konstantinos katsifas must be revealed and i think that eurojust, in cooperation with the athens prosecutor's office, should investigate who murdered konstantinos katsifas because he was a greek citizen; was a citizen of the european union. the european parliament, in a special committee, must also examine the violation of the rights of the greek minority in northern europe, because all its rights are being violated. this is ethnic cleansing. the transport of kosovars and settlers is being carried out in order to clean up the area. at the same time, the message must be sent that albania has no place in the european union.
madam president, this multiannual financial framework is also marked by the priorities of european business groups, in competition with american, chinese and other groups, and their flexibility in the face of crises that you expect, always at the expense of the people. the reduction in the funds for the common agricultural policy, which is of course not harmful to large farmers but to small ones, the increased subsidization of business groups, priority sectors in global competition and the neighbourhood policy, with the union's intervention in africa at the top, are characteristic. the roadmap for labour rights, the european social pillar and the fight against extreme poverty mean more subsidies for businesses, the generalisation of flexible working and working until death for pensioners. the principle of unanimity is being abolished, military spending and repression are being steadily strengthened, as are european union intervention mechanisms such as non-governmental organisations to promote the union's anti-people fundamental principles, and new anti-people taxes are being planned to strengthen the union's own resources. the conclusion is that new woes await the peoples. the way out is their struggle against the european union and the monopolies.
mr president, at the paris climate conference, the european union was the force that led the world community to a necessary agreement. but now, revolutionary policies are needed to implement it. i think we need to devote at least 30% of the next budget to climate action to give the necessary impetus to the shift towards a sustainable economy. we also need to create a genuine revenue system for the union, based on the 'polluter pays' principle, not only for those who pollute the environment and burden the climate but also for those who do not contribute their fair share. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these policies will have a great consequence. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
mr president, in prioritising the new 2020-2027 budget, i would like to put tackling climate change as our first priority, because it is about protecting people. i call on commissioner oettinger and all my colleagues here in the european parliament today to support together the proposal to set up the just energy transition fund with a budget of eur 4.8 billion. it concerns coal-dependent areas. in my country, greece, it is the region of western macedonia and the region of megalopolis. workers depend on the lignite deposits. societies depend on the deposits of lignite. we must immediately send a very strong message that the gradual decarbonisation, in addition to being essential for people's lives, will be done without leaving behind unemployed people and without excluding anyone whose job today depends on coal. it will be done fairly and with the support of the european union.
mr president, the energy union of the european union should first of all create a situation which does not exacerbate social and economic inequalities within the union itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they need common principles. but all this must be done in accordance with the responsibilities of the member states, because, as we see, through the governance of the energy union the commission and brussels are in fact seeking to take over responsibilities which belong to the member states. this is unacceptable and, of course, contrary to the treaty itself. the powers of the member states in the field of energy must therefore be maintained. there is unity in diversity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, today more than ever we need a directive to promote the use of renewable energy sources. the use of renewable energy sources will contribute to the development of the energy independence of the european union and our countries. it will increase security and make us less vulnerable to foreign and external suppliers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. however, in order to do so, it is necessary to allow member states to exhaust all available tools. in greece we need a wide liberalisation of the energy market, a regulatory framework to link renewable energy to existing water infrastructure so that it can be used as storage, and we also need synergies with local communities so that renewable energy can eventually become the main source of energy, especially on the islands. the european union needs an integrated approach from national, regional and local authorities to boost the clean energy and jobs that are so necessary in all member states.
mr president, renewable energy sources can indeed contribute to environmental protection. but beyond that, standards are required. i have repeatedly denounced the environmental crime being committed in south carinthia, on mount ocha, where 42 wind farms with a total capacity of 700 mw will be installed. you realize this is a huge environmental intervention. a region that has joined the natura network and in which these wind farms are now being built at a much higher rate than in other regions of greece. this is because south carinthia is virtually next to athens and so it is easy to transport the electricity produced. but this environmental disaster cannot continue. i have raised this matter repeatedly. we are waiting to see when, finally, the commission will refer greece to the european court of justice, because the commission itself has stated, since november 2017, that it will refer greece for breach of environmental conditions.
mr president, while the european parliament is debating and voting on a report on the protection of minority rights, it is at the same time rejecting my proposal and the proposal of the ecr to hold a debate yesterday on the murder of konstantinos katsifa by the albanian police and on the rights of the greek national minority in northern europe. the european parliament has thus missed a great opportunity to send a message of support to the greek minority in northern europe. he missed the opportunity to send a message to rama: to unite and stop oppressing the greek ethnic minority of northern epirus. the european parliament has missed the opportunity to silence rama and the albanian authorities, to ask them to comply with their obligations and to send the message that if they continue to violate the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus, then the road to europe is closed.
mr president, madam chancellor, you have associated your name with the management of two crises that have destabilised the european structure: the economic crisis in the euro area and the migration crisis. in both cases you have preferred unilateral decisions and transnational solutions, with a departure from the european acquis. we cannot, madam chancellor, have common hope unless we share common fears. but in your time, fears have multiplied, with the only beneficiaries being the far right and the anti-europeanists. i want to ask you, as a greek, if you have any regrets about your handling of my country's economic crisis. my generation is very much aware of the responsibilities of the domestic political system. but you are also responsible for the fact that half a million greek young people have left greece because they cannot find work, because our country has very big demographic problems and because even today, after many years of memoranda and commitments, we have not seen the greek economy really change in a more positive direction.
mr president, mrs merkel, with your political career so far and your actions as chancellor of germany you have proved that you are one of the protagonists of the so-called globalisation and have contributed greatly to the aggravation of the ills that afflict europeans today. no one can forget your statements, in which you called for millions of illegal immigrants and so-called refugees to enter europe without permission. no one forgets that you led the attack against the traditional values of our societies and, above all, against the very concept of the nation. you have consciously tried to replace the nation states with a multitude of supranational organizations, which in fact serve the interests only of the big multinational corporations, which you yourself have served and continue to serve faithfully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, everyone can see that you are trying to seize almost all of the greek public assets for the benefit of the creditors and the banks. but fortunately, your era is fast approaching its end. soon, new political forces will repair the damage you have caused and undo your harmful policies. you, again, will see this change as a private citizen and i hope then, eventually, you will reconsider.
mr president, i would like to say to the chancellor that i listened carefully to her speech. madam chancellor, you said ‘tolerance’15 times. that’s very good. you said ‘solidarity’ ten times. that’s very good. but you never said one word, ‘austerity’. you know that austerity policies are undermining democracy in europe. they are provoking anger, frustration and insecurity. this is why the extreme left is rising. your policies are, unfortunately, creating a frankenstein. we need europe. we need more europe, but we need more social europe and we need more justice in europe. that is how we will have democracy.
mr president, madam chancellor, you have mentioned the future of europe, and i am trying to identify which europe you are talking about. for the one you have destroyed - the results are visible every day - with your own enormous responsibility? i will not mention what you have done, because everyone knows it. i'll confine myself to what you did to my country, greece. in your desire to steal greece's wealth, you have destroyed the economy and impoverished the greek people. the ancient greeks, madam chancellor, when they wanted to refer to someone who realized that he had done something wrong and wanted to make amends, they used the phrase "you bite and heal" (he who has hurt and wounded you, he will heal you). if you really feel the crime you committed against greece and want to cure it, you should reduce the burden of our country's debt by adding the funds from the occupation loan and war reparations. if you do not do this, you will often remember, because of the determination and the reaction of the greek people, the poem entitled 'damn the greeks', which some say - without being sure of this - was composed by your great compatriot, the poet friedrich schiller.
i would like to point out, mr president, that my position on moldova is completely negative, and that is because moldova has recognized skopje as an alleged 'macedonia'. the european union has a duty to help the people of moldova to find a way to live in peace and security. it is certain that the greek people do not want their european path, just because they recognize skopje as a so-called 'macedonia', which means misappropriation of our macedonia's name and our history. this, in principle, will apply to any country that recognises skopje as an alleged 'macedonia'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, other parameters must be considered, such as what needs to be done about the internal situation and what changes need to be made. the question of greek assets in georgia must also be settled.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the fifth report of the european parliament on the common position on arms exports. of course, the data we have so far is that the european union, at 27%, is the second largest arms exporter in the world after the united states. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was estimated to be around 10% in the investigation period. everyone knows that the actual sales are more than the official figures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind, and that the arms industry is not left behind. european arms sold to saudi arabia and the united arab emirates are being used in yemen and elsewhere. european arms are going to terrorist organizations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, every state has the right to legal defense and to self-defence. in this context, it is logical that a state would want to be able to acquire military technology and create and maintain a defence industry. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in the context of the european union's external policy. but when we talk about arms sales, things are different. weapons are capable of creating or sustaining a war. they have an impact on migration and can also be used to violate human rights. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. it is also the second largest arms exporter. the european union itself is therefore breaking the rules it has set itself by wanting to sell arms. for example, it supplies arms to states in the middle east and africa. it is giving arms to turkey, which is using them to oppress its own people and violate their human rights, and it is also possible that it will use them against the armed forces of european union countries - such as cyprus and greece - which is prohibited. the same is true of arms sales to saudi arabia, which is using them against yemen and has created a humanitarian crisis. so if we are going to vote on the report on the implementation of the common policy, we should not vote on the eight criteria, because otherwise we will be formalizing the... (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, convergence of member states' arms export policies is a declared objective of the european union, and there are criteria such as respect for human rights, regional security and stability, avoiding the risk of dispersal of defence materials and preventing a crisis in the immediate vicinity. but in the end, there is a huge amount of bilingualism. apply these criteria to the case of turkey, to which the member states of the european union sell arms. turkey does not respect human rights. turkey is threatening greece and cyprus. turkey holds 37% of the republic of cyprus and yet the export of european arms to turkey continues. so, then, it is a clear-cut bilingualism. the same applies to saudi arabia, which has the privilege of buying arms from european industries while slaughtering the yemeni people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the competition rules are applied in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim, of course, as has been analysed, is to support consumer rights. i would like to mention a serious issue of lack of competition in greece in air ticket prices, where aegean is now effectively a monopoly. the prices it charges for air transport from crete and the other islands to central greece, and especially athens, are excessive. it's cheaper to go from athens to berlin than it is to go from heraklion in crete to athens. the situation is intolerable and i think it is time for the competition commission to check aegean because it has a monopoly position on the market, and i would like you, the commissioner responsible, to look into the matter.
madam president, in this chamber we are demanding that there be a check on the financial system. we demand transparency and control in the european central bank, the national central banks and the other banks. it is now a given that we have succeeded to some extent. but is it possible to leave an entire sector, cryptocurrencies, unchecked and untransparent and, in effect, to allow a process through which tax evasion, tax avoidance, money laundering and complete opacity are legitimized? because that 's what this is about: cryptocurrencies along with blockchain are essentially doing exactly that, and there should be control. the european union cannot be indifferent and we need very specific legislation. it is a given that the process through cryptocurrencies actually facilitates money laundering and we must act decisively.
mr president, the new order is aimed at redistributing populations, rather than at redistributing the wealth produced. it is therefore creating a reserve army which, through immigration, will go to the developed countries in order to reduce wages. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i think is a very good one. in practice, we are in fact being led to abolish the right of the member states and of states generally to determine which populations will reside on their territory, because a right to immigrate is being created. some have said that the pact is not legally binding. then why bother if some state doesn 't sign it ? secondly, you say that there is a protection of national sovereignty. does not the non-signing of the covenant fall within the framework of the national sovereignty of a state? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave the european union.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. while the wounds inflicted on europe by the invasion of millions of legal and - mainly - illegal immigrants are still fresh, there are some who dream of global cooperation to deal with the so-called problem of migration. i shall not be tempted to analyse the text, because this is more of a literary character. i would also like to point out that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i would like to ask the council to take them up. as a greek mep, whose fellow citizens are fighting to prevent their cultural, racial, national and religious identity from being destroyed by illegal immigration, i will do everything in my power and everything necessary to ensure that this obsessive and destructive effort by the european union does not succeed.
mr president, let us stress once again that migration is not a natural phenomenon. it is caused by poverty, which is also not a natural phenomenon. so we have to tackle poverty to stop immigration and, most importantly, illegal immigration. refugees come because there are wars. let us fight for peace in order to limit the number of refugees. greece is under enormous pressure, with thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. all of them are using the existing procedure, abusing the right to asylum and staying for at least three years in greece until their asylum case is heard. let us not forget that the court of justice, in its judgment in case c-386/16, stated that the granting of visas on humanitarian grounds is a possibility for states and not an obligation. in fact, there is a very important example where christians from aleppo had gone to belgium and applied for visas on humanitarian grounds. so you see, we must not simply create a new incentive, whereby rich illegal immigrants will cross for supposedly humanitarian reasons into europe, while poor illegal immigrants will simply try to cross illegally.
madam president, what is the european union really trying to achieve with the new legislation on electronic communications? does he want broadband infrastructure, radio spectrum and, in general, the enormous development of science and technology to reduce the burden on workers and improve their lives? quite the opposite! it wants to guarantee investment and ensure the profitability of european monopolies in competition with rival monopolies in china, the united states and india. that's why it's completely liberating the market. it privatizes what is left of the state and gives them all the public infrastructure and the popular property. the people and the youth have had a bitter experience of the consequences of market liberalisation. their access to traditional electronic communications will remain expensive, while their access to new technologies, services and products will be virtually impossible. workers will be able to enjoy the free advances of science and technology, as long as they get rid of the monopolies, the unions and the power of these to live the life they deserve and can live.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. it is therefore obvious that measures must be taken to limit emissions of polluting gases. this must also be done in the transport sector, where 70% of land transport is carried out by heavy vehicles. the first objective must therefore be to reduce the number of cases. but i can see that the target is very ambitious. i think we need to have a more balanced and more balanced transition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the sector, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the fight against malicious attacks by third parties within the european union must of course be a joint one. but there are various sides and ways of manipulating fraud and, of course, the body that will be elected in the next european elections is being altered or attempts are being made to alter it. i am referring to the guarantees of pluralism that must exist. in this room, i have denounced more than ten times that in greece, both public television and the large systematic private channels have silenced our movement "greece - the other way". we are not given the opportunity to express our views and this is a set-up through which we have been silenced. we want to have intervention and support on this issue, so that we have the right to participate on equal terms in the european elections, because if we are silenced there is no democratic process in greece and we are not given the opportunity to express our views. since you have referred to an intervention in greece, mrs jourová, could you please explain what the electoral intervention in greece is that you have referred to in your speech?
in writing. six months from now, european citizens will go to the polls to elect a new european parliament, a new commission. they will be called upon to lead europe into a new era of challenges, opportunities and threats. the stakes are high and some will try to undermine the electoral process by spreading fake news, by reinforcing populist and anti-european voices and by fomenting nationalism. the success of these will not only be the emergence of populist and anti-european forces, but also the low participation rate of european citizens. the answer to those who want to see a weakened europe is greater citizen participation. the strengthening of democracy. democracy and participation go together and to increase participation we must empower the personal choice of every european citizen. the election of the next meps in the member states must be based on direct election of meps and not on a list election. we believe in the unification of europe. we must have a common electoral system.
mr president, i take it for granted that in the effort, both by the member states and by the european institutions, to reduce emissions of polluting gases in the union, passenger and freight transport by rail plays a very important role. in addition, rail is a safer and faster mode of transportation, which is usually cheaper and more accessible, especially for the weaker economic classes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. coordination between airlines should also be achieved to ensure connections and responses in reasonable timescales to serve passengers and facilitate their travel. finally, we must take seriously the areas where the rail link, although not economically viable for the companies, must be maintained so that the inhabitants of remote areas are not cut off.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the transport of dangerous goods. in the committee on petitions we have received dozens of complaints and protests from disabled people who do not have access to railways. i think that with what we are discussing and what we are going to decide, we will really contribute to the accessibility of rail transport for disabled people. i think it is important, of course, that there should be places for bicycles, because the bicycle is now used by so many citizens. the imposition of compensation to consumers in the event of cancellations or delays must be on the agenda, since various railway undertakings are trying by various tricks - allegedly under the force majeure clause - to avoid paying compensation to consumers. there, we must be decisive as to the measures we take.
in writing. the rights of train passengers in the eu are currently fragmented, making rail transport less attractive to the general public. the creation of a harmonised framework of rights for rail passengers across europe and ensuring a high level of protection for all passengers without exception is an imperative need in order to achieve growth in rail transport, while at the same time improving the protection of passenger rights. the new legislation modernises rail passengers' rights and protects consumers more effectively by providing them with a framework of rights similar to that applicable to air transport. better service for people with reduced mobility is ensured and clear complaint handling procedures are provided, with higher compensation in case of delays. in particular, passengers will be able to claim compensation equivalent to 50% of the ticket price for a delay of 60-90 minutes, 75% for a delay of more than 1.5 hours and 100% for delays of more than 3 hours. in greece, which has one of the smallest railway networks in europe, the railway market still has considerable scope for growth. therefore, investment should be encouraged and better connectivity between european countries promoted, which, combined with affordable prices, will significantly enhance the competitiveness of the railway sector.
the regulation under discussion, madam president, is in line with the stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants and is essentially based on it. these pollutants are toxic chemicals of extreme importance, affecting the health of all people. however, while we are discussing this regulation, it is clear that: firstly, no stakeholder consultation was carried out in order to draw up the regulation, secondly, no external experts were used, and thirdly, no impact assessment was carried out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that these procedures should have been carried out because they are essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the image i have of mr georgiou is that of an excellent scientist and technocrat, who has fallen victim to circumstances and political court games. a section of society blamed him, in the midst of the crisis, for forcing greece into a loan programme, because he allegedly changed the data. greece had been forced into a loan program before mr. georgiou finalized the statistics. unfortunately, by remaining in the euro, we have not - for reasons of political cost - made the necessary reforms, as other countries have done, and as a result we have become over-indebted and stuck in a dead end. countries with problems less severe than ours, such as ireland, portugal and cyprus, were also obliged to enter into a loan programme and implement the memorandum. so it's not mr. georgiou's fault that our problems are still going on because of the 2015 crisis. there are, of course, judicial officers who see things differently. it is enough to recall that the former chairwoman of the high council, who is now an adviser to prime minister tsipras, had sent a letter to mr juncker denouncing the loan programme. what we can and must do for mr georgiou is to insist that his legal adventure be ended and to make sure that the legal costs of the proceedings are passed on to the greek public, as has already been decided. i therefore think that mr george's court adventures must be brought to an end. in my opinion, the routes that are bothering him are underground. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the issue of the artificial inflation of the 2009 public deficit proved to be crucial in order for the government of george papandreou to be able to legitimize and launch the accession of greece to the international monetary fund and the memoranda. thus, while the karamanlis government in september 2009 had set the public deficit at 6%, the papandreou government, after the election victory of pasok in october 2009, set it at 12,7%. what was the result? to undermine the country's borrowing position. to launch a debt crisis and to lead greece into the arms of the troika, which for eight years has impoverished the greek people, slashed wages and pensions and raised the debt from 115% of gdp to 180%. the evidence of the artificial enlargement of the deficit also exposes the european union itself, as it proves that the memorandum was imposed when it was not necessary for greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a bargaining chip. the case of georgios has been a subject of concern in the greek criminal courts, where he has appeared as a defendant. the greek judiciary is independent and the european parliament has no power to interfere. the whole discussion is being held with the sole purpose of internationalizing the new criminal case against mr georgiou, since a new criminal prosecution has been brought. fellow judges, if you want to help mr. georgiou, go as defense witnesses at his trial instead of talking politics here. go to the criminal courts and defend him as witnesses, those who think that mr. georgiou is right.
question with a blue card. mr president, there is an independent greek judiciary. you said that a new criminal prosecution has already been launched against mr. george. from what you've said, it seems you believe in mr. george's innocence. so i ask you: will you go to the greek courts to testify as a witness for mr. georgiou ? it's the only way you can help him. you can be a defense witness at his trial. you will ? because, in practice, that is the only way you can help. otherwise, all the political discussion here means interference in greek criminal justice.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the deficit in 2009 was 15.1% and not 6% - as the government of the new republic told us with false figures and "cooked-up" statistics - and that was the fault of the governors of the time, not mr georgiou. i am glad that the council and the commission, as well as eurostat, the eurogroup and the esm, confirm that today and in all the years since 2010 greek public statistics are absolutely reliable. it was confirmed by mr ferber, by mr radermacher when he came to speak to us in the european parliament, and by mrs kotzeva, who said that the 'cooked-up' figures and deficits belong to the period when new democracy and pasok ruled the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. those who today try to exploit the legal adventures that are afflicting mr georgiou to harm my country, greece, only succeed in reminding us of the fiscal derailment and the false statistics, madam president, ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
madam president, the case of andreas georgiou of the greek statistical office is not just a criminal or even disciplinary breach of duty. on the one hand, george bears the gravest moral responsibilities that no court has jurisdiction to judge, and on the other, he had to protect the state and greek interests. however, he chose to obey his masters, inside and outside greece. the greek people are not interested in him as a person, but in the position he served and, above all, in the work and the result produced. the result was the artificial inflation of the deficit in 2009, which led greece into a vortex of memoranda, impoverishment, sell-off and misery. it must be understood that an independent national authority remains national and accountable to the respective state. the staff of the independent authorities remain employees of the national authorities. they are not on an off-site assignment and are not employees of the lenders or of any european institution. the political responsibility of the greek governments of new democracy, pasok, syriza and anel in this matter is real and constitutes a national betrayal. a patriotic government will lead the political accountable to the dock, because in the rotten political system of greece, a crow does not leave a crow's eye.
question with a blue card. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. so i ask you: which party was it that, in 2009, showed the "cooked" statistics? if mr. georgiou was right to calculate the deficit at 15.1%, who was in government in 2009 and showed here fake statistics that said 6%?
question with a blue card. mr. tremosa, i want to give you a frank account of the facts. the new democracy government, in september 2009, said the deficit was 6%. pasok won the elections on 4 october 2009. on october 19, 2009, the minister of finance, mr. papakonstantinou, went to the eurogroup and said that the deficit is 12.7%. and i ask you: do you think it is serious, that in ten days a new finance minister has the data and raises the deficit to that percentage? that is the key question. mr. georgiou was appointed in august 2010, i'm asking you about 2009. is it possible that within ten days the government could change the rate without having the opinion of elstat? watch it, now! these are the real incidents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greek people have paid a heavy price for the falsification of the statistics of the greek economy by the greek authorities and eurostat. these falsified statistics were used by the commission. i have a lot of questions, commissioner, from that period, where the commissioners are basically admitting it. the political games played with statistics paved the way for the imposition of the troika's policies of social degradation. in 2010, the president of elstat, mr georgiou, in breach of national legislation and the existing european framework of national accounts, added - mr ferber, i would ask you this - the balance sheets of 17 public bodies without the necessary conditions, with the consequence of further inflating the deficit and applying stricter austerity policies than the memoranda. the troika now comes to the prerequisites of the third memorandum and reiterates the demand that the greek judiciary should intervene, that the greek government should intervene and acquit mr georgiou, as they do in other cases of their people - such as the people in taiped - who have proved to be damaging to the national interest. the greek people are asking for this matter to be dealt with, dear friends, and for the memorandum policy and the surveillance with these elements and these policies to be stopped. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question with a blue card. i was a member of the european parliament in the previous term, when this subject was discussed at length in the european parliament's plenary, and in general the question of statistics and, finally, the question of the reliability of eurostat. it turned out that eurostat was receiving falsified data - i can say for each use - from other countries, not just from greece. secondly, the commission's irresponsibility in relation to such a situation was widespread. on the subject of greece, eurostat covered mr georgiou ex post. i would also like to ask you: do you know whether in your country the balance sheets of the public sector enter into the general government deficit statistics, and under what conditions? conditions which mr. georgiou has not fulfilled? do you see what the problem is?
mr president, in 2009 the budget deficit in greece was running out of control. the conservative government was falsely reporting a 6% deficit, and we reached 15% by the end of the year. with the intervention of the commission, greece changed the leadership of the statistical authority, mr andreas georgiou took over and very soon the phrase "greek statistics" ceased to mean illegal activity. the european parliament, in may 2014, explicitly acknowledged this mishandling in its report on the greek crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the commission's proposals. the greek government must voluntarily defend andreas georgiou, both for himself and to send the message that no official who does his job properly will be left defenseless.
mr president, the case of greece was a punitive procedure. a message from the financial system that it is all-powerful and above institutions and all democratic control. in the georgiou case, the greek judiciary tried and is trying to reveal the truth and to overturn the false image of greece that has been created. since this case did not develop as they had hoped, the ostensibly democratic european institutions demanded that mr georgios be acquitted of all charges, in the midst of the judicial investigation, thus openly interfering in the functioning of the greek judiciary. and to avoid similar problems for their willing elected representatives in the future, they demanded and secured the criminal and civil immunity of the members of the new colonial decentralization fund, as a basic condition for the completion of the country's evaluation, which the current government has accepted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. we must not wonder what it is that is throwing water on the mill on the far right.
mr president, the seizure of the rich energy reserves, which lie underground and under the sea in greece, has always been the aim of the institutions of international capital and the european union. at the same time, greece had to be sacrificed to save the euro and the german and french banks. in order for this to happen, the greek economy had to be destroyed and the president of elstat, mr georgiou, was used as a tool. according to the complaint of two of his subordinates, he inflated the deficit in greece with false information, resulting in the country being placed under a memorandum regime, its economy being destroyed, its wealth being plundered and its people suffering. of course, the greek judiciary intervened and mr georgiou was charged with a crime. but the damage to the national interest had already been done. that is why the european union establishment is so passionately defending it.
mr president, we shall not go into the details of the georgie-elstat case. but it is provocative. thousands of people who do not have to pay taxes and loans are condemned in greece, but none of their cases have been brought here, to the "temple of european democracy". but mr. george is being discussed for a photo-exemption order. you're cutting for independent authorities, like statistics. what a hypocrite! you cook them up with your instructions and make them tools of your anti-people policy. i wonder how objective it is that anyone who works half an hour a week is not considered unemployed? you're cut out for independent justice. it's a joke! when you don't like decisions, you ask for legislative intervention. you demanded, and syriza gave you, memorandum laws for the advance and retrospective - for those who were prosecuted - criminal immunity of taiped executives for transfers of public property of billions of euros to private persons. so is it with the loan-sharking of business tycoons, while you auction off thousands of people's homes and ban strikes. you're just justifying the kke.
mr. president, a few days ago, president trump announced his decision to withdraw his country from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty. this treaty, signed in 1987 by gorbachev and reagan, is very important because it is legally binding and three thousand nuclear missiles have been destroyed in the course of its implementation. but with the withdrawal of the united states from that treaty, as well as from the iran nuclear treaty, the danger of an increase in nuclear weapons arming by all nuclear powers is increasing. the united states has the ability to strengthen its nuclear arsenal. russia wants to remain in the treaty, but feels threatened. and if it decides to include nuclear weapons in its strategic planning, there will be adverse developments. all the countries of europe will be affected, and germany in particular.
mr president, trump's decision to withdraw from the nuclear weapons control treaty demonstrates how dangerously the rivalries between the imperialist centers are escalating. this is not some mindless action by trump, but a reflection of nato's "first strike" doctrine and the recent meeting to upgrade its nuclear strategy. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it shows how far every imperialist is willing to go for his interests, even in war. it is proving how dangerous the decision of the syriza-anel government and mr tsipras, his friend "the devil's good" trump as he calls him, to turn all of greece into a vast american-eastern base and to transfer special weapons, even nuclear weapons, to its territory, as in araxos, is for the people. the peace and the lives of the peoples are immediately threatened by the interests of the great powers. their struggle against nato and the european union is a condition for their survival.
mr president, at a time when the world is full of poor unemployed people and when vast wealth is being produced but, of course, not distributed fairly, we have the intensity of international competition. the united states of america, china and russia are competing for the planet. it is now logical that they will no longer be bound by any of their so-called nuclear agreements. mr. trump has withdrawn from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, the chinese are ramping up their weapons, and so is russia. unfortunately, the planet is at the mercy of these competing forces. i believe that a huge movement for global disarmament must be started. that must be our aim: a worldwide ban on nuclear weapons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, as we all know, last month a caravan of some seven thousand migrants, starting from honduras, finally reached the border with the united states of america in search of better living conditions. there is no doubt that the living conditions in the central american countries, as in many other countries, are not the best. but this does not mean that the inhabitants of these countries should leave en masse and try to invade the nearest prosperous country. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the countries of the community. but the us government has done the obvious: it has controlled its borders - unlike us - and it controls the flows of these migrants. if we are really interested - beyond the hypocritical humanism of the left - in these people, we must work together to create the right living conditions in their own country. to live and prosper there and not to flee to other countries.
madam president, first of all, we must not exaggerate the role of iran, but certainly not that of the united states. it is clear that the us and the eu have opposing political, economic and military interests in the case of iran. it is clear that the european union - and france in particular - has made substantial investments in iran, in the automobile industry and in energy issues with total. the key point, however, is that the us sanctions against iran have extraterritorial application, that is, they are applied against european companies that do not follow the united states sanctions. it is clear that this is the logic of the global 'policeman' that the united states has, which thinks it can do whatever it wants. it is a neo-colonial concept and practice. the european union must react. the blocking statute is a first measure, but there must be countermeasures by the european union against the united states in order to stop this extraterritorial intervention by the united states.
madam president, the re-imposition of the united states of america's sanctions against iran affects important and crucial sectors of the iranian economy, such as oil exports, the automobile industry, air transport and, above all, the trade of european companies with their iranian counterparts. in this sense, the european union would urge european companies that do business with iranian companies to disregard these united states sanctions. but i cannot see how the european union can guarantee the protection of the interests of these companies. there must be cooperation with the united states and an agreement with iran so that the united states is convinced that the contacts and support of the european union with iran are not against the interests of the united states. the european union should also consider imposing sanctions on american companies if things go too far.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, two years after the adoption of my report on domestic and care workers, we are still waiting for a legislative initiative in the care sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we have worked with sirpa pietikäinen to take another step towards the recognition and regulation of the care sector. i hope that this time my colleagues will not turn their backs on the millions of workers in this sector who care for our loved ones and who, unfortunately, often remain in the dark at work while we go out into the light in search of our personal and professional development. so what do we need to bring this invisible class of workers into the light? the first is the regulation and recognition of the profession at european level. secondly, bold european investment in community-based care structures. thirdly, the strengthening of the fragmented welfare state. fourthly, programmes for training, support and skills development of care staff. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. but we have to climb it, not just look at it. it's not going to get any smaller. it's time to take care of the personal care staff. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of our report.
the european union and industry's strategy for a work-life balance for women, mr president, is aimed at increasing their flexibility and their exploitation. behind the inexpensive wishes in the report, care for the family and the elderly, instead of being a social right and responsibility, is being turned into an individual matter that is more or less shared between women and men. it is even proposed that women should be withdrawn from work in order to take care of family members in return for a subsidy. the dismantling and commercialisation of family support infrastructure and services and state daycare centres, the european union and the syriza-anel government call them 'an essential network of public and private structures' with the working popular family being burdened with unbearable burdens for the obvious. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. the commission has also recently, with the seal of the court of justice of the european union, legalized the dismissal of pregnant women. the women of the working classes, with their class struggle and social liberation from the shackles of the exploitative system, must make their equality and emancipation a reality. they can!
mr president, we are discussing a serious matter which has a direct bearing on the care of both the elderly and children. a subject that concerns modern society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elderly are not left behind in the world of work, and that the social partners are not left behind. the data show that 80% of care is provided by unpaid informal carers, 75% of whom are women. at the same time, 27.5% of this proportion of women work part-time in order to be able to care for the children. the right combination of work and care services must therefore be provided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in greece, over 35 000 children have been left out of day care this year. it is clear that concrete measures must be taken and tax incentives must be given and, of course, the farmer must also be supported so that she too can have plenty of time, since she is very busy with childcare.
mr president, the debate has shown that lyme disease or borreliosis is a dangerous bacterial disease, caused by the bite of a tick infected with this bacterium. it affects humans and animals, and the fact that we have 850 000 cases a year shows how serious this issue is. it is an occupational disease which affects farmers and forestry workers alike, and i think that we must now take concrete steps because the methods of treatment must be strengthened. there should be an exchange of best practice between member states. in addition, training of doctors and the use of clinical tests are required. at the same time, i think that money should be given for further research in this area, so that the disease, which is particularly dangerous - according to the world health organization - can be treated as it is transmitted from mother to fetus. i think that very specific measures are needed.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 15 october 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on vietnam, in particular the situation of political prisoners (2018/2925 ((rsp)).
mr president, vietnam is the new eldorado. the corporations are having a party. they have made investments, they have made use of the starving wages of vietnam and, of course, they have made huge profits. that is why there is tolerance for the lack of protection of labour rights in vietnam and - much more - tolerance now for repression, violation of human rights, sentencing of activists and mistreatment of detainees who do not even have access to a lawyer. the fact is that the vietnamese penal code is not even compatible with international standards and, of course, the oppression has extended to the christian populations. the european union must not be allowed to continue to use the death penalty in the name of the people of europe. we cannot have this privileged treatment, with european union cooperation instruments and free trade, and let this situation continue in vietnam.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in cuba (2018/2926 (rsp)).
the list of registered speakers is complete. we're moving on to the catch-the-eye procedure. we have a problem of time pressure, because it is thursday today and the voting must start at 12 noon. i've received six requests, all from the same political group. four of the six colleagues have already spoken this morning in the catch-the-eye procedure, so - and for lack of time - i shall accept only the two requests from colleagues who have not used the catch-the-eye procedure.
my decision on the catch-the-eye is final and please let's not waste any more time on this subject. mr faria, you have the floor. please refer to the rule under which you are requesting a statement of the reasons for the procedure.
mr. faria, i don't want you to break the rules. you don't have the floor. we're all freely elected but, under the rules, the speaker has the right to choose how to use the catch-the-eye procedure. i remind you that there are times when you don't get the speech based on catch-the-eye. i have explained earlier that for four of the six requests, all six from the same political group, the right of catch-the-eye was used this morning. i would ask you to respect the time and the fact that we have one more debate and the vote must begin at 12 noon.
thank you so much for respecting my decision. you know very well - for this is not the first time i have presided over this - that whenever we have time i accept all requests, even if they are more than five. this time i ask you to respect my decision, because you all know very well that all the arguments have been heard from all sides with complete ease. there's not a single argument that hasn't been heard. (end of the catch-the-eye procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in bangladesh (2018/2927 ((rsp)).
the list of registered speakers is complete. we're moving on to the catch-the-eye procedure. i've accepted seven requests. normally, provided that the votes begin at 12 noon, i should only accept the two of them who have not spoken through the catch-the-eye procedure. i am informed by my colleagues in the services that the conference of presidents has not yet concluded. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, bangladesh is a paradise for multinationals: over-exploitation of workers, over-profits, starvation wages, no regulation and no protection for workers. we had the rana plaza case, with 1,127 dead and 2,500 injured - all workers - because the health and safety standards for workers were not respected. and, of course, we're now moving into an authoritarian regime. there is no freedom of expression, activists are persecuted, they do not have a fair trial, and the death penalty has now started to be imposed, which must be abolished. at the same time, the rohingya themselves are now being attacked. we need labour rights, the right to associate and, of course, an end to the european union's preferential trade treatment of bangladesh, so that we can enforce compliance with the principles.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
mr president, mr prime minister, our discussion today is about the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union, at the moment, considers itself to be over the economic crisis and is looking forward to the days of growth. or that's how he wants to portray the situation. but in reality the union is at the beginning of a much greater crisis, and this is because the union's ruling elites are unable - or unwilling - to understand the vast distance that separates their own priorities from those of the european peoples. the new crisis will be a political crisis, but i hope it will bring to power forces which express the will of the people and not that of the multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. your country has a policy which is moving in the right direction and has largely succeeded in stopping the extra flows. unfortunately, i don't think that alone is enough. in addition, many other governments, including the greek, refuse to adopt similar policies despite the fact that these countries are entry points into the union. if the burning problems of citizens' daily lives are not addressed by nationally-minded governments, i unfortunately foresee very unstable days for the union.
mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the house. the way we deal with today's problems also predicts future developments. in view of this, i will ask you two questions. firstly, what is your position on tackling the serious problem of illegal immigration? you mentioned earlier that redistributing asylum seekers is not the solution. so you are in favour of the view that illegal immigrants should remain in the countries of entry? in other words, should italy and - above all - my country, greece, bear the brunt of the mistakes and tragic mistakes of the european union, which have exacerbated this problem, and become permanent camps for unhappy and impoverished people? the second question concerns the principle of unanimity. do you think that the abolition of this principle and - in effect - the devaluation of the power of the small countries' vote, such as yours, to create the two- and three-speed europe, is the ideal model and means for creating the europe of the future as envisioned by those who love their country and nation?
mr president, all i have to say to the friendly nation of serbs is that they should think very carefully before deciding to join the european union. serbia already has a developed industry and all the conditions to become a stable power in its region in the future. its economy is growing steadily after the difficult decades of the past, and it has every reason to look to the future with optimism. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. for every euro of financial aid the union gives, it also asks for a share of national independence. unfortunately, we in greece are now very well aware of the price of membership. we have seen in practice what european solidarity means when, during the economic crisis, the europeans tried - and still try - by every means to seize greek public property, while ignoring the suffering they have caused and are causing the greek people. the greeks will support any decision of serbia, as long as it is taken in accordance with the will of the serbian people and the interests of the country.
mr president, as mr mcallister's balanced report shows, serbia is making efforts to meet the requirements of the copenhagen criteria in order to become a member of the european union. it has an obligation to normalize relations with kosovo. this is an emotionally burdensome obligation for serbia, because we all know that kosovo is the cradle of serbian culture, it is the very heart of serbia. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former yugoslavia. it is, as we said, a challenge to serbia, and the biggest challenge is at the moment the 100% increase in customs duties on imports of products from serbia and bosnia. the european union must not only put pressure on serbia to change its policy towards russia, but also on kosovo. as a greek, i wish serbia's efforts to prosper and to join the european union on good terms.
mr president, major corruption, organized crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, the jihadists. this is a picture of kosovo, but also of albania in a different dimension. we are not saying that; you are saying it in your report. the european union is also committed to the development of the kosovo peace process, and to the peace process in kosovo. the expansion of your influence and that of nato - the syriza-anel government in greece, and the control of the balkan corridor against russia - is all that interests you, not your own criteria, nor, of course, the interests of the peoples. kosovo, a us-protectorate base built up by the bombings and the breakup of yugoslavia, continues to change borders to join greater albania, the beloved child of the americans, nato and the union, opening the door to territorial claims by others, such as the albanians for samaria and the turks for the aegean and western thrace. the 'divide and rule' which is fuelled by nationalism is a death threat to the peoples, who must respond with a coordinated struggle and resistance to your war plans, for real cooperation, security and peace.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i have repeatedly stated that i am against the prespa agreement because i believe it is a text that cannot be implemented. it creates ambiguities that don't resolve the differences, but rather highlight them. the amendments to the constitution passed by the skopje parliament are already in breach of the agreement, as the agreement's staunch supporter, former foreign minister kotzias, has pointed out. i have no doubt that the greek side will turn a blind eye to the fact that some people have invested their political survival in this agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, to take the result into account? not even 40% of the voters turned out. the citizens of fyrom have turned their backs on the agreement, despite the open propaganda of both the european commission and the council in favour of it. the only thing that matters is the immediate accession of the country to nato at all costs, at the expense of democracy and the peaceful coexistence of the peoples in the region.
the european parliament's report on fyrom, mr president, is another example of the european union's intervention in all areas, in conjunction with domestic interests and political forces. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the country - overnight - is transformed from unprepared to ready for integration. the reason is obvious: the report celebrates the country's accession to nato, on the basis of the unacceptable prespa agreement. that's why he signed it. the nato that dissolved yugoslavia is sowing its seeds of irredentism by 'dividing and reigning', changing borders (see kosovo) and being sold as a peacemaker by its flag-bearer, the syriza-anel government. the defence of the agreement is revealed, as are its nationalist opponents, who say nothing about nato and the european union, only misleadingly using the name. they are on the same dangerous side: the american-northern side. the kke opposes the report and calls on the peoples of the region to join forces in a concerted struggle against nato and the european union, which are sources of war and danger.
mr. president, zaev and his crew are continuing their redemptive challenges. in fact, in the new constitution of skopje, in article 36, the unambiguous references to the so-called "macedonia" and the so-called "macedonian people" continue. moreover, in the preamble to the new skopje constitution, reference is made to the declaration of the first meeting of asnom - the well-known anti-fascist assembly - in 1944, where, mr hahn, the right of self-determination of the so-called 'macedonian nation' and the so-called 'macedonian people' is explicitly mentioned and the abolition of the borders that supposedly separate, as asnom says, brother by brother and macedonia from macedonia is demanded. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity, and that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity, and that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, i welcome the report and also the references to the prespa agreement. this is an agreement for peace in the balkans. it is a model for solving international relations, and it also takes political courage by both mr tsipras and mr zaev to proceed, because do you know what is happening in greece? the nationalists and the extreme right and the neo-nazis are accusing the government of treason and now they are trying to mobilise secondary school students. you know the system, the main slogan of the mobilisation: democracy is selling out macedonia, they mean greek macedonia. democracy is betraying macedonia. that’s their slogan and those mobilisations are also supported – and i am referring to my colleagues from the popular party – those mobilisations of the extreme right are supported by new democracy. so you have to say to your cameras in new democracy not to play with fire.
the european parliament should not be under any illusions and, above all, should not express its wishes as reality. this model state, created only to serve the expansionist plans of a communist dictator, as well as the ideology of the so-called 'macedonianism' of its slavic inhabitants, will not enter the european union. even if at this moment in greece a treacherous government is trying to impose the prespes agreement, it will soon be a thing of the past, as will the agreement itself. all the rest of the report is irrelevant, since before they renounce any reference to the greek name of macedonia, there can be no further discussion. finally, since your satisfaction with the result of the referendum is mentioned in the text, the union's hypocrisy is striking, since you conveniently forget that the vast majority of citizens never came to vote. the prespes agreement is therefore a dead deal which will never be implemented, since both peoples are opposed to it and only berlin, brussels and their local subordinates support it.
the european union has also made a number of proposals to the council, which is the only body in the world that has been able to do so. it does not apply the principles of the rule of law and therefore grossly violates the rights of the greek minority in northern europe. moreover, the murder of aristotle goma in 2010 and, a month ago, of konstantinos katsifa, is the culmination of this situation. in fact, the albanian authorities went so far as to ask the parents of the deceased, the murdered, where they got the money to pay for his funeral. the albanian prime minister himself has insulted him, and every night, to terrorize his countrymen, they shoot at night and cut off the electricity supply to minority villages for 12 hours without any reason. the european union has already made a major contribution to the process of democratization in albania, and we are convinced that this will be a major step forward.
madam president, today marks one month since the assassination of konstantinos katsifa in northern epirus by the albanian police. the provocations, threats, intimidation and harassment by the albanian security forces continue daily against the greek national minority of northern epirus. an internationally recognized minority which, under the corfu protocol of 1914, has acquired the inalienable right of autonomy. in addition, despite the rhetoric of the european union, the seizure of the property of the northerners by the albanian authorities continues, and just yesterday edi rama attacked the meps themselves. the european union must therefore take action against albania and suspend all funding and all its accession process until it begins to respect the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus. i would like to say that the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and that it is a political force, and that it is a political force.
madam president, the report on albania is of particular importance in view of the opening of its accession negotiations to the european union in june 2019. i do not share the report's optimism, however, about the fight against corruption and organised crime in that country. the albanian side needs to do much more, particularly in relation to the cultivation and trafficking of drugs. the adverse discriminatory treatment of the greek minority, which has recently been characteristically manifested by the excessive and unnecessary use of lethal force by the albanian police to arrest konstantinos katsifa, must also be stopped. i do not see how a candidate country can be justified in refusing entry to meps, as in the case of elena theoharos. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the report.
madam president, the albanian state is responsible for the cold and premeditated murder of the greek north epirus, konstantinos katsifa. i cannot, as a greek mep, agree to any kind of assessment as long as edi rama, the moral perpetrator of the murder, has not been held accountable for this crime. moreover, as long as albania continues to oppress the greek minority, bully and threaten the northern epiros, demolish churches and try to eliminate the presence of hellenism in northern epiros, no good neighborhood can exist. albania itself has accepted the corfu protocol, which entitles the greek minority to autonomy. for over 100 years, albania has refused to comply. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the northern part of greece, which is a very important area for the future of the country. finally, the albanian government, through prime minister rama, showed how much it values the union and the institutions when it asked - in street language - how meps dare to express an opinion on albanian issues. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. as a child, i grew up with the images of the horrors of war in what was then a united yugoslavia. but today i am particularly pleased to see that these countries are steadily improving their position and are approaching the goal of joining the european union. however, despite the significant progress made in recent years, as reflected in the reports of both the commission and parliament, much remains to be done. efforts to consolidate the rule of law, transparency and institutional strengthening must be continuous. progress is also needed in the fight against chronic unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment. the government has shown a willingness to proceed with the necessary reforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am sure that if the uk's withdrawal from the eu is finally completed with brexit, then montenegro, if it continues at the same pace, will be able to become the 28th member of our union.
madam president, the european union's leadership is trying to offset the united kingdom's withdrawal by the accession of the western balkan countries. it is clear that this cannot fill the void left by brexit, and you are of course aware that if these countries, montenegro, skopje, albania or kosovo, the wasp nests of jihadists, join the european union, they will create enormous problems. these are countries with a lack of democracy, corruption and organised crime, where there is no rule of law and drugs are on the agenda, and where minorities are oppressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have pointed out, mr hahn, that article 36 of the new constitution of skopje refers to the so-called 'macedonia' and the so-called 'macedonian people'. is this consistent with the prespes agreement? secondly, i told you that the preamble mentions asnom. so read in english what asnom says, the 1944 resolution that speaks of the alleged self-determination of the 'macedonian nation', of the alleged self-determination of the 'macedonian people', of the abolition of the borders and of the unification of the macedonians with the macedonians. aren 't those some kind of redemptive words ? these are in the new constitution of skopje. of course there are and answer me! it's a given, and you'd better read it! you don't read the redemptive logic of the skopes yourself! so if you want to answer these questions! i am waiting for you or even inviting you to a public debate, because that is the way it is, mr hahn! you better read!
mr president, the global compact on migration is not only useless but also dangerous. first of all, it recognizes the right of mass mobilization and movement for economic reasons for anyone from a third country who wants to enter or even invade - mainly - europe and the united states. secondly, there is confusion about who is legal and who is illegal. this results in states being unable to pursue an independent national migration policy and protect their borders. in addition, there is a risk that in the future the currently non-binding objectives set out in the plan will become binding provisions and, given the blockages and the obsession of the left, it would not be surprising if any criticism of the phenomenon of illegal immigration were to become a criminal offence. this is precisely why many states no longer seek to sign the text.
i think that the debate has revealed, mr president, that there is indeed, unfortunately, discrimination against women with disabilities. and what is needed is not to say many words; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take concrete measures and we have repeatedly said in our speeches to the european parliament that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities must be implemented. there should also be no discrimination. there should be no discrimination against women who are disabled. we see this happening. there is a difficulty in accessing the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
i voted in favour of the report, madam president, because the german social welfare service for children and young people, the famous jugendamt, has really gone too far in its activities over the years. the complaints to the committee on petitions are endless. the parents are protesting, especially those who are settled in germany and are not german citizens, but are greek, french, croatian. we have received many complaints from poles too. the jugendamt follows the following logic: if one of the parents is german, it always supports him; it always supports the germans. and this is now an administrative practice that has been in place for years. the jugendamt intervenes in the operation of family law in a discreet manner to the detriment of non-germans.
madam president, skopje continues to undermine the name of our macedonia and our history. at the same time, even with the new constitution they adopted, they continue their redemptive policy, as in article 36 they continue to refer to an alleged 'macedonia' and an alleged 'macedonian people'. at the same time, in the preamble to the constitution, they refer to the 1944 asnom decision, which explicitly states that there is a right of self-determination of the so-called "macedonian nation" and the so-called "macedonian people". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore opposed to any future accession of skopje to the european union and naturally voted against this report.
madam president, i have repeatedly stated here in this house that i am opposed to any future membership of albania in the european union. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and it has been asked to do so. we have recently had, a month ago, the murder of konstantinos katsifa by the albanian police. the albanian government is continuing to seize greek property, to demolish churches, to corrupt the population in northern europe and is now taking further retaliatory measures. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two, but it is the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. we therefore tell her that this is not going to go away and that we will continue to denounce her - here in the european parliament - until she recognizes and implements the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus. that is why i voted against this report.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. but, mr. vella, i want to ask you a serious question: i have repeatedly complained that in the south karelia area, at mount ocha, which is a nature reserve, environmental legislation is being violated and violated. too many wind farms are being built and they don't meet the requirements. you yourself told me that the commission would refer greece to the court for breach of the law in connection with the installation of wind turbines and wind farms. the same breach is taking place in another area, in agrafa, as well as in monemvasia. but the question is when will you refer greece? it's been a long time. the violations of the law continue and, by the time the case reaches the court, it will be too late. i want an answer, mr. vella. when will european union legislation finally be applied in greece?
madam president, unfortunately, despite the enormous leaps that science has made, cancer is the scourge of our time and one of the leading causes of death worldwide. workers exposed to carcinogens or mutagens at work usually develop diseases such as cancer after their working lives. in recent years, fortunately, major initiatives have been taken at both national and union level to protect citizens and workers. every day we discover new dangerous substances or, even worse, substances that we have considered safe until now are ultimately harmful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the safety of the workers themselves. it is therefore necessary that we all support any initiative or action aimed at addressing this risk. the report we are discussing today is a step in the right direction, but it is by no means sufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
madam president, some of the additions or reductions in the prices of carcinogens to the relevant list of the directive you have brought are piecemeal and you even refer to their application from 2023 to 2025. the proposal for a directive is not about substantial and complete protection, but about minimal protection - that is, for the eyes of the world - defined by the only criteria you recognize, the criteria of competitiveness, of cost and benefit, all of which contribute to the profitability of capital, and all of this with private companies that you have to carry out the checks and are paid by the employers they will otherwise control, that is, those who break the limits to serve their profits. you literally put the wolf in charge of the sheep. the measures are far behind the full use of scientific knowledge and technological achievements and there remains a large untapped potential for prevention. the fight of workers for real protection against occupational diseases and all kinds of harmful agents in the workplace is very necessary and is in conflict with the criterion of capitalist profit.
your honor, cancer is literally reaping. 53% of mortality is actually from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens. this is happening to a large extent in business, because after the chineseisation of wages we now have the chineseisation of working conditions: no protection. i think it is therefore necessary to take measures to protect the workers themselves, who are exposed either by skin contact, eye contact, ingestion or inhalation to these carcinogens. much more exposed to diesel exhaust. so we have to have precautions, that's the most important thing. secondly, protective measures and equipment to protect workers and penalties for violators, because only then will they really be forced to comply with the requirements of the directive.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is true that employers and governments, and the european union as a whole, are making efforts to limit workers' exposure to such factors as diesel exhaust, both old and new, polycyclic hydrocarbons, as well as aromatic hydrocarbons, which are absorbed through the skin. they also set minimum limits which must not be exceeded in relation to the exposure of workers. but these are half-meters; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in conformity with the treaty.
the food scandals have shocked european public opinion. they are on the agenda. we have had the mad cow scandal, the egg scandal, which has affected greece, the glyphosate scandal. that is why the citizens have mobilized: one million signatures to stop this at the level of the european union, because there is no food safety, and so there is a huge risk to the consumers themselves, to their health. we have no transparency in scientific studies. there is a conflict of interest between the scientists who are supposed to do the studies and the companies. that is why health must be at the forefront; health and consumer protection. but of course, when you have a process where businesses are just looking for profit, you realize that we get these adverse outcomes. there must be measures to protect public health.
mr president, food, which is the most important factor for human survival, must be protected against the dangers which affect its hygiene and also threaten the lives of the people who consume it. the same care should be taken with feed. the european union's legislation on food safety must be based on scientific knowledge and extended throughout the food chain in order to protect citizens. although the european food safety authority bases its assessments on scientific process, citizens do not trust it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not contaminated by the contaminants of the products concerned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative.
the debate on how much, what information on food will be accessible to millions of consumers without affecting the competitiveness of businesses reveals the deception about transparency in their control and authorization. you are talking about food safety in a european union with a history of food scandals, with health risks to millions of people. we're seeing a war of corporate giants in the food industry with powerful lobbies. food, the most vital human need, is subordinated to profit. small farmers are being uprooted in favour of large agricultural and industrial holdings in the agri-food sector. dietary habits are driven by advertising. the food on the shelf is getting expensive. their quality falls 'for many, not for all', while expired ones are given to the impoverished in return for tax breaks to food groups. the hungry are growing in numbers all over the world and in developed europe, when science and technology combined with the labor of millions of people - farmers, workers - can ensure plenty of cheap, quality food for all. the other organization of the economy, without monopolies and profit, is necessary for the nutrition and health of the people.
the schengen agreement is a farce, ladies and gentlemen. this is what you see when you come to strasbourg. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. do you think that's right? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept them. we passed a place that said international arrivals. the same applies in brussels. there is a quarantine and illegal passport control of greeks coming from athens. that's the reality, because sagan is now a farce. the schengen agreement is only applied by those who want and accept exceptions, and not by certain countries acting on their own convenience. this is reality and it must be denounced in full! a word to our friends from bulgaria: what we are seeing now is that the path of illegal immigration from turkey to bulgaria has changed and then from bulgaria thousands of illegal immigrants are entering greece illegally; and we have concrete facts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i do not think that was a real question. you can answer such a question, but i would ask members, please, not to use the blue card to make comments.
the bureau maintains that you agree on the schengen issue, even though you have different views on internal policy issues in romania. i give the floor to the next speaker.
the council has not yet taken a decision on the schengen agreement, and it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the schengen agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in addition, because of the european union's flagrant failure to control the flows of migrants, mainly illegal ones, to europe, they often carry out checks at their borders and the schengen treaty has in fact been abolished. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals, and it is not the council's intention to make any changes to the proposal. on the other hand, we should bear in mind that the enlargement of the schengen area is often used as a means of serving some of the policies of the european union, such as the creation of the security union and the reform of asylum. i would like to say that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the schengen agreement is fully implemented.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on the report of anne sander, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) and repealing regulation (eec) no 337/75 (com ((2016) 0532 c8-0343/2016 2016/07(cod)) (a8-0273/2018), on the report of czesław hoc, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of an agency for safety and health at work (osha-eu) and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) and repealing regulation (eec) no 337/75 (com ((2016) 0532 c8-0343/2016)) (com (2016) 03540)), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european agency for safety and health at work (osha-eu-osha) and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) and on the regulation (cedefop) and repealing regulation (com (2016) 20754-0348-04-065 (a) and repealing regulation (a8-04/2016) and regulation (a8-065 (a8-04/2016) on the proposal for a regulation of the regulation of the european parliament and regulation of the council on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the regulation of the regulation
madam president, we are talking about three important decentralized agencies. cedefop has a significant role in vocational training, but of course we have two bodies dealing with working conditions and the safety and health of workers. i think that cedefop is proving that if we are to be competitive in the european union, we must invest in education and training, because that is the only way to meet the challenges of our time, so we must pay particular attention to this organization and prove in practice that if we really have vocational training, we can also move forward in the economic field and certainly not have the chineseisation of wages, so that the european union can be competitive. at the same time, the other two organizations are making sure that we do not have a chinese-style of working conditions, that is, that we have workplaces where there can really be both safety and health for the workers. the arrangements that have been made and the new interventions i think are helping the agencies to function effectively and of course the enhanced role of the european parliament is welcome.
madam president, the rapporteur referred to the famous clause of defence solidarity which exists in both nato and the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is a serious matter, mr rapporteur, as is the fact that turkey has occupied 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus and we see nothing nato is doing. at the level of the european union, the same applies. we have not seen a decisive attitude from the european council towards erdogan, in his threats, in what he is doing, in his violation of the cypriot eez, in his questioning of the rights of cyprus, in his questioning of the rights of greece, in his saying that if greece extends its territorial waters by 12 miles, that means war. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to achieve this on land, a high-quality road network with bridges is required. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. what is the reason for allowing a european union military force to move within and, more importantly, outside the borders of the european union? is it going to attack a neighboring country? ukraine, belarus, moldova or any other? if not, why should it have that capability? if so, why is this association called defensive? have they asked the military? have they received proposals on whether and if european union forces not deployed to nato and deployed for peacekeeping missions are capable of conducting offensive operations?
madam president, the knowledge economy is what will determine what happens in the years ahead. it's a given that we need education, training, funding, to really be able to respond to society, so that we don't create digital problems for our citizens. the most important thing is where the funds will come from. that's the whole point. when you have the stability pact, which prohibits increased spending on public investment, then there is a serious problem. i believe, commissioner, that the investment made by member states in education, and in particular in training in digital technology, should not be counted against the deficit. we must have an exception there, just as there must be funds from the european investment bank, just as there should be no need for national funding, especially for greece, in order for greece to be included in european programmes, as was the case with the special exception that applied in previous years.
the rapid development of technology has a direct impact on our daily lives, madam president, because it affects the way in which the various professions are exercised, and this impact will continue and be even more pronounced in the future. this will also have an impact on jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. to survive in this environment of automation, digitisation and rapid technological development, every person must be educated so that he or she acquires the knowledge and skills that will enable him or her to survive in this environment. the european union has a long history of providing education and training for the poor, and it is therefore important that all the member states and the european union as a whole should draw up a strategy and seek to raise the necessary funds to train their people in a way that can meet the demands of the modern age.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and especially the honourable member yana toom, for this high—quality report. now that we are implementing the digital education action plan, your calls for a more ambitious eu strategy on education in the digital age come at the right moment. as you rightly highlight, the digital education action plan, which the commission published in early 2018, can only be a first step in tackling the digital divide. i strongly believe that parliament can be a key partner in developing the next steps. i also believe that member states are keen to cooperate more closely on this issue. despite differences in their education systems, they all face similar challenges: first, how to ensure that staff and students develop digital skills; second, how to use digital technology for teaching and learning; and, third, how to improve education systems through better data analysis and foresight. this requires learning throughout one’s lifetime. hence, digital competence is one of the eight key competences for lifelong learning that the council confirmed in its recommendation adopted earlier this year. member states are also working to embed digital technologies in the school environment. investment in resources and infrastructure is crucial but, if it is to lead to innovation, it needs to be matched with a comprehensive vision for digital transformation that tackles the educational organisation as a whole. the commission thinks that selfie, a free online tool just launched in october, can play a vital role here: it can help any school assess its use of technologies for teaching and learning. by the end of november, over 50 000 teachers, students and school leaders had already used selfie. our goal is to reach one million users by the end of next year. i also welcome the emphasis on teachers and trainers in your report. i fully agree that teaching staff are at the heart of digital transformation. teachers do of course need training, but crucially they need time and support to be able to use technology in their teaching. technology should also help relieve teachers from the burden of administrative and non-teaching tasks. moreover, in its proposal for the next multiannual financial framework (mff), the commission has demonstrated commitment to supporting educators and learners in gaining and updating skills and competencies, including the digital ones. the eu budget support for digital skills development will not only be guaranteed by the successes of the existing eu funding instruments covering this field, such as esf+, erasmus and horizon europe, but also by the new digital europe programme. the digital europe programme will provide learning opportunities reflecting the latest technological developments in advanced digital skills relating to artificial intelligence, high—performance computing and cybersecurity. as you rightly say in your report, all schools need to be provided with high capacity broadband. in fact, within the future connecting europe facility (cef) programme, after 2020 we aim to support access to gigabit connectivity for socioeconomic drivers, including schools. with the future digital europe programme, in turn, we plan to support the deployment of digital capabilities in schools, and the future erasmus programme will support schools, universities and other educational organisations in their digital transformation. we therefore strongly welcome your support in the negotiation of these new programmes. i fully agree with the honourable members that the action plan can only be the starting point of a broader debate. in keeping with the wishes of the member states in gothenburg, we deliberately started with schools, higher education and vocational education and training. adult learning, non-formal education and teacher training will follow at the next stage. the plan has helped a great deal in generating political discussion and momentum, and we intend to build on this. to conclude, i would like to thank you again for this constructive discussion. the commission looks forward to working with you in developing a fuller vision and strategy.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have had a very good working relationship. we have therefore come to a text which i consider to be very important for european culture. it is a good coincidence that this text is being presented at the end of the european year of cultural heritage, which has highlighted the brilliance and importance of european culture. in drafting this report, i had in mind the many challenges facing europe today: the economic crisis, the refugee problem, the rise of populism and the far right. in these difficult times, civilization can lead to the rediscovery of the common bonds that unite and bind us. in this context, we have worked in the committee on culture and have come up with specific proposals, which revolve around three general themes: first, adequate funding for culture. the creative europe programme needs to be at least doubled. it is also necessary to establish strong partnerships with the european structural and investment funds so that actions for culture reach 1% of the next budget. the truth, madam president, which was pointed out by the great politician and orator of ancient greece, demosthenes, 'without money, no man is born', is as relevant as ever. secondly, the protection of the rights of authors. the nature of the work of creators is known to often lead to economic uncertainty, and they are often exposed to the interests of multinational corporations. the adoption of the copyright directive last september was an important step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, the mobility of creators and their works. the european union must make a decisive contribution to the mobility of creators, in order to facilitate their contacts and enable them to reach the widest possible audience, both within the union and beyond. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is the creation of an institution which, in the spirit of the european capital of culture, will each year highlight a personality whose work and life have expressed and influenced european values. i could give you random but specific examples, such as mozart, leonardo da vinci, shakespeare, plato, goethe, marie curie, but also simone de beauvoir, cervantes, and so many others. culture is expressed and flourishes by people, and it is time their contribution was recognised at a pan-european level. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to stress that the adoption of the report will, for the first time in many years, contribute to a coherent and coordinated cultural path for the member states. it will be the best follow-up to the european year of cultural heritage, which is leaving behind its strong sparkle and legacy.
the new european agenda for culture, madam president, will be incomplete if we do not resolve the serious problem of the return of stolen archaeological treasures. as we are in the year of cultural heritage, we cannot tolerate a situation where several thousand i would say cultural treasures, archaeological treasures, cultural findings of greece have been stolen by the nazi occupation troops and are illegally in various museums in germany. i have raised this issue on several occasions and have asked the european commission to intervene, but it has been too slow. we must realize that if we want to have a real european agenda in culture, the european parliament must demand the return of the archaeological treasures stolen by the nazi occupation troops, a theft that was committed in greece, and these treasures must be returned to greece.
madam president, i return to the issue of the suppression of the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus for the eighth time, because rama and his gang are continuing the policy of ethnic cleansing. in practice, he wants to drive the minority, the northerners, out of their ancestral homes, and that is why he is trying to alter the demographic characteristics. it is moving to the kosovo area, it is not allowing greek to be taught in schools. and yet all these are rights guaranteed by the famous corfu protocol of 1914, which gives the right of autonomy to the northern hemisphere. the policy of persecution continues and rama, his entourage and the albanian police have ended up executing konstantinos katsifa, and not only that, but the day before yesterday he did not even allow the memorial service to take place. that's disgraceful!
madam president, although the union's situation is already aggravated by the entry of illegal immigrants into its territory, we continue to apply the wrong and failed policy of open borders. in greece alone, more than a million illegal immigrants have arrived in recent years, and the flows continue and will continue to suffer as long as we caress turkey. the commissioner may describe his interventions in dealing with this phenomenon as successful, but he has avoided visiting the people who have experienced and are experiencing islamic terrorism. you talk about people, but you've renounced humanity. your rhetoric seems irresponsible, unconscionable and a threat to national security. as citizens of the union, we are calling for a europe of stability and security in a world of chaos and turmoil. i therefore call on the council to reject the global compact on migration, which arbitrarily and indiscriminately grants rights to illegal immigrants at the expense of our own citizens and those who really need them.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. every step towards unification brings with it centrifugal tendencies, in any case reactivation and escalation of the anti-people offensive. brexit, refugees, migration, which she creates with her own interventions, rivalries within herself but also with the united states, russia and china, militarization, a recovery that slows down in preparation for a new crisis, all this shakes her. to save himself from popular indignation, macron's hopeful reformer is distributing brutal repression and some concessions to the extent that capital allows. his friend mr tsipras and others are mocking the idea that the union can change. they represent the progressive bulwark of conservatism and the far right, which they themselves breed with their anti-people politics as transport containers. the people's indignation must find its own way out of the trap of being trapped in the same politics under a different cloak, by rupture and overthrow, by strengthening everywhere and in the european elections the only guarantors of this path, the communists.
madam president, i have no doubt that the european council meeting the day after tomorrow will not be the one to take any important decisions. we shall again be spectators in the same play, and this is because the heads of state are neither willing nor accustomed to discussing a common solution to the problems facing their peoples. another reason is that these people do not support the interests of the peoples and do not listen to the wishes and needs of their citizens. that is why, as we saw the other day, they signed the migration pact in marrakesh. they have essentially legitimized a policy that has failed miserably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if they do not decide to support the interests of the peoples, the council meeting will be nothing more than a meeting ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the un, instead of focusing on the redistribution of wealth produced, with the marrakesh pact on migration is moving towards the redistribution of populations. immigration, legal and illegal, is now a tool for reducing wages and salaries in the host countries. this creates a reserve army, which will eventually cause wages to fall in developed countries. we are inevitably being led to abolish the right of states to determine which populations will reside on their territory. in practice, this is an indirect way of legitimising illegal immigration and a tool for 'chinising' wages with the ultimate aim of increasing the profitability of european business groups. the chineseisation of wages, poverty and unemployment are the main reasons for the mobilizations in france by the yellow vests, mobilizations which will continue as the french people do not tolerate austerity. the european union has sown winds and will reap storms in the next european elections.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, unfortunately the council and the eurogroup, in the face of what the european parliament is asking, what the european peoples are asking, what the commission has proposed, what it is supporting and even what the european central bank is supporting, are inspired by the spirit of 'too little, too late'. the european deposit guarantee scheme, which the commission has proposed for four years and which the european parliament supports, is referred back to the calendar by the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european monetary fund is moving too slowly, like a crab, when it should already be in place, learning from the mistakes the international monetary fund has made in europe and ensuring more democratic accountability. the commission has already taken a number of steps to reduce the risk of fraud, and it is not the responsibility of the netherlands, germany and the ultra-conservatives to take any steps to reduce the risk.
madam president, the movement of the yellow vests and the mobilizations of the french people confirm in the most categorical way what we have pointed out repeatedly, namely that the eurozone is a bubble that has failed miserably, filling europe with millions of poor people and armies of unemployed. the social inequalities and the unequal distribution of wealth produced affect not only the societies of the european south but also those of the hard core such as france. the eurozone functions as an annex to the german economy, which accumulates huge trade surpluses. the eurozone must therefore be reformed and austerity abandoned, the european central bank must be transformed into a lender of last resort and the stability pact must be abolished. decentralize the functioning of the eurozone by regaining monetary sovereignty of its member states, so as to give the right to the national central banks to conduct monetary policy by cutting money up to their percentage of participation in the capital of the european central bank. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its political control over the eurogroup.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is trying - and succeeding - to make a coordinated and coherent path towards civilization for the member states of the european union. i would say that this decision is extremely important, because at the critical moment europe is living, culture is the best factor for communication between nations and for peaceful cooperation. i therefore ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal, which will open up new avenues and new ways of communication and culture after many years.
mr president, education plays an important role in the knowledge economy, because everything is now at the service of the digital age. it is clear that an economy can be competitive, not because wages will fall, as many have said, but mainly because investment will be made in education, innovation, new technologies. but to do that, there must be funds, and to have funds, there must first of all be increased public investment. but how will public investment in the member states increase when the stability pact places specific limits on deficits? that is why we propose that investment in new technologies, investment in innovation, investment in the digital age and the knowledge economy, investment in education should be excluded from the stability pact.
mr president, the life programme is important for biodiversity. it is important for the development of nature areas and on this basis we must support it. but what is happening in greece is that the policy of installing wind farms is actually destroying the natura sites. i have mentioned several times the case of south carinthia, the case of mount ocha, which has been designated as a nature reserve, and yet a large number of wind farms are being installed there in violation of environmental legislation. while the commission has said it will refer greece to the court of justice of the european union for breaching legislation on the establishment and operation of wind farms, it has yet to do so. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. when will environmental legislation finally be implemented in greece? no answer at all. we are waiting to see when the implementation of environmental legislation in greece will take place.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in addition, a very large number of workers are exposed to diesel emissions. so we must have a policy of prevention. the workers must be given the opportunity to have the appropriate equipment and, above all, protective measures must be taken. in addition, because the large business groups seem indifferent to this issue, specific sanctions should be provided for against employers. the legislation must be unassailable, and that is why very specific measures are needed to force companies to take protective measures for the benefit of the workers themselves who are employed in their companies.
madam president, today terrorism is used mainly by fanatical extremists, as well as by other groups, but unfortunately also by states, in order to create insecurity, cause anxiety, defeatism and ultimately to break the morale of the population of the states all over the world. as regards europe, i agree with the conclusions and proposals of the two rapporteurs that there should be cooperation between countries, information should be exchanged, radicalisation should be tackled, the exchange of information between terrorists, their illegal financing and equipment should be combated and measures against them should generally be coordinated. but if we really want to confront terrorism and fight it, we need to take two very simple steps: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a political force, a political force, a political force, a political force, a political force, a political force.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the high representative's speech and i very much agree with him. the problem has two levels, the human rights situation in turkey and the repression of the opposition, and then there is the second level, which we should not forget, that turkey is ceasing to respect the judgments of the european court of human rights. it is very sad news that although turkey is, as has been said, a founding member of the council of europe, it is at this moment very much relativizing and questioning the commitments it has taken on. we should respond to it. first, we should clearly stand by the leader of the opposition, clearly label his processes as political. we should also address the issue of non-compliance with the judgment of the european court of human rights. i have a question for the commissioner: what will the commission do if this phenomenon continues to grow and turkey continues to break away from the european legal traditions and does not respect the decisions of this judicial institution?
mr president, the decision of the european court of human rights in the demirtaş case, which in effect orders his release, is a slap in the face of erdogan, a slap in the face of the authoritarian regime in turkey, in turkey where, as we know, there is a vast prison. all dissenters have been sent to prison. of course, erdogan says he won't implement the decision. it is well known that turkey is a state which does not apply the law, a state which constantly threatens greece, a state which has occupied 37% of the territory of cyprus and it is time, not only for the demirtaş case but for the illegal action of turkey as a whole, to take measures, to impose sanctions, to stop the accession negotiations, to impose an embargo on the export of turkish agricultural products to the european union.
mr president, based on our experience of the way in which all the principles of the rule of law are being violated in turkey, we should not have the slightest doubt that the demirtaş case will also be used by erdogan in such a way as to extract as much benefit as possible from the european union. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's proposals, but it is prepared to accept the turkish government's proposals, and it is prepared to accept the turkish government's proposals. i wonder what they have to say to the turkish people, all those who are now shedding crocodile tears and mourning for the supposed freedoms and democracy in turkey. if we continue to treat turkey with this tolerance, nothing will be achieved and we will simply be mocking the unhappy turkish people. but we are not being mocked on this issue.
mr president, the rapid implementation of the militarization of the european union foreshadows the danger of a general confrontation with the victims of the peoples for the interests of the imperialists. after pesco, the permanent military cooperation of the european union, now promote military mobility, military schengen for direct imperialist interventions, with member states becoming a vineyard of eurasian troops for european union war operations, independently, in competition or in cooperation with other imperialists, to increase the booty of its own monopolies. the aim is to remove all obstacles by abolishing consensus in foreign policy, by mechanisms of the arms industry and its financing, and at the same time all these mechanisms are growing like mushrooms and being upgraded. the syriza-anel government, the flag bearer of the united states, nato and the european union in the region, is spearheading the war plans with base camps, targeting the greek people and the country. the peoples can, by fighting against imperialist war, thwart the bloody plans of the european union and nato.
mr president, the implementation of the common security and defence policy cannot deal with present and future threats. the member states called upon to implement it either have conflicting priorities or lack appropriate or sufficient means. the convergence and synergies of action between sovereign states and their respective allies are, of course, entirely legitimate to the extent that common challenges are addressed through the convergence of interests, aspirations and priorities among the participants. but possible cooperation or coordination of action should not be confused with a supranational federation of the members of the union. a military alliance for collective security does not exist as long as the role of the union is not clarified in the event of very serious differences between its members and there is no commitment to collective defence in the event of an attack on one of the allies by a third state. on the contrary, it is a flagrant injustice to create a hybrid offspring which, in the name of security and defence, will serve the specific interests of countries not on the union's external borders.
mr president, seventy years after the adoption of the universal declaration on human rights, the situation in northern europe is desperate because the albanian authorities do not respect the rights of the greek minority in northern europe. they have indulged in an orgy of oppression, an orgy of blackmail, an orgy of intimidation. even the electricity is cut for 12 hours and all this leads to an unacceptable situation. you know very well that the albanian police have practically executed konstantinos katsifa. at his funeral and the memorial service yesterday, we had an orgy of terror. can this situation continue, mrs mogherini? you should make specific recommendations to mr rama to respect the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus, not to seize their property, to respect everything that is stated in the corfu protocol of 1914 and international conventions.
the european union is committed to protecting human rights both within itself and in its relations with third countries. the european union must be particularly concerned about the respect of human rights by a country which seeks to join it. i am referring to albania, which is provoking and unacceptably suppressing the rights of the greek minority resident in that country. despite being law-abiding by conviction, members of the minority are subjected to unprecedented terrorism, oppression and violation of their human rights. the albanian government is destroying orthodox churches, seizing the property of the greek minority by legal means, and forbidding the teaching and speaking of the greek language. in 2010 he tolerated the murder of aristotle goma and on 28 october he assassinated konstantinos katsifa. the european union must immediately suspend its relations with albania and force mr rama to respect the rights of the greek people. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the european parliament's report on ukraine is forced to whisper something about the unbearable poverty of its people, about violence and terrorism by criminal nazi and nationalist groups. but no one forgets: the european union, nato and the americans staged a coup to impose the current government with the participation of fascists. they're always reinforcing it more and more. the commissioner for justice and home affairs, ms jourová, openly supported the banning of the communist party of ukraine in response to a question from the kke. the ukrainian people and other countries, the fields of barbarous anti-people politics and savage anti-communism, are an outpost of the european union and nato to encircle russia in the context of the most acute competition with it. the events in azov, where the union and nato are seeking a stronger military presence, are another example of the general war with untold consequences. it is once again clear that the european union and nato do not guarantee peace, security and prosperity, but only war, refugees, poverty and misery. the peoples are the only ones who can stand up to this imperialist barbarity.
mr president, i too offer my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the terrorist attack. in the context of the implementation of the policy to increase the capacity of the european union, the council decided to set up the european union fund. the aim is to help states spend taxpayers' money to create a strong european defence industry. in other words, the european union is admitting that it is seeking to produce and sell more weapons and other high-tech military equipment. since this project requires 5.5 billion euros a year to be carried out, and as a greek whose fellow citizens suffer financially from the continuing presence and financing of nato in our country, and since i cannot accept at the same time the reduction in the political power of my country because of the attempt to abolish the principle of unanimity, i reject this attempt.
mr president, after condemning the terrorist attack in strasbourg and offering my condolences to the families of the dead and the injured, i welcome you to the european parliament. mr president, you know very well that all greeks, especially nationalists, believe that cyprus is not far away but very close. she is here, in our hearts, and because we are concerned for her future, i ask you to apologize for the following: why do you ignore the decision of the cypriot people, as expressed in the 2004 referendum, and promote as a solution to the cyprus problem the bi-zonal bi-communal federation, which legitimizes the illegal occupation of 37% of cyprus and abolishes the status of the republic of cyprus? why, in the context of this bi-zonal conflict, do you legitimize the presence of settlers in the occupied territories, when you know that settlement is a war crime and that settlers are being used as a means to modify, to change the demographic composition of the country? why, while turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus, do you not invoke the right of veto to demand that the european union immediately suspend membership talks and funding for turkey? why are you not protesting against the european union's funding of the turkish cypriots under the annual action programme of eur 34.5 million? why are you not protecting the citizens of the republic of cyprus when the authorities, the illegal authorities of the pseudo-state, acting as legal authorities, arrest and imprison them? why do you allow the opening of roadblocks, knowing the economic impact, the smuggling, the illegal labour and the increase in crime that this entails? most importantly, why did you allow the opening of the derynia barrier, which is implicated in the murder of isaac and solomon? and finally, why didn't you prevent the sale of german leopard 2a4 tanks to the occupying forces to upgrade their fighting power? are you going to ask the european union to impose an arms embargo on turkey and the pseudo-state? i am very grateful to you and look forward to your replies.
i welcome you, mr president, as you come at a time when we are mourning the dead in strasbourg and i think it is necessary to stress that the fight against terrorism requires more european cooperation to promote peaceful democratic coexistence and not a return to nationalisms. greece and cyprus have withdrawn from the memoranda. their economy is recovering and i am glad that there is a partnership between you and the greek prime minister, alexis tsipras, despite the fact that you belong to different political families. i think that it is necessary to re-launch, with the contribution of both the commission and the european parliament, the political dialogue for a just and viable solution to the cyprus problem, so that the last wall in europe that divides cyprus can fall.
mr president, fourteen years ago you announced with a bang on the drums the accession to the european union, anticipating a solution to the cyprus problem. today the situation is much worse. the turkish aggression, the intensifying rivalries make the situation in the wider region more dangerous. the european union cannot guarantee the rights of peoples. the european union and its predecessors, together with nato and the united states, bear a great deal of responsibility for the occupation, the perpetuation and the aggravation of the cyprus problem. we condemn the occupation of cyprus. the euro-atlantic staff and the energy monopolies are comfortable with a dichotomous solution, with nato and eu troops on the island, which is a source of new dangers rather than security and stability. the communist party of greece expresses its solidarity with the cypriot people. the experience gained from the rejection of the dichotomous imperialist plan of annan can strengthen the struggle for a united, independent cyprus with a single sovereignty, citizenship and international personality. one state, not two, with no foreign bases, troops or guarantors, with its own people, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, as masters!
mr president, no one can deny that the taxation of companies selling digitally has created a situation where governments are unable to tax the activities of these companies effectively, resulting in both tax avoidance on their part and unfair competition for traditional companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no way that all the states in the world will agree on a single taxation of the digital economy, and rightly so, because taxation is one of the pillars of national and state sovereignty. on the contrary, i think that the appropriate solution is to establish a physical presence requirement for all companies wishing to make digital sales in a specific state where the transactions will be taxed normally, as is the case for traditional companies. this is a serious issue and we must deal with it immediately, responding to the legitimate grievances of small companies and citizens who bear the brunt of the tax burden.
the next item on the agenda is voting time.
the time for voting is over. (the sitting was suspended at 6.04 p.m.)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we are discussing the european ombudsman's action report for 2017. i think it is a very important piece of work on the part of mrs o'reilly and i congratulate her on her work, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs evi. the issues involved are very important. i think they are focusing on the concept of transparency and of course on the fight against maladministration and when we look at these things in the light of the activities of the institutions we find that there is a serious issue with the commission which, while it is often obliged to refer member states for breach of community legislation, yet it does not do so. this constitutes a classic case of maladministration. the second case of mismanagement is that of revolving doors. we cannot have a former commission president, mr barroso, working for a private firm like goldman sachs. we have also had problems with the appointment of the secretary-general of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what about the council? transparency in the legislative process. no one knows which member state has voted what, so that member states hide behind the council's collective decision. the next item is the european central bank. mr draghi is a member of the g30, a classic case of mismanagement in an organisation where private banks are involved, where mr draghi is supposed to be auditing private banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there must also be transparency in its operation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to fraport was compatible with the internal market. we congratulate the ombudsman on her work and support her action, as parliament should do.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the committee on petitions is really the committee which has direct contact with the citizens. it is the only committee where citizens can come and speak, and that is a qualitative difference. although some people think that this is a debased committee, they are wrong, because through the committee on petitions the rights are heard, the citizens' demands are heard, and we have dealt with very important issues such as the rights of people with disabilities, we have dealt with the issue of child abduction, we have dealt with the famous jugendamt, we have dealt with social rights, access to documents, the role of the commission in the known pilot cases, that is to say those which raise issues of violation of european law, environmental protection, also for the protection of citizens from pesticides. i think that this has had an important effect, particularly for greece, because we have given this committee a place and we have more and more reports, more and more intervention from greek citizens, even though some people considered this committee to be of little importance. i would just like to point out that for another year the committee on petitions has rejected my request for a public hearing on the serious issue of german reparations, a matter of concern to greece, but unfortunately once again the committee on petitions has not accepted my proposal. i hope that you will deal with the new report i am going to present on the question of german reparations, the question of german debts, including the forced occupation loan, compensation for the relatives of victims executed by the german occupation troops and war reparations. it is an issue that i will bring back in 2019 and i hope that this time our committee itself will be much more positive in addressing this request, which is an issue that all greek citizens are asking for.
madam president, i had asked for a catch-the-eye earlier and thank you for giving me the floor. space exploration is really an advance for civilization itself, for the economy itself. but we must be aware of two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it's certainly true that we have applications in transportation, such as navigation for shipping, roads, satellites, that really play a big role in telecommunications, in meteorology, and in the agricultural economy. i think that the galileo and copernicus systems play an important role. the european space agency should obviously be strengthened but always cooperate with the relevant committees and agencies of the member states.
the digital economy is really the future of europe, madam president, because it can boost competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fortunately, they've realized lately that they need to invest in the digital economy, in new technologies. but, in order to make an investment, there must be a comfort in public investment. but how can there be public investment when the stability pact creates certain problems and limits the member states themselves in the ability to allocate funds? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the digital economy is not a one-off, but an exceptional one, and that it does not count towards the deficit, when there is investment in the digital economy, and especially when it is an investment in order to create opportunities for the digital economy to grow. at the same time, we have to look at it from the perspective of a central bank, because mr draghi has bought bonds from companies that have not invested in the digital economy. it is simply a matter of looking at it, because the funds invested, the funds you mention in the programme, are not enough, so we have to find other ways of financing.
mr president, it has been reported by colleagues that there is a real problem on the border between bosnia and croatia. you said there were five and a half thousand refugees crowded in. so imagine the problem on the island of samos, where there are currently six thousand refugees and illegal immigrants on one island alone. but i didn't hear any suggestions. i didn't hear any solutions being offered. just wishes. question number one: how have these thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants arrived in bosnia? in what way? have they crossed into other countries? you said they came from turkey. but how did they get to bosnia? is there a flight connection to turkish airlines? who has the responsibility of getting these people there? that's what we're looking for. secondly, there are certainly obligations for bosnia, because it has an association agreement with the european union. as for croatia, a colleague said that croatia should join schengen. i tell you that if croatia joins schengen, you will be a magnet for more refugees and illegal immigrants, as is the case with greece.
mr. chairman, i want to join my colleagues who have clearly described the situation in tanzania. the government of president magufuli is a big disappointment for us, we expected after his election that he would make real reforms in the country, that he would fight corruption, and instead we are witnessing the hunt for members of sexual minorities, pregnant girls, opposition leaders and so on. that means that the situation is going in a very bad direction, and i have a question for the commissioner: how will the commission react to this in particular? i think it is necessary that the developments in tanzania have an impact on the relations between the european union and tanzania and that we do not stop at mere proclamations, political and moral condemnation of the situation in tanzania, but that we translate this political position into action. this means that it should have an impact on the economic aid to tanzania from the european union and, say, on the tightening of diplomatic and public pressure on the country.
mr. president, the situation in tanzania is out of control. we see that president magufuli is now persecuting the opposition, civil society groups, parties with which he does not agree. he's taken out radio stations and newspapers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have a ban on pregnant women and girls from school, which is unacceptable. we also see that in the maasai land area there is now land grabbing. land that is arable is taken for profit. it is obvious that the european union should take very concrete measures against the tanzanian government.
