rapporteur for the opinion of the agri committee. mr president, in achieving the european union's energy and climate objectives, a stronger use of renewable energy sources can be an effective mechanism to reduce dependence on energy imports and to create new jobs. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market and that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of member states in the union's energy market. the proposals to phase out the use of biomass and biofuels are considered by us in the committee on agriculture to be contrary to the interests of the european union. not only because we now have 100,000 jobs in the biofuel sector, but because by producing highly sustainable biofuels, we also produce high-protein animal feed, which helps reduce the import of gmo food. so i urge you to support the amendments that give all renewable energy sectors the opportunity to realize their full potential.
mr president, the adoption of the technical measures regulation is an important moment in the development of fisheries policies. after many years of misguided approaches, the new common fisheries policy and the alignment of legislation with its objectives have created an opportunity for sustainable fishing that respects regional specificities. in that respect, i must congratulate rapporteur mati and all my shadow rapporteurs on this excellent report. this is the first step which will undoubtedly lead to the amendment of the mediterranean regulation, which i proposed in my amendment which was adopted. the current regulation does not allow fishing with floating nets in the adriatic because of its specificities, which are not taken into account by the regulation. such a situation is discriminatory towards croatian fishermen who have been facing this problem since the day of croatia's accession to the european union. i am pleased that by adopting this regulation we are one step closer to a solution that means the survival of croatian fisheries.
mr president, i congratulate mr matti on his report and i am pleased that the committee on fisheries has accepted my amendments to introduce flexibility in view of the specific conditions of fishing in the adriatic. following a comprehensive international study on the technology of swimming-net fishing, the technical characteristics of these nets and their impact on the seabed, it has been demonstrated that fishing in the adriatic does not result in the lowering of the net to the bottom, regardless of the depth. the current provisions of european legislation limit the use of surrounding swimming nets to depths of less than 70% of the height of the net, and because of the influence of sea currents, but also the changing configuration of the sea floor, fishing with these nets would be virtually suspended. this would irreversibly jeopardise the 2 000 people working on ships and the 15 000 people working in processing and all other ancillary activities, which is not negligible because these are permanent jobs 12 months a year on croatian islands and coastlines. therefore, the adoption of the adriatic exemption is particularly important and i thank you for your support.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i had the honour of chairing the adriatic-ionian euroregion for eight years and i can tell you, madam commissioner, that this euroregion, which was created precisely by the will of the cities and the will of the regions on the adriatic and the ionian sea, has come to life as a european union macro-strategy following our initiative in brussels. i'm telling you all this precisely to emphasize how important everything that happens at the local and regional level is, but i also know that we have the coordination of uniadrion university, we also have the union of cities and the union of chambers of commerce. all these are elements that, when we talk about a specific macro-regional strategy such as the adriatic-ionian, can live, but it is necessary to include all these levels. and finally, these three don't need to after ten years of experience become a little bit of a yes.
madam president, this report has shown how important macro-regional strategies are for the development of the european union, but not only the european union but also all the countries neighbouring the member states of the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of all member states. that we need much stronger political commitment in the implementation of macro-regional strategies, that we need to have better cross-border cooperation, that we need to have better coordination, and as the report stressed, we cannot leave everything to a voluntary relationship or organisation of member states and neighbouring countries. it is also very important that in this better coordination, better use of the budget, we pay particular attention to sustainable development, to include the united nations sustainable development goals and also to include important european policies such as the circular economy, clean energy in this cohesion policy, or macro-regional strategies for development after 2020.
madam president, the macro-region project is highly complementary to the fundamental values of the european union, it represents a framework for the countries of a region to cooperate in order to solve problems that they cannot solve satisfactorily on their own. as a participant in two macro-regional strategies, croatia is a bridge between the danube region strategy and the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. it is the only country that extends its territory to the danube, the adriatic, and the mediterranean at the same time. both strategies, the danube with five countries not yet members of the european union and the adriatic-ionian with four, represent an excellent platform for cooperation and should therefore be catalysts for the continuation and revitalization of the enlargement process of the european union. however, with existing examples of good practice, both platforms have yet to reach their full potential. the implementation report reveals problems with resources, management and accountability. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance.
madam president, in circumstances where we have clearly defined sources of funding, we see in practice that there are problems in implementation, for example in cohesion policy, and in implementation we often face a lack of administrative capacity, unresolved property-legal relations, issues of implementation of the public procurement procedure and so on. with macro-regional strategies, we also have multi-level governance, i.e. not just at local and national level, but also between different member states, and with complex governance we have problems with undefined sources of funding. if we really want macro-regional strategies to be implemented and projects to really see the light of day, then we must ensure funding sources at the level of the european union, in the european budget, using both transnational programmes and cohesion policy, and thus help countries.
written. the importance of the seas and oceans is growing every day. the oceans are actually our biggest allies in the fight against climate change. the seas are a source of food, energy, mobility, medicine and rest, they regulate our climate, they give us half our oxygen and they take up a significant proportion of the carbon dioxide we emit. in addition to the many problems caused by global warming, one of the fastest growing threats to the health of the world's oceans is the accumulation and spread of marine debris. microplastics are of particular concern because of their small size and are accessible to a wide range of organisms (seabirds, fish, algae, sandflies and zooplankton). the staggering 150 million tons of plastic that have accumulated in the world's oceans are causing serious environmental and economic damage, including to coastal communities, tourism, shipping and fisheries. in this context, we need an ambitious circular economy package with targets to reduce marine litter in the european union by 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030 and higher targets for the recycling of plastic packaging. oceans transcend borders, and therefore strong regional and international cooperation between governments in all marine regions and a wide range of interdisciplinary expertise are needed to ensure the sustainability of shared resources and sound ocean governance measures.
madam president, there are many conclusions and recommendations in this report that i could challenge because i believe it is a very ideologized view of important global challenges. but i would like to highlight the recommendation that special attention be paid to the migrant women and girls who have been exposed to violence during the journey to europe. of course it's something we should do, but i'm afraid it's just a matter of appeasing our own conscience. so there is an awareness that a large number of women migrants are being driven out by various forms of violence, and this, as we see, is taken for granted, as if there is no alternative to illegal migration and the organized crime that profits from it. no one questions how much of our fault it is that these women are dying at the hands of smugglers, and many of them in europe end up in the prostitution chain. it's incredible that a good part of the colleagues still don't understand that our insane immigration and asylum policies are the main reason why these women are traveling in the first place and why they are putting their fate in the hands of criminals who often destroy their lives.
madam president, women and girls are vulnerable to climate change and the effects of climate change are exacerbating existing inequalities in society, and women in rural areas are particularly vulnerable, as they are dependent on natural resources because they are engaged in agricultural work and perform a large number of unpaid domestic work, so i am advocating that this is exactly what needs to change and that their work is recognised and paid for. it is certainly a disturbing fact that women and children die 14 times more than men in natural disasters. women are still under-represented in climate change decision-making bodies, so i support stronger involvement of women in the implementation and enforcement of environmental policies at national and local level. i also join the calls on the commission to include climate change in development programmes and to find solutions to these problems and to finance them. i support the initiative to focus women on clean energy entrepreneurship and help them to become self-employed.
madam president, the border dispute between croatia and slovenia has been straining relations between the two countries for too long. in 2009, when the arbitration agreement was signed, it seemed that the dispute would finally be resolved, but the slovenian side, with unprecedented contamination of the arbitration process, made sure that we met again at the beginning. if the commission wants to save the face of international law, then it must be understood that the application of the decision, which is the result of an unprecedented corrupt act, is not an option here and that a new solution must be found through dialogue. what is crucial is that both sides refrain from unilateral moves that would make life difficult for citizens. unfortunately, slovenia is already harassing croatian fishermen by writing draconian penalties and thus shows its unwillingness to resolve this issue in a european spirit. i'm asking the commission to look into the legality of these punishments which are a serious existential problem for people who have done nothing wrong.
madam president, the principle of subsidiarity was introduced by the treaty of lisbon, article 5, but has it been applied successfully? well, i wouldn't say that we have a number of, as we see, member states that don't respect the principle of subsidiarity or, better said, decentralisation at all. of course the most famous conflict at the moment is the catalan conflict, however, we have a lot of situations in the european union, in the member states, where the member states simply do not want to take into account regional specificities and specificities, but rather want to go into conflicts and into additional centralization and "show muscle". we have a number of examples, but i will still point out one positive example that happened recently, and that is the italian situation where veneto and lombardy made the referendum legal and i think that maybe the italian model could be something that could be interesting for subsidiarity in the european union.
madam president, the european funds play an important role in the implementation of cohesion, regional and social policies, but they are not optimally positioned to achieve the objectives they set. because of their complexity and bureaucratic nature, these funds often do not reach their intended destination, especially those who need them most. in general, therefore, it is necessary to try to simplify the use of these funds in general, and in particular for rural, remote, mountainous and island areas, to introduce specific measures such as the creation of model projects specifically adapted to these funds and the provision of direct access, independent of higher regional and national authorities, to these small communities to access the funds in an easier way.
madam president, croatia has insisted from the very beginning on resolving the border dispute with slovenia in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, respecting international law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the slovenian authorities have engaged in any form of illegal activity in relation to the arbitration proceedings. croatia has therefore withdrawn from the agreement, following the legal procedure based on the vienna convention. the court of justice has nevertheless decided to continue its work unilaterally after the termination of the agreement by croatia, and other pressures are being exerted on croatia to accept an arbitral award which is neither legitimate nor legally binding for it. cooperation between member states should be based on dialogue, not on the gross violation of signed agreements, threats and blackmail with the blockade of croatian entry into schengen and the eurozone. the political pressure that croatia and the croatian people are under is contrary to the values of the european union, and i therefore call once again for the resolution of this bilateral dispute through the continuation of dialogue and the necessary cooperation.
mr president, 2017 was one of the most significant in the european union's 60-year history when it comes to common security defence. it's important to keep up the same intensity and get the first projects done as soon as possible. enough progress has been made on the brexit deal, and i stress again that all eu citizens must be treated equally in terms of their rights after the uk leaves. i particularly welcome the conclusions on the social dimension of the european union, education and culture. although they are largely the responsibility of the member states, they are among the most visible results of european integration. i am pleased that the conclusions also include budgetary resources for social activities in the context of the next multiannual financial framework. at a time when some of the world's most powerful leaders are irresponsibly questioning the devastating effects of climate change, it is important that we once again collectively reaffirm our commitment to the paris agreement. overall, the conclusions are a good basis for continuing the work this year, we have the opportunity to translate the commitment to these themes into concrete financial instruments within the draft multiannual financial framework.
mr president, the problem of migration and the situation of migrants who are on the territory of the union or waiting at its borders is becoming a long-term challenge to which we can no longer respond with ad hoc solutions. the recent migrant protests on the croatian-serbian border prove that the problem is still present, and some announcements that turkey may again let through several hundred thousand migrants in the near future are quite worrying. the citizens of a number of member states have condemned the approach to migration in the elections so far and the union must take this into account. political instability across the continent, and even in one germany, is a consequence of migration and its effects on society. it is high time that we decided, on the basis of clear and rigorous criteria, who europe needs, who europe must help, and who we will have to tell, in the interests of our own citizens, to seek happiness elsewhere.
mr president, today's vote on the commission's proposal, and in particular the adoption of amendment no 174, has done a great deal to help croatian fishermen in the adriatic. finally, this amendment allowed the deletion of the provision in the mediterranean regulation which restricted the use of swimming pool networks. croatia has been trying to return the use of the swimming pool network to the state it was in before joining the european union for a long time after joining the european union, and today, thanks to the report by mr mat, we have succeeded in doing so. the arguments of fishermen and scientists were taken into account, allowing fishing to continue while protecting the ecosystem. it is therefore important to adopt regulations that are adapted to the specificities of the region, as has been done today for the adriatic. the european commission took the arguments of a scientific study defining the maximum height of the swimming pool network and the height-to-depth ratio into account, given the highly variable configuration of the seabed, particularly on the eastern coast of the adriatic. i would therefore like to thank once again all those who have taken part in the adoption of this regulation and who have worked in particular in the committee on fisheries.
mr. president, as this report points out, life in the oceans is very threatened, especially since researchers this year found in longitudinal studies that the oxygen levels in the seas have decreased by 2% in the last 50 years. while this may sound like a small change, we must not forget that even a small change in an ecosystem can have a significant effect on the living organisms within it. the only organisms that can survive in such conditions where oxygen is constantly depleted are bacteria, but all other organisms are at great risk. the european union will continue its fight against climate change, not just climate change, but also the behaviour of people today who are seriously endangering the oceans with their bad habits. we hope to use innovative projects, blue technologies, the use of clean energy sources to promote environmentally sustainable infrastructure and protect the biodiversity of the oceans. that's why i supported this proposal.
mr. president, the fact is that climate change is affecting the most vulnerable groups in society, those who rely on natural resources for their livelihoods, but also those with less financial resources, namely women. they are disproportionately affected by climate change, because they are overrepresented in the poorest populations of the world, and they are especially vulnerable in developing countries because they don't have the same access to resources, education, employment opportunities, land as men, and they are still responsible for most of the care and household chores, and the production of food for the family. the concept of climate justice addressed in this report aims not only to draw attention to these differences but also to raise awareness of how climate change is not just a technical or economic problem, but also affects people's lives. taking into account that according to the united nations international organisation for migration, 200 million people could be displaced by 2050 due to climate change and the fact that women and girls are among the most strongly affected groups, i support this report in the hope that it will help to find new and more effective solutions to this problem.
madam president, mr. commissioner, the unrest in iran in recent weeks is fundamentally different from those in 1999 and 2009 because it has been held across the country in hundreds of cities. they were mostly poor and disenfranchised citizens of iran and they expressed their dissatisfaction with the regime as a whole, not differentiating between so-called reformists and hardliners. thousands of people were arrested during the riots, and several dozen, mostly young people, were killed. more prisoners have died in prison from torture. the european union's response to these unrest in iran has been delayed, too mild and unfair. the fate of the arrested citizens in a country that has punished political opposition with the death penalty since the beginning of the theocratic regime, especially since the mass executions of the opposition in 1988, the fate of these people today must be the focus of the european union's policy towards iran. the european union should demand the unconditional release of all those who have been arrested simply for demanding respect for their basic human rights.
madam president, mr. commissioner, the iran nuclear deal has unfortunately left aside the issue of human rights violations and the regime's neglect of its own people, while in iran today violence is escalating. dialogue with iran is important, but it must be constructive and contribute to resolving pressing issues. i see a great imbalance in the fact that iranian leaders are being summoned to brussels while the parallel regime they belong to on the ground is arresting thousands of people. and in addition to arrests, we're witnessing the murders of protesters and prisoners. the iranian regime must stop its violence against its own people and the european union should not be neutral in this regard. the iranian people are seeking answers to existential questions. the people need a government that cares about its citizens, not one that responds to their concerns with violence. we must unequivocally and urgently tell the authorities who raise their hands on their citizens that we will not tolerate it. we need to show the iranian people that we care. because silence is the sin of omission, and it brings us closer to the perpetrator and further away from the victim.
mr president, the impact of russian propaganda on the citizens of the union's member states is certainly not negligible, but the big question is how decisive it is in their decision-making in elections and referendums. i'm sure it's not that much. it seems to me that the european political mainstream, which is rapidly losing the trust of the citizens, and therefore the political power, wants to find in moscow its pedro, someone to blame for everything. yes, moscow certainly wants to exert some influence in europe, but it is not primarily responsible for the disappointment of our citizens. nothing is happening today that hasn't happened before. the great powers have always used various methods to destabilize each other. today, it's just another means to the same end. of course, we shouldn't just sit back and let this destabilize us, but i also don't think it's advisable to attribute superhuman qualities to putin in order to hide or mitigate our own clumsiness, incompetence and obvious mistakes.
mr. president, the famous collins dictionary has named the word of the year for 2017 fake news. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. so that tells us something about what it's about. mrs. caliente, thank you so much for bringing this issue to the agenda today, and i agree with you that we want zero tolerance when it comes to hate speech. we cannot allow the democratic values of europe that we have achieved to be undermined by russian propaganda. we want to fight against myths, manipulation, hybrid wars. it follows from all this that the aim is to destabilise the european union. mr. gonzales, i agree with you. we will not impose our way of life on anyone, but we want to preserve our way of life and we want to fight against propaganda. the truth is that the great powers, not the great powers but the undemocratic powers, have always used propaganda for their influence. we have to preserve our own, and i'm glad that the european union is taking all possible action to prevent fake news and hybrid wars.
madam president, first of all, i would like to commend my colleague, mrs tomc, and congratulate her on her excellent report and proposals. the launch of the youth employment initiative and the increase in funding for this purpose are indeed commendable. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on youth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the responsibility for each individual item of the process must be very clearly defined and the stage of the initiative implementation process must be known at all times. youth unemployment is indeed one of the key challenges facing the european union and this initiative must not be limited to the allocation of funds, but must insist on the implementation of concrete strategies in line with the education and labour market systems in the regions and member states. i consider that consistency to be crucial.
madam president, after the youth guarantee was set up, the member states of the union have set themselves the common objective of ensuring that young people receive a good and quality job offer, continuing education or an opportunity for an internship within a period of four months after they have completed their training or after their formal education has ended. i commend the report and the quality recommendations offered by the rapporteur in this report, in particular those on adapting measures to local needs and on improving communication on existing youth support programmes. in addition to the measures set out in the report, i believe it is crucial to continuously emphasise the importance of strengthening entrepreneurial skills for young people, which cannot be developed without a positive business climate, which leads us once again to conclude that structural reforms are the fastest way to quality employment for young people.
madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner and especially congratulate the rapporteur, mrs romani tomc, on her excellent report. it has actually visited the member states to ascertain the quality of implementation and the problems encountered by the member states, and that is why we have such a high-quality and good report, thank you for that. the youth employment initiative also sends an important message to young people, that we put them first and that it is very important for us to employ them and to give them new knowledge and skills so that they can get a job as easily, better and faster as possible. what this report clearly shows is that there is a lack of more concrete measures and activities that are done in cooperation with young people and that would respond as well and as well as possible to their needs. so, for example, in the republic of croatia, we heard from young people that they wanted more measures like incubators in universities, which would encourage them to realize their ideas and self-employment or, say, professional development, but during their studies and education, so that they would be ready for work after finishing school, and not just when they started learning to work.
written. a high youth employment rate is one of the most important elements of any 'healthy' economy. the 2008 financial crisis has significantly changed the labour market situation and has contributed to a sharp increase in the youth unemployment rate. the youth employment initiative was created with the aim of rapidly mobilising financial resources in the most affected countries, which are struggling with high levels of youth unemployment and inactivity. the programme covers young people up to the age of 24, but member states have the right to increase this limit to 29 years. it is important to emphasise that the measures are intended only to supplement national youth employment programmes, which have been suspended in some countries, and not to replace them entirely. the programme is financed 50% by the european social fund and 50% by the eu budget and is currently the most successful of all the european structural and investment funds in terms of implementation. there is still room for improvement, so work needs to be done on better data sharing and quality between countries. also, some countries use eu money instead of state money for youth employment programmes, which needs to change. i believe that the initiative is very important for the progress of the eu, because youth unemployment has become a common problem for all member states and we must tackle it together, at eu level. a high youth employment rate will create the conditions for a sustainable and cohesive recovery of the euro area economy.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission on this proposal. i think it's rare that there's a point on the agenda that unites us as much as this strategy of yours for plastics. since they say a picture speaks a thousand words, i want to show you today with this picture the plastic garbage that has plagued the southern coast of croatia, namely the city of dubrovnik, of which i am still a resident and former mayor. so the city, which is under unesco protection, is covered with plastic trash from neighboring countries that want to be candidates for the european union. i therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the commission and to all of us to be strict when it comes to the chapters on environmental protection. there are a number of conventions, there is the barcelona convention and many directives. however, these countries do not comply. so this is a unique opportunity for all of us to finally reflect on our destiny. i agree with all the statements made here regarding garbage and plastic. let's not repeat ourselves, but let's tighten the rules, make regulations. so, strategy yes, but as soon as possible with directives and as soon as possible with regulations that will bring us more and more together and free us from this plague that definitely has an impact on human health.
written. the european commission has not yet delivered binding rules in the context of the eu plastics strategy. there must be no place for single-use plastics in the current and future eu economy. such plastics their production, use and disposal, in addition to being environmentally unsafe and their impact on the health of citizens still unknown, are also contrary to the potential of a circular economy. to exploit these potentials to the full, products should be free from toxic substances such as those found in single-use plastic bags and other plastic products. europe produces 25 million tonnes of plastic waste every year, of which less than 30% is recycled. also, as much as 85 percent of the waste on beaches is plastic, if we're talking about the world's level. the european commission should therefore include appropriate plans on strong measures to limit toxic and hazardous substances used in the production of environmentally harmful oxo- and microplastics as soon as possible. for this reason, i welcome any future efforts by the european union to eliminate toxic substances from plastic products, reduce their use and increase the level of reuse and recycling of the corresponding waste.
madam president, commissioner, at a historic moment like this, when the mobility of people and their families is part of our daily lives, there is a growing need to regulate certain legal frameworks at the level of all the member states of the union. however, it is crucial to remain within the limits of the european union's competence and not to allow excessive legislative ambition to breach the rules of subsidiarity and to directly infringe what is the exclusive legislative competence of each member state. that is why i call on my colleagues to vote against amendments nos. 19, 28, 31 and 49. the adoption of these amendments will render the public policy of a member state irrelevant in decisions on parental responsibility, thus directly infringing the right of a member state to regulate family life by its own substantive law. the court of justice has repeatedly held that the member state has the power to determine the scope of its public policy.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, this is another example of a vague policy not working on time, of us being elected here once again, unfortunately, and of the european commission not working on time to protect european fishermen. norway is our partner and friend. in many ways we have intertwined interests and of course i can understand sometimes some situations that mean a kind of isolationism and selfishness and self-protection. however, she's not consistent with anything. that's the problem. that is why we expect you, mr commissioner, we expect the european commission to protect the interests of fishermen, european fishermen, in that area, in that sea which is close to our continent, close to our coasts, and that our fishermen be protected and that the snow crab be part of the right to fish in the svalbard area. i cannot help feeling that the fines that the latvian fishermen are receiving or have received are somewhat similar to what is unfortunately happening between two members of the european union, between croatia, from which i come, and dear, friendly, neighbouring slovenia. in the last few months, the slovenian police, the slovenian authorities, have been issuing fines to croatian fishermen. it's between two members of the european union. the european commission is not reacting, it is silent, and that is not good for fisheries policy, good neighbourly relations, friendship between member states. we have to do something here. we expect you, mr commissioner, and you from the commission to act and react, because this is an unsustainable situation at this moment in that part of the adriatic. and also, when we talk about an important issue that is directly related to fisheries, which is the issue of marine ecology, it's clear that in this case when we talk about snow crab we have a situation where invasive species that come mainly from the east eat almost everything they come across. but we, on the other hand, need to have answers to these issues because we haven't done enough to protect our seas. the other day we had a report from mr. matoa which had a number of environmental issues from the protection of immature fish. i voted for the possibility of swimming pool nets, i voted for many things that are directly related to ecology and help marine ecosystems. however, i think we have to put our hands on our hearts and tell ourselves that we have not done enough, not in the case of norway, the adriatic and many other situations in which we have found ourselves and that is why i expect you to react really quickly.
mr president, i certainly welcome the action of the european central bank, which has made it possible, through its measures, to have a period of favourable financing and to reduce the differences in interest rates between the member states, which is clearly evident in practice. this has contributed significantly to creating the conditions of stability, predictability, security and trust, which are the main prerequisites for the development of investments and new business ventures. i have one question for president draghi, and that is how to make favourable financing conditions as accessible as possible to all entrepreneurs and to riskier projects because to achieve stronger growth and to reduce the developmental disparities between member states, we need innovation, we need new knowledge and skills which are the basis of new technological solutions, which is the basis for productivity growth, all for better growth and more stable wage growth. however, funding is lacking for precisely those riskier projects that are driving us into development.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, mr president of the croatian government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular honour and pleasure for me to be discussing the future of europe with the prime minister of my own country. this is the first time that we have had an exchange of views with a leading figure in the croatian executive on the challenges facing the european union. croatia has long been shy when it comes to european issues. i am very pleased that this government has changed that and is now trying to pursue a proactive policy at european level. as a member of parliament, i can testify to very constructive cooperation with state institutions on many issues that are important for croatia and the european union, which was not often the case before. this government is finally thinking in european terms, but i'm afraid it has still not convinced the citizens of the importance of their participation in european policies. accordingly, the croats are taking a poor advantage of the benefits of membership of the union and this is a challenge we need to work on. unfortunately, for most croatian citizens, life has not changed for the better since 1 july 2013, so it is understandable that they do not consider membership in the union to be a particular success. of all the members, only bulgaria is behind croatia in terms of development, slowly catching up with it with a higher growth rate. the imf country report states that the process of implementing structural reforms in croatia has slowed down since accession to the union and that the investment climate is poor compared to comparable economies. in such circumstances, it should not be surprising that citizens show less interest in european policies, institutions and elections. therefore, mr president of the croatian government, i would like to encourage you to continue to change these unfavourable circumstances and not to delay in implementing reforms. this may sound a little unbelievable to many, but it is of the utmost importance for the future of the european union that countries like croatia are satisfied with it. countries that have no imperialist ambitions, but whose voice in the world can be strengthened by membership in the union. countries that didn't have a large and rich market, and by joining the union, they got exactly that. countries whose citizens have experienced dictatorship and authoritarian rule in their own lifetime still see freedom from repression and high democratic standards in the union. if croatia and the member states that share similar woes from the past and challenges of the present do not see added value and the embodiment of their decades-long aspirations in the union, then it has no future. if the european union becomes a playground for the big and powerful to impose their will on the small and weak, it will never reach its full potential. therefore, mr. president of the croatian government, i hereby call on you to articulate an authentic croatian position at the brussels table, which will not follow pre-established models and other people's ambitions. may all your initiatives be the fruit of the will of the croatian citizens who want a strong europe, but not without a prosperous, stable and sovereign croatia.
mr. president of the croatian government, your personal contribution to the pro-european agenda in croatia is great. your pro-european policies and views are known in croatia and in this house. croatia's progress in structural reforms under your government is visible in all segments of social development and these achievements are strongly integrating croatia into the european union. the schengen area is one of croatia's priorities. do you expect the croatian approach to be implemented for the mandates of this composition of the european commission and the european parliament? the protection of the external borders, as you yourself have said, is an important issue. do you think that this parliament and the council should support the entry and exit system for the registration of entry and exit data of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the member states of the european union should be implemented from the outset to include the republic of croatia as it is primarily a security issue?
thank you for your speech, mr prime minister, and welcome back to the european parliament. i want to ask you three questions. subsidiarity is a word you yourself mentioned. your colleague, former president, mr. weber, spoke of dual identities, regional and national. my question is whether you really want to implement subsidiarity and do you see it as a right principle for the european union, and in that case, of course, for our country? as you yourself have said, a government that is closer to the people can better carry out its duties. the second question is related to uljanik, where you also played a significant role and i want to ask you, however, globally, do you see shipbuilding as a true european industry where one product, a ship, will be a common european product? the third question concerns the western balkans. i am somewhat sure that you will be one of those people who will advocate and be for the entry of all the countries of the western balkans into the european union, but i wonder and would like to hear the political answer what does this coming of mr. president vucic soon to zagreb mean and what does it bring to the western balkans?
mr. president, it's been a long morning, you've had a very comprehensive opening statement and these answers. you've answered all my questions, more or less. i want to congratulate you on the european vocation of croatia, on your mainstream politics that you lead. i hope you will not allow cheap populists and extremists to take over the leadership in croatia, and at the same time i hope you will take care of the national interests. you have repeatedly stressed both schengen and the euro area. of course i hope that we will be in schengen by the end of the mandate of this commission. i would also like you to perhaps explain a little bit more what the interests of croatian entry into the eurozone are. you said we wanted to be in the inner circle of the union and that's what you insist on and we here who support you. you also explained very nicely that all the benefits we have from the european union, and that is what mr juncker mentioned, the peljesac bridge, and he said that there would be applause here if a bridge was built on the seine, and for the peljesac bridge we may not have reacted at the first moment. however, it's a big deal on the part of the european union. and the lng terminal and the renewables, we've already reached the levels we need.
mr. speaker, i welcome the prime minister of the republic of croatia. dear andrej, thank you for your excellent and comprehensive speech on the future of the european union and congratulations on the economic results and good indicators in the republic of croatia, on the acceleration in the use of european funds and especially on the adopted strategy for entering the eurozone in which the apostro-phyric importance of the convergence of the republic of croatia, therefore growth and development, is that the eurozone becomes our natural environment to which we belong. i have a question about cohesion policy. i am pleased that in your speech you stressed the importance of cohesion policy, which president juncker also confirmed. in addition to the financial envelope, it is very important to adopt the implementing rules related to cohesion policy quickly if we want to be successful in the next period. what actions do you intend to take to speed up the adoption of the regulation and to make it by the end of the session of this parliament and the european commission?
madam president, genital mutilation is a brutal form of violence against women and girls that has no place in 21st century europe. i believe that we all share the view in this house that there is a need for better prevention and education, the importance of empowering women, but also the need for stronger sanctions against those who subject women and girls to this brutal practice. but i'm sure we'll disagree on how this issue became a major european challenge in the first place. in an attempt to dilute the dominant christian culture and to distance europe from its values, liberals have for decades advocated a lax immigration policy and the right of cultural and religious minorities to live by their own rules. the scourge of female genital mutilation in europe is just one manifestation of such a harmful policy. not all world cultures in their original form are compatible with the european value system and their members must be required to...
member of the commission. – madam president, i think it is extremely important that we have had this debate, and i thank all the honourable members for their contributions because we need to understand what we are facing when we talk about female genital mutilation. what we are facing is not just habit or stereotype or tradition: it is the problem of taboo, and taboo is something which is deeply rooted in society and is sustainable over centuries. some of you spoke about the need to change the culture. i fully agree with that, but it will need more time and more intensive action, and also public debate because one of the features of the taboo is that it is something we do not speak about, something we do not want to hear about, something which we close our eyes to, and we don’t want to deal with the problem. that is why it is so important to discuss it. also, i want to thank all of you who emphasised the importance of the istanbul convention and its ratification in all the member states. i can tell you i feel a certain bitterness after some recent debates in certain member states, because i heard opinions from some national parliaments that the istanbul convention goes against the traditional family, or against the best traditions in the eu. we have to fight that opinion and we have to convince those who want to defend traditional family, by saying that it is not a good tradition to accept and tolerate violence against women and children. we still have many member states which have not yet ratified the convention, so i want to ask all of you, who can influence public opinion and political decision making in your states, to please do that, because we need it. the istanbul convention is a very efficient legislative instrument, not only against female genital mutilation but also against forced marriages, forced abortions and forced sterilisation – all those horrible things which women in the eu still have to face. we must help to ensure they are not exposed to such practices, and female genital mutilation is a particularly barbaric habit that we have to get rid of. let’s protect good traditions in the eu. let’s not protect traditions which serve as an excuse for barbaric habits. i agree with all of you who spoke about the need to come forward with efficient actions along the lines of prevention, protection and prosecution. i fully agree. i am sure that the commission will propose a series of actions along those lines. to conclude, i would like to share with you some experience from practice, taking the example of the field of prevention. we try to involve men, as well as women, in prevention, and we have heard many good reflections from fathers who have started to fight against this practice, saying that their daughters must not be exposed to it. this is a good sign, although we need many more to get on board. as for prosecution, it has some downsides because what see in practice is that girls are taken for a holiday to africa, where this procedure is done. the crime has thus been committed outside the eu, where there is no european jurisdiction, and it is extremely difficult to prove that those who took the girls to africa knew what was going on. it is difficult to prove, and we have to do much better in that regard. there is also a connection with prevention and the need to ensure that society does not turn a blind eye, because very often it is known beforehand that a girl is planning to go to africa. at school, or in the neighbourhood, people may be aware of this. we therefore need society too to be active and to help potential victims of this horrible practice. my last comment is on prosecution. some of you spoke about female genital mutilation being both physical and psychological torture. we have horrible cases in which family members – mothers, grandmothers, fathers – have been prosecuted for this practice, or for assisting with it on their daughter or granddaughter. then the victims have experienced further trauma by seeing their mothers or fathers prosecuted. these are the reflections from practice which show that this is an extremely complex phenomenon, requiring a very careful but proactive approach. i am sure that, when we join forces in making the links between prevention, protection and prosecution, we can change a lot, but we have to work together. thank you very much, once again, for this debate.
written. the practice of female genital mutilation should soon become a thing of the past. living in the modern world, such practices and situations are sometimes completely unconscious, and they are happening in our immediate environment. i support the istanbul convention which states that culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called 'honour' cannot justify any act of violence against women and that, in accordance with article 38 of the same convention, member states are obliged to criminalise female genital mutilation and the incitement, coercion or influence of girls to undergo this procedure. the physical, mental, and emotional consequences of this practice can affect girls and women for the rest of their lives. i believe that international organisations and states need to step up their efforts, primarily by creating links and connections between different regions, stakeholders and sectors for active cooperation with each other in order to succeed in abandoning unnecessary practices. the work of organisations working with communities on the ground in the eu and beyond on prevention and raising awareness is important. the integration of prevention of female genital mutilation into all sectors, in particular health (sexual and reproductive health), social work, asylum, education (sex education), law enforcement, the judiciary, child protection and the media and communication would contribute to the faster eradication of this appalling, unnecessary and harmful practice for women.
mr president, given the importance of the western balkan countries for the european union, the exposure of this area to external factors whose interests and values are sometimes contrary to the values of the european union, and the difficulties and possible dangers faced by the western balkan countries, i fully support the new orientation, the increased engagement of the european union in the western balkans, this strategy and the initiatives of the bulgarian presidency of the council of the european union as well as the summit in sofia which will be dedicated to the western balkan countries. i would like to emphasise two things in particular: i see 2025 not as a limitation or a goal, but as a positive perspective for both the member states and the western balkan countries, which must be measured by their own achievements, and, secondly, because of the similarities and connections of this area, this project can only succeed if it is joint and integrated.
mr president, further enlargement to the south-east europe area is an important step in the development of that area, but also of the european union itself, and must therefore be carried out in the right way and at the right time. whether that happens in 2025 is less important, it's important that it happens after all of those countries meet clearly defined criteria. at present, i must admit, we are very far from that goal because the main challenges, such as the recognition of kosovo by serbia, ensuring the equality of croats in bih, the agreement on the name of macedonia, border disputes, the effective prosecution of war crimes, minority rights, the fight against organized crime and the rule of law, remain unresolved. the role of the european union in this process must remain constructive. the non-integrated states of southeastern europe rely on our leadership and help to solve their problems. but until these problems are really solved, there is no point in speculating about the date of a new enlargement. these countries should be helped in the accession process, but without giving false hopes.
mr president, it has been less than a year since the white paper on the future of the european union was presented. it was worrying that only one of the five scenarios proposed at the time was open to a new enlargement cycle. however, today i am pleased that, just five months after president juncker said that the western balkan countries should be given a credible prospect of membership of the european union, we have the presentation of this strategy. the european union today must overcome scepticism about further enlargement, one of the union's most successful policies since its inception. the population of the western balkans accounts for only 3.6% of the population of the european union, but its importance for the upgrading of the european project in the 21st century is far greater. this is a time for far-reaching reforms to remove the existing bottlenecks that generate instability and backwardness. but resistance is to be expected, especially from so-called veto groups whose status quo ensures the enjoyment of undue privilege at the expense of the majority in society. moreover, the western balkans are increasingly a crossroads of interests between different powers. the european union is demonstrating its willingness to invest in its own prospects, security and stability. the success of the process depends not only on the success of opening and closing the negotiating chapters but also on the strong support of the citizens in the candidate country. at the moment, this support for eu membership among the citizens of the western balkan states varies markedly. i welcome the proposal that eu-western balkans meetings should be held every two years in future. the sofia summit will be the first of its kind in the long 15 years since the thessaloniki summit.
mr president, thank you for this strategy, to you and mrs mogherini and the commission. i also thank the bulgarian presidency for having chosen enlargement as one of its priorities. the commission is working on this and this strategy is the very development of this idea which, unfortunately, at one point at the beginning of this mandate was stalled. clearly, regional tensions need to be overcome, which is the most important and the most difficult, probably. however, we must realise that the security of the european union lies precisely in the stability and security of this area, the so-called western balkans or south-eastern europe. it is therefore very important that the european union is present, that it does not give up this area to russia or turkey, which at one time was a threat, and therefore i understand the reasons why the commission finally understood that enlargement should be high on the agenda. i agree that everyone has to meet the criteria, i know from croatian experience, we heard our prime minister talking about it this morning and therefore i will also join this sailing dictionary of yours where you said everyone by merit, that is, this is a regatta, not a convoy. so i believe there is room for bosnia and herzegovina to catch up with the two countries you're talking about, that 2025, so there is room left, if there is the political will to meet both the political and legal criteria for all countries to meet that date.
mr president, commissioner hahn, commissioner mogherini, personally, 15 years after the thessaloniki summit, this is a very emotional event, both for the entire western balkans and for bosnia and herzegovina, which we have been talking about. i sincerely hope that this year will bring great changes in bosnia and herzegovina, solely in finding one great compromise that will take the country out of the dead end it has entered and that will start on the path of integration, which will be the front runner as stated here. so 2025 is set as the limit for all the western balkan countries. there is no limit to countries, there is only a limit to people and in the human mind, either peace is born or war is born. i applaud what commissioner hahn said. so we export stability to avoid importing instability, and i consider this a great day. after the thessaloniki summit, i look forward to another summit in zagreb in 2020. i hope that by then we will have a stable bosnia and herzegovina on the way to the european union and that we will have peace and stability in the western balkans because without that we are leaving this area to the powers that are already present there and unfortunately have been operating out of control for a long time.
mr president, one thing is certain, the path of the countries of south-east europe, that is, the western balkans, to the european union is clearly marked and fully open. with this strategy, we are stopping the thinking that countries are negotiated with no real intention of actually becoming member states, and that is a very important message. i have three key messages. firstly, six countries are not at the same stage of the accession process, and this is something that commissioner hahn has particularly emphasised. if we want all six to have an equal chance of joining by 2025, then we need an individual approach and the opening of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, albania and kosovo as soon as possible. otherwise, they won't be able to keep up with the advanced montenegro and serbia. second message: it is good that we are increasing the ipe funds, but we must also increase the efforts for successful use, especially in bosnia and herzegovina. the goal is to find solutions to use, not reasons to block. the juncker fund should also be directed as much as possible towards these member states, which is not the case. and thirdly, i particularly support encouraging the resolution of outstanding issues with neighbours. it all matters. and the question of borders, cultural heritage and respect for minority rights, but i would like to put the issue of missing persons in particular. and now i feel the pain of the people who were in the european parliament at the conference on the missing mp tolic and all they want is to be able to attend the grave of their child, husband, wife, father, mother. imagine, in the 21st century, that this is the greatest desire of mankind. what democratic standards and rule of law can we talk about until this is resolved?
mr president, i would like to thank mrs danuta hübner and silvia pereira for this report because it was very delicate. i'm glad that, since there are fewer citizens, there are also fewer representatives and that's fairer and more just. this time, croatia is back at number 12, which it was in 2013, and i want to thank the creators of this report. however, the debate is moving in the direction of transnational newspapers. personally, i think the concept is good, but at this point, i don't see that we're ready for this concept politically or financially or organizationally. also, i would be in favor of this concept today if all countries were in the eurozone and if all countries were in the schengen area. since that's not the case, then i think we should expect that we all somehow get equal rights and that we become transnationally recognizable in that way so that we can also run as those from the big countries that are recognizable.
mr president, discussions on how to make the union more democratic and closer to citizens are needed and that is why i am pleased that we are discussing electoral law reform. but we must admit one thing at the outset: whatever formula we apply, it is impossible within the framework provided to make the european parliament the legislative body of the union in the full sense of the word. one reason is that not every vote in the european elections has the same value. otherwise, germany would have given almost two hundred times as many representatives as malta. this body can therefore derive its democratic legitimacy not only from direct elections but also from direct cooperation with the council. i would also like to see a better quality of cooperation with the national parliaments, which could also strengthen the legitimacy of the european parliament. the transnational lists, which have been mentioned often lately, would only distance the union from the citizens, since the turnout in these elections, due to the large number of candidates unknown to the citizens, would be lower than ever before.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regi board. mr president, what is important to stress is that the eib's role is indeed very important in the development of the european economy as a whole. the eib is to ensure the strengthening of the single market, the financing of projects for modernisation and the development of new activities, and what is even more specifically outlined in the treaty on european union, namely support for the development of less developed regions. this is a very important role for the eib in the implementation of cohesion policy itself. the eib thus finances advisory services in the preparation and implementation of cohesion policy projects through its instruments. it also provides funds for national co-financing, for capacity building. however, we cannot know how successful he is in this because there is not enough clear data related to these activities. that's why we're calling for transparency. and it's important to note that when we analyzed the countries that spend the most money, or the countries that lend the most money, they are france, germany, italy, spain and the united kingdom. so it's really hard to connect that to the underdeveloped areas.
written. civil society, or citizens' activity and participation in policy-making, is the foundation of democracy, and pressure on it is constantly increasing within and beyond the eu's borders. the trend of shrinking civil society space is particularly worrying, even among developed democratic states. civil society organizations, as well as individual activists working on social, environmental and other important issues, face a multitude of obstacles - from legal and administrative obstacles to intimidation, detention and arrest. such a negative trend has not escaped croatia either, where civil society organisations are restricted in their freedom of speech and action by political pressure and funding cuts. civil society is of paramount importance to europe, and therefore addressing this issue requires action by civil society - providing strong legal protection for ocd, as well as creating concrete political mechanisms and instruments to provide working conditions for those who fight for human rights and democratisation.
madam president, i have a feeling that we could debate for probably days without being able to agree on whether there is a scientific study for or against the repeal of the clock. however, i think we can ask ourselves one thing: when this directive was adopted, which we are discussing today and which we want to change, what was the consultation with citizens? how many citizens asked about whether or not to change the time, or was the directive just passed? we can ask ourselves, on what basis did other countries around the world make the decision to abolish the clock? was it a stupid decision or a wise decision, and are we stupid or wise to keep things the way they are? i would say in conclusion: do we have to wait for a citizens' initiative to gather a million signatures so that this house and the commission can start to consider this as an important issue, and not as an unimportant one, as some members of parliament have pointed out?
mr. president, the 384 votes in favor and 183 against are a clear signal to the european commission that it needs to address the analysis of the calculation of summer and winter time and needs evidence. in any case, i personally support summertime and i hope that the majority of our citizens in the european union, and in croatia, support it. anyway, it's about saving energy, it's about health. however, without a thorough investigation we would not be able to talk about this and that is why we voted today for a resolution directing the commission to carry out further investigations. i hope that it will come to this result that most of us desire, which is the summer time reckoning.
on behalf of the alde club. mr. president, i want to make it clear that i support tap, i support the trans adriatic pipeline, but i also want to make it clear that i want to stand in solidarity with those who will suffer because of it. and here we must help anyone who really wants to support the big projects that are important for the european union, but at the same time we must approach the citizens in this way and show our solidarity with them. and that is why i want to express my solidarity with my colleague from puglia, from italy, as i know that there are similar problems in croatia as well as here. the lng terminal that is to be built on the island of krk, that terminal that will be financed by the european commission, with the money that we are approving here in the european parliament, has serious problems in its implementation. the technology that is being attempted to be imposed now is something that is completely unacceptable. the principle of partnership with the local community is not respected by anyone here. we know that we have this principle in the european union. here, i have the conclusion of the county assembly of primorsko-goranska county in which it clearly states that they are for the construction of an lng terminal on the island of krk, but not for a floating terminal, especially not for a floating one with the technology that is now offered. so if we already have a partner who is willing to tolerate and accept one lng terminal, then let's make it environmentally friendly and acceptable to everyone who wants that terminal. of course, i'm talking about spending a little more money because we need to build a terminal on land, not floating, especially not the one that's being imagined with technology now that we might be eating quarnish shrimps full of chlorine. well, i guess that's not the goal. i don't think our goal is to destroy tourism, i don't think our goal is to destroy the submarines and marine organisms in kvarner. so what i want to advocate on this occasion is: let's do what's best for the people and for their lives because the other decision we have, the one from the municipality of omišalj that also talks about accepting the land terminal, but not the one that's being proposed. and why are we giving money to something the citizens don't want? and there's no partnership with these citizens. so i want to say that in addition to that location we know very well that in the northern adriatic we have other locations that are even better than that land terminal on the krk. we have a devastated area on uranus, so to speak, and a devastated area on plominus, and it would be much better to find another location. but if he doesn't want to give up the krka site, let's do it in partnership with the citizens.
written. the question of the situation in poland has long been before the european institutions, which have been following all events and developments in poland with caution. i understand the concern of colleagues who welcome and support the libe committee resolution to activate article 7, paragraph 1 of the treaty on european union, however, i note the need for caution so that the polish people would not perceive this move by the european institutions as a gross violation of their sovereignty and autonomy. the principle of subsidiarity, respect for the limits of national jurisdiction and acting within legal frameworks are fundamental values of the european union that we must not pass over lightly. the current misunderstanding between poland and the european union is of no benefit to europe or the polish people, and i therefore believe that we should insist on finding a solution that does not necessarily risk the spread of strong anti-european sentiment among the polish people. i would therefore advocate that we address the open issues in the eu-level dialogue, while respecting poland's right to self-determination, sovereignty and autonomy.
mr. president, first of all, i want to thank mrs. ayuso pilar and congratulate her on this case. i understand that this is a technical file and that it is about aligning with the new laws and aligning with the lisbon treaty. i think this report is an excellent basis for further negotiations, taking into account that we have 8% of exports from this sector and that 10 billion euros are in circulation in this sector, this is a very important dossier, and i am particularly interested in products with protected origin, but also in the system of geographical indications of origin. the traditional production of alcohol must be taken into account and i hope that the commission will also take this into account. what's important is the new online registry, also, the additional list of protected products and the protection of products against counterfeiting. that's what i'd put the emphasis on. i think this is an opportunity to mention the dubrovnik malvasia, especially the wine from the dubrovnik region which has been produced since the time of the dubrovnik republic and which is mentioned in the old dubrovnik statute and i hope this is an opportunity to talk and to include this product in the additional list of products of protected origin. i think we will find an agreement, an agreement between the commission and parliament, and parliament will retain the role it has had up to now. so i support everything the envi committee has concluded so far.
mr president, the construction of the european project was to create a common area of rule of law and free trade, in which civil and religious freedoms are respected and in which all citizens are free to be who they are, as long as they respect the law. unfortunately, the european project has become a powerful tool for imposing worldviews on member states and their citizens. instead of pluralism, we've got a uniform view of human and minority rights, and anyone who thinks differently is labeled an extremist, a hater or even a fascist. if we want a democratic europe where all citizens are happy and content, we must stop creating political and ideological monopolies and allow everyone to express themselves freely and live according to their values as long as they do not violate the laws and negatively affect the freedom of other people.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia was established by the un security council in 1993 to deal with war crimes committed during the conflicts in the western balkans in the 1990s. the european union has consistently supported the work of the tribunal. human rights violations and war crimes – whether in the past or in the present – have to be addressed. the tribunal carried out important work and contributed to ending a prevalent sense of impunity, hence contributing to peace as well as fostering reconciliation and strengthening the rule of law. the tribunal also contributed to the development of international law and legal praxis. it built up an extensive jurisprudence in international criminal law. the eu commends these developments that will contribute to future work in the area of international justice. the eu has always underlined the need to address impunity and ensure accountability, as well as to fully cooperate with and support the work of the tribunal. we condemn any attempt to minimise or deny war crimes and genocide. over the years, the eu has been supporting the tribunal in different ways, using various programmes and contracts. we have banned certain persons close to the fugitives from travelling to or through eu member states’ territory, and we froze their assets. the aim is to communicate to those affected by the conflict not only the findings of the tribunal but also the important concepts which underpin its work. these include the concept of individual criminal responsibility, the rule of law and respect for human rights. these principles are among the core tenets shared by all members of the european union. the council has reiterated the need to continue handling domestic war crimes cases without discrimination, as well as addressing impunity and ensuring accountability, including through meaningful regional cooperation, as well as full cooperation with and support for the work of the tribunal. the eu also called upon the governments concerned to pursue with greater determination the proper conduct of domestic war crime trials. the eu has made clear that political leaders should avoid statements and measures that could call into question the importance of reconciliation, and on the need to serve justice through the prosecution of war crimes. full cooperation with the tribunal is also addressed in the context of the stabilisation and association process and is an essential condition for membership for the countries of the former yugoslavia. for example, when accession negotiations were opened with the first country from the former yugoslavia – croatia – full cooperation with the tribunal was a key requirement. full cooperation with the tribunal is also an essential element of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia and of its accession negotiations under chapter 23 (judiciary and fundamental rights). this remains a matter of concern which the european union continues to raise with serbia. more generally, cooperation with the tribunal is a regular feature of the dialogue with western balkan partners. we are grateful to the european parliament for the support provided during the years, especially in urging the western balkans’ partners to cooperate fully with the tribunal in order to bring justice to the victims and their families, and in condemning the occasional promotion of regional intolerance and hate speech linked to the activities of the tribunal. when the tribunal closed down on 31 december 2017, it marked the completion of all its judicial work. the tribunal concluded proceedings against all 161 of the individuals that were indicted for serious violations of international humanitarian law. the tribunal’s successor – the mechanism for international criminal tribunals – was established to perform a number of essential functions. this mechanism provides a further framework in which to address the reconciliation. the european union fully respects the decisions of the tribunal and reiterates the need for full cooperation with its successor mechanism. to conclude, let me express my sincere hope, as we look back to the last twenty years, to see the dark chapters of the western balkans’ history being finally put to rest.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am taking this point on behalf of my colleague, commissioner hahn, who unfortunately cannot be here. there has never been a more timely moment to address the subject of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, or the broader issues of the legacy of past, impunity and reconciliation in the western balkans. these issues are directly addressed in the strategy for the western balkans, which the commission adopted on 6 february. it states that ‘the process of transitional justice is incomplete. the outstanding sensitive issues, such as the handling of war crime cases, including through full cooperation with the mechanism for international criminal tribunals and the kosovo specialist chambers, and the fate of missing persons, refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as the identification and removal of remaining landmines in the region, must be urgently addressed. the international tribunal has been a mainstay in the process of bringing justice to the region. as united nations secretary—general antónio guterres said at the closing ceremony of the tribunal in december last year, ‘the tribunal has pushed international expectations of accountability beyond what was anticipated in 1993, transforming how we speak about, and addressing, situations in which serious international crimes are committed.’ commissioner hahn has been in regular contact with both the president of the international tribunal and the chief prosecutor. both have made it clear that its achievements would not have been possible without the european union, without our political engagement and without our financial support – some eur 10 million in total – and without the leverage of our accession conditionality. so today i confirm that the commitment of the commission is as strong as ever, stronger indeed, as we must see that the closure of the tribunal is not the end of the matter. the successor to the tribunal, which is the mechanism for international criminal tribunals, is now well established. in the strategy which the commission adopted recently, we are explicit in our continued support. this applies in particular to regional cooperation. without such regional cooperation, perpetrators will continue to walk free outside the jurisdiction of national courts, and the families of the 10 000 still missing will not have their loved ones identified. our political support is essential, but so is our financial support. up to eur 1 million is available this year. our conditionality remains an integral element in the accession negotiations. more than this, it has been refined to reflect our ‘fundamentals first’ approach to the accession negotiations, allowing more thorough and detailed work than ever before. this work is set in the broader context of promoting reconciliation. we will work towards a more integrated approach, bringing many existing strands together. not only will this include the issues of war crimes, missing persons, and also landmines, but we will also look to education, youth and culture and the ongoing regional cooperation in many fields as vectors to support the reconciliation process. however, as our strategy adopted today clearly spells out, ‘regional cooperation, good neighbourly relations and reconciliation cannot be imposed from outside. the leaders of the region must take full ownership and lead by example. they must avoid and condemn any statements or actions which would fuel inter—ethnic tension, and actively counter nationalist narratives.’ there must be no place in the european union for inflammatory rhetoric, let alone for glorification of war criminals from any side. i would like the parliament to work closely with the commission on both of these aspects, in supporting the actions which the commission will undertake and also in being clear in the messages that we will need to put across if reconciliation is to become a reality.
on behalf of the ppe group of representatives. mr. president, i'm sorry we have to go back to the past again because it's obvious that without clarifying the relationship and the truth about the past, it's difficult to build the future. and you are all witnesses to the fact that these days we are talking intensively about the future of the european union. i believe you all remember the serb-montenegrin aggressive attacks on croatian vukovar and my hometown, under unesco protection, dubrovnik. i'm sure you haven't forgotten the genocide that happened in srebrenica, the first acknowledged genocide since world war ii. and it was, for the truth, about the greater serbian aggression and milosevic's desire for all serbs to live in one state, in a greater serbia. and the wars in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina were the result of these greater serbian aspirations. the hague tribunal had a role in prosecuting all war crimes, i'm glad you mentioned that, in my personal opinion it's necessary to face the truth. in my personal opinion, this trial has been very controversial, but i want to believe that serbia will continue to fairly prosecute its war criminals and that the perpetrators, as you said, mr. hogan, will not walk free; so that they can continue their journey to the european union unhindered. a series of crimes remained uninvestigated, but all the bright moments and values that the court was supposed to represent were overshadowed by the last verdict and the suicide of general praljak in the hague court.
on behalf of the ecr club of representatives. mr president, the hague tribunal was supposed to prosecute all the crimes that occurred in the wars that led to the break-up of the former yugoslavia and to establish a kind of rule of law on war events on the basis of which history would be written and conditions for reconciliation and coexistence in the future would be created. it's a little too much to say that the court has completely failed in its mission. the spared prosecution of some of the main architects of the war from the top of the yugoslav people's army and the intelligence services of the former yugoslavia, the shamefully low sentences for the ovčara massacre and the acquittal of the villain vojislav šešelj, the controversy that caused milosevic to escape the hands of justice, and the indictment of ratko mladić had to be reduced, then the politicization of the work of the prosecution are just some of the reasons why the icty cannot get a passing grade at the end of the story. the icty has failed to clean up the legacy of war and by punishing the real criminals, it has shown that war crimes do not pay. on the contrary, it is proof that international law is often misused for political ends and i fear that it has sown the seeds of future intolerance. mrs. panayotova says that now there will be reconciliation and that history will finally be put to rest. and you all know that only the truth leads to justice, and justice to lasting peace. and there was very, very little truth in this.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. mr president, the matter has remained open since the hague tribunal closed its proceedings. but one thing is certain, the victims of convicted criminals have received at least some satisfaction from the court's decisions. if it weren't for those sentences, criminals would be around us today, unpunished. individuals are condemned, not nations. and that's the only truth. however, it should be stressed that for every decision of the tribunal we have witnessed hypocritical reactions in serbia, croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. whether the verdict is acquittal or conviction, we would have a continuation of media warfare and verbal constructions by politicians who fancy themselves to represent entire nations. this inability to get out of the daily political game means an unwillingness to face the past. the most deplorable were the reactions of the church authorities, where the serbian patriarch called the work of the tribunal the work of the devil, and the catholic bishop kissed the hands of a convicted war criminal. taking as truth only those decisions of the court that are in the best interests of a particular country or political elite does not contribute to reconciliation or truth. although there have been some incredible technical lapses in the work of the court, its decisions should be respected by all. no one has the right to deny the genocide in srebrenica, as the greatest crime on european soil since world war ii. no one has the right to dismiss convictions for crimes committed for allegedly higher ends. there are no higher goals. life is the highest goal. the right to life is sacred. only a sincere face to the truth can bring redemption for all those who committed, supported or covered up crimes in the territory of the former yugoslavia.
mr. president, i thank commissioner hogan for the extremely well-spoken and well-intentioned reason why the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia was established. what is the purpose of this court's debate tonight? his job was to try individual criminals who couldn't be prosecuted in local courts, and his even more noble job was to bring about reconciliation in the former yugoslavia, which commissioner hogan was talking about tonight. how has this court responded to its mission? it's up to legal experts to judge that too. in order to make an effective analysis of its work, it is necessary to finally organize a scientific and professional meeting on the lessons learned by this court, where only legal experts will give an opinion on the work and effectiveness of the judgments from the legal side. as for the reconciliation and the effectiveness of the court in this regard, it is enough to look at the media coverage of this work to conclude, unfortunately, that the court has not fulfilled its task. judgments are used in political campaigns, as tonight, unfortunately, and here we have a case, and responsibility is sought in peoples and in collective guilt.
mr president, the end of the hague tribunal was as dramatic as its beginning, but the most dramatic were the circumstances in which it was set up. the world was passively watching the greater serbian aggression against croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. the un tribunal was finally established in 1993. it took 11,000 days of trial to decide 161 defendants; 83 were convicted and 19 were acquitted. the court, since its inception, has shown a whole series of conceptual and organizational flaws, a disparity in criteria, but it was a court that responded to a unique challenge because of the assumption that the national courts of the countries at war would not prosecute war crimes committed by their own citizens. its mission will be debated long and hard, and its legacy will be tested by the level of democratic maturity of the states for which it was founded and their relations with each other. the tribunal was supposed to be a generator of reconciliation and a confrontation with the past. however, many feel that the court, while having delivered judgments, has in many cases given way to political expediency.
mr president, the purpose of establishing the hague tribunal was to punish those responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former yugoslavia since the beginning of 1991, and therefore expectations of this tribunal were extremely high. however, the hague tribunal failed to prosecute the highest leadership of the yugoslav people's army for war crimes committed during the aggression against croatia. more than 6.5 million different projectiles were fired at vukovar during the siege, killing more than 4,000 people and causing damage estimated at more than a billion euros. and no one was held accountable for that. the hague tribunal was supposed to be guided by the principle of justice and the punishment of the worst and most serious forms of crime. however, the end of his work left a bitter feeling that serbia, as the main aggressor, was forgiven much that should have been punished. i would like the hague court to have concluded its work with credibility, confirming its authority, and not with a tragedy because of an unjust verdict on which even the judicial council did not achieve full consensus.
mr. president, there are many objections that can be made to the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. it's not a universal court, it applies to some countries only. the world's major powers today are not subject to any international criminal court. the court has left many crimes unpunished and unprosecuted, has drastically changed its decisions and has no uniform criteria. somewhere it's judged by command, sometimes by political responsibility, and sometimes it's judged by individual responsibility alone, both of which open up the space for political manipulation. the court's reputation in the western balkans is low and its contribution to reconciliation is not great. but this court has amassed a considerable body of documentation for further truth-searching and judicial decision-making and has certainly rendered a far greater number of judgments than would have been the case had it not been for this court. the court's work, despite all its shortcomings, deserves a positive appraisal.
mr president, croatia is one of the initiators of the establishment of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. it was a reasonable act of a country that experienced the aggression of a communist military power, perhaps the last in europe with an ideological predisposition, and predominantly in the function of occupying croatian state territory and creating the so-called great serbia. we believed that the court would try the instigators of aggression, not only against croatia but also against the neighboring countries, slovenia and bosnia and herzegovina, because the aggressor was the same for all. true, in the wars provoked by the greater serbian aggression, crimes were committed on all sides to a greater or lesser degree. this was true in world war ii, but the trial after its conclusion was launched exclusively against the defeated axis powers. the court was established by a resolution under chapter 7 of the united nations charter. in the long-running trials, numerous high-ranking officials, commanders of all the warring parties, both those who started the aggressive war and those who only defended themselves in it, were accused. whether the court has served its purpose will be the subject of much controversy. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the croatian authorities regarding the alleged violations of the rights of the defence.
mr. president, the victim and the defendant cannot have a hypocritical reaction to the verdict, only a sincere reaction to the injustice. and the aggressor and aggressor in this case was serbia, which did not want to accept the constitutional right of the former yugoslav republic to secede and become independent. they have hypocritical reactions. the hague court has in some cases fallen into the trap of equating responsibility with making judgments that are not based on law and evidence, and therefore created judgments that have deepened the pain and suffering of the victims. so, despite some well-done work, we can't say that it has served its purpose, which is the truth and expressed respect and justice to the victims.
madam president, i congratulate mr erdőss on a report which is crucial for the beekeeping sector in the european union because it comprehensively identifies the problems of beekeeping and pollination and proposes measures which should support efforts at european and member state level to conserve bees and other pollinators. i am pleased that my amendments, which i tabled with the support of my colleagues from the european people's party, have been adopted, which stress the need to increase funding for the beekeeping sector, ensure quality honey for consumers and protect bee communities. for more than half a million union citizens, beekeeping is a main source of income, while food production and the preservation of biodiversity depend on pollination by bees. i therefore call on the european commission to increase funding for beekeeping in a way that adequately supports the important ecological service of bees as pollinators and to include a new system of direct support for beekeepers by community. i also ask for the honey directive to be amended with regard to the labelling of honey so that european consumers know exactly the origin of the honey they buy. finally, i am proud to say that croatia is one of the few member states that is implementing measures to protect native bee species and i would like other countries to join as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to recall that many years ago in pazino, in istria, we launched a demonstration we called the honey days. so much enthusiasm, so much love for this product and for the bees themselves, i can truly say that in my 27 years of political career i have never seen. so much happiness and satisfaction that we made such a demonstration and so much satisfaction of the consumers who came to this demonstration, it was really rare to see. so i believe that the two issues that we have discussed here today should be given priority. support for honey producers, beekeepers, through the new common agricultural policy and, of course, protection of their products. without protecting their product, we'll be wandering around again, again not knowing what's on our table, what we're eating and how healthy it is. i am therefore convinced that this report and what the commissioner said are going in that direction and i want to believe that beekeeping will have a new status in the european union after 2020.
written. i believe that the importance of the beekeeping sector in the european union is much greater than the statistical indicators themselves if we know enough about the importance of honey as a food and the health value of bee products. beekeeping must indeed be at the heart of european agricultural policy, and it is therefore important to increase funding for beekeeping, which is currently not at the level of importance it is for the quality of life of eu citizens. i support the increase in the budget for annual programmes from the current 36 million euro to 47 million euro as proposed in the report. the promotion of healthy nutrition and the health value of bee products, honey, propolis and others should certainly be strengthened. croatia, along with bulgaria, romania, portugal, spain, france and hungary, is one of the eu countries which, due to its biodiversity and beekeeping tradition, can offer the highest quality honey and for this reason we must all work together at eu level to successfully oppose the import of adulterated honey from china, in order to protect consumers and our beekeepers and the health of people in general. we must make a very strong stand for the european beekeeping sector, for quality honey for our consumers and better conditions for our beekeepers, and against the import of adulterated honey, counterfeiting hidden behind indefinite labels without the necessary information on the country of origin and the type of honey.
madam president, at the last session of parliament i warned the commission about the opposition of the regional authorities of the primorsko-goranska county and the local authorities of the island of krk, especially the municipality of omišalj, to the construction of a floating lng terminal in omišalj. i have to do that on this occasion. it's unbelievable that with 101 million euros we're funding a project that we want to impose on one local community. citizens and ngos are strongly opposed to a floating terminal, but they accept a land-based one that already has all the necessary documents, even a location permit. why not accept their extended hand? i don't know where in europe local communities have decided to constructively accept such heavy, demanding industrial facilities. what we need is an open, honest dialogue without a fig in our pocket. so for the overall energy strategy of the european union, it is not crucial whether the lng terminal in croatia is on land or floating? it's important that we build a terminal that works for everyone.
madam president, the bokel navy was founded more than 12 centuries ago, when the kotor sailors participated in the takeover of st. tryphon. it is the cultural and spiritual heritage of the catholic church and the croats, the indigenous people of boka kotorska. therefore, we were all struck by the news that montenegro decided to include the bokel navy, independently, without croatia, in the unesco list of intangible cultural heritage of humanity, all the more so because it is included in the national register of cultural property of both countries. croatia is seeking a joint nomination that will evaluate the role of croats and the importance of st. tripuna through the candidacy of the bokel navy. the denial of the fact that the bokeh navy is the dominant heritage of the bokeh croats strikes at the core of the minority rights of croats in montenegro and is part of a trend that directly accelerates the disappearance of the remaining minority croats in the boka area by suppressing their cultural identity. such an approach by montenegro, which is a candidate for membership in the union, is a gross violation of the rights of the croatian minority and is contrary to the fundamental values of the european union.
mr. president, it is our duty to take all measures to protect honest entrepreneurs and taxpayers, to protect citizens from those who carry out activities and earn in our countries, but find ways to avoid paying taxes and thus not only damage the state budget but also unfairly compete in the market and destroy quality entrepreneurial ventures. we have to prevent another tax scandal, the panama and paradise papers. that is why the amendments to this directive are important. the exchange of information on detected unfair tax practices is key, but more is needed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax advisor has been able to obtain a profit margin for the tax advisor in the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. better information exchange, education of tax administrations, exchange of knowledge and experience, involvement of financial institutions and auditors in disclosing information to tax administrations about potential tax avoidance situations are key to creating a fairer tax system and markets that will be an incentive for new job creation, which is what we want in the european union growth and development on a quality basis. tax evasion certainly does not contribute to this.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. if we want the mobility of capital and people and a functioning single market, we need clear rules on how the actors behave in it. we must always bear in mind that additional regulation costs and that large economic operators will bear this cost much more easily than the medium-sized and small companies that form the backbone of the european economy. i therefore once again call for a change in tax policies, which must be incentive-based, while penalties for avoidance and evasion should be made more severe. in this way, these harmful practices and criminal offenses become unprofitable and fewer and fewer entities will even try to hide their money from the state.
madam president, cutting off the sources of revenue for jihadist organizations is the foundation of an effective fight against terrorism. i support all mechanisms that will effectively curb terrorist financing, including better surveillance of religious institutions that have indications of being involved in spreading extremism, but these mechanisms must be selective enough not to involve innocent citizens and negatively affect their freedoms. we must not forget that the financial and logistical support of terrorists, directly or indirectly, often comes from ourselves. our hypocritical foreign policy of refusing to clearly identify certain countries as proven sponsors of international terrorism and of recognizing and arming groups that are not our true partners also contributes to the strengthening of jihadists. for our own sake, we must be much more consistent and cautious, which means that we must finally have the right strategy and not be guided by everyday political motives.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, you know very well that some member states are still trading with those that we have been told we cannot trade with. so, we're talking one thing here, and doing another. if laws are passed that we all have to work together to fight corruption, then we all have to work together, not that some countries can and some countries can't. so the same laws should apply to everyone.
on behalf of the ppe group of representatives. madam president, equality between women and men is a fundamental value of the european union, enshrined in the treaty on european union and promoted as a fundamental priority in the union's external action. this theme 'challenges and opportunities in achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in rural areas' at the 62nd session of the united nations council on the status of women is very important to me in order to eliminate gender inequalities. in view of the increasing urbanisation of large numbers of families moving from rural to urban areas, it is very important to provide a variety of well-thought-out incentives for young women and families to develop and thrive in rural areas. one of these incentives must focus on gender equality, as the majority of women in the world live in rural areas and discrimination against women in such areas has not been sufficiently discussed. we all know that education is important and that it plays a crucial role in every person's life. full access to education must be provided to all women in rural areas for a better quality of life, but also to eliminate the gender pay gap. we also have to take into account the climate change we are witnessing, which is affecting the rural areas and the women who live there the most. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. our union must take the lead in the fight against inequality between women and men and that is why i consider this recommendation to be good material and i hope that we will continue in this direction and that the union will continue to lead in the fight against inequality.
written. one of the eu's founding principles is to respect and work towards greater equality between women and men. the social and economic circumstances and living conditions have changed considerably over the last decades, and so work is being done to improve the position of women and girls and to challenge gender stereotypes, where the eu should be a leader. end all forms of discrimination against women and girls worldwide and work towards the elimination of all forms of violence that constitute grave violations of their fundamental rights and are a direct consequence of such discrimination. all governments should develop programmes to eradicate sexual and gender-based violence and harmful practices such as child, early and forced marriage, female genital mutilation and human trafficking. on the other hand, investment in education, lifelong learning and vocational training for women and girls, especially in rural areas, especially in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) and entrepreneurship and innovation, is needed, as these areas are important tools for achieving the sustainable development goals, and to promote equality in the agricultural and food sectors, tourism and other industries in rural areas.
madam president, the protection of women and other family members from violence must be high on the list of priorities for all member states. but the problems with ratifying the istanbul convention arose not because of the reluctance of member states to protect women from violence, but because of controversial parts of the convention itself. the first problem is that it equates state institutions dealing with human rights with civil society organisations, and gives the expert body grevio too much power in implementation. when we add to this the fact that the states undertake to finance ngos to the extent that grevio considers appropriate, it is clear that they lose some of their sovereignty. the convention, i believe, would have been ratified by all the member states of the union long ago if it had focused solely on protecting women from violence, without promoting gender theory and attempting to disempower national states. i therefore call on the croatian authorities once again, for the reasons stated above, not to ratify the istanbul convention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, violence against women cannot be tolerated in our society. it should be fought with every means available. the istanbul convention will reinforce measures to prevent this violence and to protect women from it. it will make our society a safer place for women and girls. we have to do everything in our power to stop violence against women and to support the victims. ratification of the convention by the european union is an important step and a powerful signal for all the victims, showing that the eu takes their situation seriously and is acting to end the violence.
written. the cost of violence against women at eu level is 1.8 per cent of eu gdp, or 228 billion a year. but i don't need numbers to know that human life and dignity are the most valuable! there is still no strategy at european level, let alone a law, to condemn such violence. in the eu, seven women die every day as a result of violence. we can't wait a day!
written. it is the right of a member state to accept or refuse to ratify any international convention, including the istanbul convention, on its own, respecting the opinion of its own citizens. the argument that the fight against violence against women is possible only and exclusively through the ratification of the istanbul convention is incorrect and unfounded. croatia has already incorporated into its legislation all 48 measures and mechanisms to combat violence against women provided for by the convention. it is therefore not necessary to ratify it and thus allow the introduction of those provisions which do not in any way relate to the fight against violence against women, but which directly violate the principle of subsidiarity and fundamental human rights guaranteed by existing, legally valid national and international provisions. for this reason, it is necessary to reject the implementation of an ideology imposed through an unclear and ideologically colored definition of rod. gender as a legal concept does not exist and is an unscientific concept, and it is therefore wrong and unjustified to make the introduction of such a concept conditional on the member states, since it brings nothing but a climate of legal uncertainty.
mr president, every day in the european union, some 11 million parcels are delivered. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the prices of the postal services in the prc. this regulation puts order in a very illogical market where, for example, delivery in one direction was three times more expensive than delivery for the same distance in the other direction. this regulation will also result in the growth of e-commerce. delivery is the most important factor for consumers when they buy online. as many as 70% of eu citizens complain that delivery is too expensive for them, and 50% of them do not know what to do in case of a problem. i am therefore particularly pleased that the obligation has been adopted that the trader must indicate to the consumer, when making a purchase, all the delivery methods available to him, with a price comparison. also, before buying, the consumer must be informed of what to do in case of a problem. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and my colleague lucy anderson for a job well done.
written. the increasing growth of the parcel delivery sector is creating a need for transparency in the price of services. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the market for electronic communications services. the availability of information on the prices of delivery services should lead to an increase in citizens' confidence in cross-border delivery. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the information provided by the member states is not publicly available. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for online retail services, in particular the impact of the new rules on the market for online retail services. the commission notes that the measures are aimed at improving the quality of the services provided by the postal services in the republic of croatia. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the delivery prices will be expressed and published in a more transparent manner to prevent possible malpractice. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any further information.
mr president, the original directive was adopted with the aim of increasing road safety and driver safety, and the additional purpose is to promote the profession of driving in order to stimulate young people's interest in this profession. the question, however, is how far the proposed amendment to the original directive will actually deliver results and how far it will be an additional and unnecessary complication or unnecessary administrative, financial and time burden for drivers, thus having a negative impact on the achievement of the additional purpose. the commission notes that the measures are not intended to limit the impact of the measures on road safety. there is a double need to train drivers in what they do every day, thus gaining practical experience. road safety would certainly be improved by better driver conditions, better quality of vehicles, and better roadworthiness checks, as already regulated. the desire to promote the profession is certainly justified, but its success depends more on working conditions, working hours, wages, mobility and can be achieved through these forms of regulation rather than through additional training which burdens drivers and potentially discourages young people from entering the profession. finally, i think it is really necessary to reconsider whether this regulation is necessary at all, whether it achieves its purpose or whether its disadvantages in terms of additional burdens for drivers outweigh its potential benefits.
madam president, the regions that are lagging behind do not need charity nor do they want to be parasites who will spend other taxpayers' money unplanned. the more developed countries need first of all the knowledge and best practices on the basis of which they will develop independently in the direction their inhabitants want. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's cohesion policy and its implementation in the member states. a key recommendation in this report is that of specialising strategies for individual regions as their needs and challenges differ. one size fits all solutions don't usually work, and i'm glad we finally recognized that. this initiative is currently focused on 47 regions in eight countries, not including croatia. as some parts of our country are also facing rapid youth exodus, falling incomes and rising poverty, i ask, mrs crețu, that they be included in the definition of regions lagging behind at nuts iii level.
madam president, the negotiations on a new relationship between the european union and the united kingdom are more complex than any negotiations the union has had with its global partners to date. we knew it would be like this and i'm sorry to see that both sides of this process have gone unprepared. the united kingdom, on the one hand, is still shaping its desires and ambitions in an internal political struggle, while the eu, on the other hand, is torn between the need for a quality trade agreement with a very close partner and the establishment's desire to punish the british by example. today, both sides are still stuck at the same point. the united kingdom is a member of the union and fully aligned with the eu27. and after brexit, it will remain a country with the same values and strong democratic institutions, and, don't forget, home to millions of europeans. if these two parties cannot reach an agreement, then it is clear that either the negotiator is unwilling or unable to do so.
madam president, i wonder if the next summit on march 22nd and 23rd will be able to resolve this many issues on the agenda. in any case, i am glad that there are economic issues and that there are foreign policy and foreign action issues. i am glad that jobs, growth, competitiveness and, of course, the common market are mentioned. last week our epp group was in valencia where we discussed the digital wave, in which the european union must lead. i consider this to be a very important topic for the forthcoming council meeting and i am pleased that it will be the digital europe that will be discussed. i personally believe that innovation can change the lives of our citizens, and our task is to make innovation the top priority of the next era. we see that the european economy is getting stronger, we see that growth has increased beyond expectations, that unemployment has decreased, that investment is recovering, that the state of public finances is improving. but we must be careful about our relations with the united states. they must not be based on confrontation, as mr juncker said. it's important to reach a compromise. i am also pleased to mention that president juncker visited the countries of the western balkans or south-eastern europe, as we like to call them, and i am pleased that he noted that they believe in the future of europe, but as mr fleckenstein said, it is up to us to do our job, to help them along the way. we must give these countries our full support and enable them to meet the conditions for joining the european union as soon as possible.
madam president, next week's council meeting is a good opportunity to take stock of the state of play in the european union, to see where we are with some of the most important initiatives and legislative proposals. i support the focus on jobs, growth and competitiveness, on monitoring the implementation of the european pillar of social rights and the commission's proposal on the european labour authority. washington's announcement of additional tariffs on an ever-growing list of products is demanding a response from european leaders. the european union needs a strategy to deal with these threats. as the croatian representative, i support the planned adoption of conclusions on the western balkans ahead of the may summit in sofia. i hope that the conclusions will overcome certain reservations about enlargement. the countries of the western balkans deserve a credible membership perspective. the upgrading of the european project in the 21st century is of paramount importance for the future of the union, and enlargement is one of the pillars of european identity and one of the most successful policies of the european union since its inception.
madam president, the european council, in its debate and conclusions on the so-called western balkans, has the opportunity to establish the real situation on the ground, set realistic targets and send a clear message that no non-integrated country will become a member until it meets all the criteria. we are witnessing the european union, this supposed oasis of human and civil rights in the world, ignoring the fact that one of the candidate countries is headed by serbia, an authoritarian ruler who threatens democratic standards and the rule of law, prevents free elections and tramples on media freedom. tolerating aleksandar vucic is just a confirmation of the long-recognised european hypocrisy that is causing the union to lose its reputation in the world. let us not forget that the accession process is completely meaningless if the candidate countries do not make significant progress through it. not just declarative, but substantive. the way vucic is running serbia is a clear sign that we shouldn't expect such progress from that country while he is at its head.
madam president, i would like to welcome commissioner oettinger and thank and congratulate all the rapporteurs and colleagues who worked on the opinions on these two reports. there are four main messages. first, the eu budget is too small to meet all the challenges we face. the second message is that this is precisely why we need much more coordination and synergy with member states' budgets. the third message is that cohesion and agricultural policies are key because they strengthen the single market and benefit everyone, especially the most developed member states, which are also net contributors to the eu budget. and fourthly, i join my colleague, mr mureşanu, in this message in stressing that our aim must be to reach agreement as quickly as possible and to adopt the budget as quickly as possible if we are to have the implementation of the budget on time.
madam president, the cohesion policy beyond 2020 is being called into question, at least in the form in which it exists today. i agree with the rapporteurs that it should remain the main investment policy of the union because without reducing the development gap between member states we cannot have a fully functioning single market. as long as there is a clear disparity in development, there will be a perception that the more developed countries are taking advantage of the poorer ones and profiting from them. such a perception necessarily leads to discontent and mistrust, and it cannot be the basis on which to build a stable union. cohesion policy must survive and grow stronger, but it must also remain focused on what it does best. i cannot therefore support the creation of a european democracy fund to invest in civil society, because there are much more effective ways of achieving cohesion objectives. linking asylum, migration and integration policy with cohesion policy is also not a good proposal because it broadens the focus on issues on which there is no consensus, which is detrimental to cohesion policy itself.
mr. president, madam commissioner, 353,935 is the number of people killed in the war in syria, during the seven years it's been going on, whose identity is known. the syrian observatory for human rights estimates that the total number of victims has exceeded half a million. in exactly two days, we will enter the eighth year of the war in syria that has left 12 million people homeless and displaced. in seven years, syria has been ravaged by one massacre after another. it was one of the bloodiest conflicts ever, which caused the greatest humanitarian crisis the world has ever known. let's not forget that in the midst of the war, daesh in the besieged syria carried out a genocide against the christian population. syria needs peace, not further escalation of violence. temporary ceasefires have not provided a permanent solution. humanitarian corridors cannot become a way of life for syrian citizens who have become refugees inside and outside their own country. we have called because the war in syria has gone too far and it is time to end it.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. personally, i think that the role of the european union should be different and more proactive, and it seems to me that what we are seeing today in syria, but also in the middle east in general, is an indication of the inadequate activity of our foreign policy in the european union. the easiest thing to do is to shift responsibility or money to someone else to solve problems. i think it would be much more useful for both syria and the entire middle east if we showed a different kind of responsibility.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last summer, the council of the european union asked me and the commission to propose a new eu strategy on central asia, to be adopted next year. as you might know, a few months ago, during my second visit to the region, i visited three of the five central asian countries. i was in samarkand, where we had a very positive eu-central asia ministerial meeting. we have that ministerial meeting every year, which proves to be extremely useful and i am glad for the european parliament’s continuous contribution to our work and also for your efforts to put this issue on the agenda, where it should be. central asia is often perceived as a remote part of the world but, in fact, europe and the five central asian countries are now closer than ever. i believe this is more important now than before. their neighbourhood is our neighbourhood. the silk road is not only a literary memory of the past, but one of the most important global infrastructure projects. central asia is, even more than in the past, a crossroads between europe and the far east, between russia and south east asia. events in afghanistan or in the middle east are as important for us as for our partners in central asia. their security is clearly also our security. we see clearly that, as the world is changing, this region is changing, too. free elections and peaceful transitions of power are becoming a more regular feature. central asia has become more independent and stronger, a partner for the east and for the west, not the chessboard for some great game among empires. today, central asian countries are seeking a closer partnership with the european union. this is the clear message i got from all the leaders and ministers i have met from the region, especially in the last year: they are eager to deepen and increase cooperation with the european union in all the different sectors. i believe this is a political will and the political signal we should get. they see us, the european union, as a reliable, predictable, cooperative power with no hidden geopolitical agenda. and they see us as an indispensable partner for sustainable development and for modernisation. i would like to focus on three aspects of our relationship where we have already achieved a lot and where i see a lot of potential for greater progress. first, we are partners for change. for instance, we have supported kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and kazakhstan on their way to joining the world trade organisation, and we want to do the same for uzbekistan and turkmenistan. european companies are keen to invest in the region, to the benefit of both the european union and central asia, and improving the business environment is an interest we share. also, to this end, we have launched a new generation of enhanced partnership and cooperation agreements. we signed one with kazakhstan, we are negotiating one with kyrgyzstan, and we look forward to opening negotiations soon with uzbekistan. these agreements are also an incentive for domestic reforms, in line with international values, norms and standards, so i hope that the european parliament will soon give its consent to the ratification of our partnership and cooperation agreement with turkmenistan. when we talk about change, it is not just about business. i want to be very clear on this. it is, first and foremost, about expanding rights all around the region for the sake of the people of central asia. with independent media and an open space for civil society, institutions in central asia will be more credible, states will be more resilient in times of crisis, and economists would be more solid and attractive. uzbekistan and kyrgyzstan are engaged in important reform processes. we want to accompany them on this path. this is what i discussed during my visit last december, if i am not mistaken, to both countries and we want to work for that example to be followed by others in the region. second, we are partners for regional cooperation. central asia remains one of the least integrated regions in the world. in samarkand i saw great interest in our european experience on how to solve common problems through regional cooperation. central asia faces many challenges that no single country can address alone, from water scarcity to the fight against international trafficking, from trade to the issue of foreign terrorist fighters and the radicalisation of, especially, the younger generations. when it comes to intercontinental trade routes, central asian countries want to be more than just transit countries. they hope that these big infrastructure projects will bring sustainable development to their countries and support trade within the region, not only through the region. these are demands we can only support. it is also for this reason that i intend to present to the october foreign affairs council a new strategy on connecting europe to asia. it will highlight the key principles which we believe should guide international work to promote connectivity. this new strategy will aim to give our partners, including central asian countries, more than one choice. it should help them avoid the debt trap and the trap of poor-quality projects. last, but not least, the third sector of cooperation. the european union and central asia are partners for security. we have a shared interest in supporting, for instance, an afghan-led and afghan-owned peace process. uzbekistan will co-host a regional conference on afghanistan at the end of march, in a few weeks from now. this is essential for our own security, and i will be there, personally, with the afghan government, with our central asian partners and with all our international interlocutors. international cooperation is the only way to tackle challenges that are cross-border by definition, such as radicalisation or the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters. we cooperate on border management with central asian countries and we have recently decided to deploy an eu counter-terrorism expert to central asia, who will be based in bishkek in kyrgyzstan. we will also participate in the high-level regional conference on counter-terrorism which tajikistan will be hosting in early may. it is quite clear, also from the debates we have had previously, that we live in a world that is moving fast but not always in the right direction, which is quite dangerous and challenging. we are probably living in the most delicate moment since the end of the cold war and there is very little space for positive news. still, when i travel to a region like central asia i see more opportunities to take than threats to tackle: opportunities for change, for democratic perspectives, for economic growth and for cooperation on the different sectors i have mentioned now. this will be the core of our work, and our new strategy that the council asked for, and the european parliament has an important role to play in this process. so let us invest together in this partnership because security and development in central asia is also our own security and development.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, madam high representative, the characteristics of central asia's position today are the negative legacy of the soviet era, undeveloped democratic institutions, non-competitive economy, environmental problems, the collision between two great powers, china and russia, whose geostrategic interests do not have to be compatible with the progress and prosperity of central asia, economic and energy dependence on russia and exposure to instability and terrorism from the south. i support the commission's statements and the council's conclusions on central asia, in particular those concerning the promotion of the use of renewable sources, the increase of energy efficiency, the strengthening of the fight against terrorism, effective border protection, the full use of the education initiative, and i think that particular emphasis should be placed on the necessary assistance from the european union in the peaceful settlement of the outstanding issues and disputes that exist between the five central asian countries. i would like to commend the overwhelmingly positive tone that the high representative, while pointing out all the problems, nevertheless expressed when speaking about the prospects and potentials of central asia. but much changed in 2007 with the adoption of the eu-central asia strategy. china is much more ambitious and powerful today, russia has more aggressive policies, and the threat of terrorism is far greater than it was in 2007. i therefore support the council's request and parliament's position that a new strategy for relations between central asia and the european union be adopted as soon as possible.
written. the figures are positive and show that the employment rate in the eu is growing, reaching 72,3% in the second quarter of 2017 with a total of 235,4 million people employed, which is progress towards the europe 2020 target of an employment rate of 75%. employment growth is stronger among older workers, highly skilled workers and men, while it is weaker among younger workers, low-skilled workers and women, whose advancement needs further work. however, despite the slight improvement in employment, the youth unemployment rate remains alarmingly high at 16.6% and 18.7% respectively in the euro area. the 2018 annual growth survey, together with the integrated european pillar of social rights, is an important part of the overall policies for quality jobs, sustainable growth and investment, aiming at increasing productivity and wages, job creation, reducing inequality and poverty and improving social protection and access to and quality of public services. i also consider this report to be an important indicator for member states as to what they should take into account when developing their national policies and reform plans. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime.
madam president, the information technology revolution and the modernization of supply chains have provided companies with a large presence in markets far from their headquarters. some countries have used this to attract big business with incentive tax rates and perks. a good number of member states cannot and do not want to compete in this tax game because it would require cuts in public spending, so now we have this initiative which aims to cement the status quo. we must not forget that european nations led the world in research and innovation at a time when they were most competitive with each other. this internal competition can only be good for europe because it will motivate all members to constantly work to increase competitiveness and efficiency and force them to eliminate unnecessary costs by which politicians often buy the favour of voters.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteurs, mr lamassoure and mr tangue, and i consider that two important steps in the fight against tax evasion and profit shifting have been taken through the proposals for these two directives. the first step to establish a common corporate tax base is therefore important because it stops the tax practices of giving hidden subsidies and attracting companies in such a way as to allow them to reduce the tax base to the maximum, and also, thanks to this proposal, it reduces administrative costs and significantly simplifies procedures for companies throughout the single market. the second step common consolidated corporate tax base is important because it prevents the shifting of profits of companies to countries with lower taxes and introduces the practice of, of course, consolidating the results and distributing according to the revenue generated, assets, number of employees, but also data in the case of digital business.
on behalf of the alde club. madam commissioner, i must say that i understand your rhetoric this morning when we were talking about steel and aluminium and now your rhetoric when we are talking about spanish olives, but i want to warn you: the war has begun! i'm all for moderate rhetoric, but i expect firm decisions. we must realize that war is coming and more and more every day. there is no doubt that everything you do is well-intentioned, but we must be prepared for counter-measures and this in a way that perhaps this current us administration only wants one thing: it wants to double the european union. spanish olives will get their own customs duties, but croatian olives will not, greek olives will not, and we have a common agricultural policy. and we must continue with this common agricultural policy. and i say that we have to play the highest quality in our common agricultural policy and that way we will be the most competitive in the world market, but that is a question for us. in this case it's very clear that the rules of the world trade organization . . . so i think trump will be making policy, he'll just be waving. they'll say, "what a world trade organization this is!" we see what he does when he talks about doing business in the pacific, when he talks about doing business with other countries, and i think we're unprepared here. there is no doubt that if someone says "america first", i invite you to say the same thing: "europe first". i'm totally open to a world economy, i'm totally open to a completely liberal economy, but somebody says, "america first!" please say from the commission: europe first!
mr president, the europass tools and services will ensure easier exchange of information and better understanding of skills and qualifications. if we want citizens to make better use of their career opportunities, it is of great importance to establish quality networks for the exchange of information. the possibility of going to the most developed countries in europe to study or work is a great opportunity for many citizens of the less developed member states and countries could prosper from this because they could one day return to highly educated people who have learned from the best. it all looks so good in theory. in practice, people find it difficult to return because their home countries do not offer them the opportunities they expect and can get in developed member states. it is their right to choose where they want to live and work and we must defend that right, but as responsible legislators we must also take into account the interests of the less developed member states whose populations are rapidly declining, especially the young and educated, and whose economic and demographic survival is in danger.
i support the outcome of the lulucf regulation negotiations and thank my colleague mr linz for having considered my arguments and for allowing an exemption for croatia. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the forestry sector is able to comply with the requirements of the forestry legislation. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and fair competition. the commission has also taken the view that the use of forest land in croatia is not a sufficient justification for the use of forest land in croatia. i also thank the european union, which has so far directed over 100 million euros to mine clearance in croatia and 46 million euros to bosnia and herzegovina. i would point out that we still need help because in croatia there are still 38 000 hectares of forest under mines and in bosnia and herzegovina 120 000 hectares.
on behalf of the verts/ale club. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, ms bonafè, who has guided our team through the negotiations with great authority and has shown great skill in negotiating with the council and the commission. a big thank you to our advisors and assistants who did a lot of the technical work in preparing this circular economy package. what i would also like to stress is that, despite the fact that the council was not ambitious in some areas, particularly in terms of objectives, the maltese, estonian and bulgarian presidencies provided an opportunity for dialogue and for compromise. what i consider our great success, especially my law club, is that we've managed to incorporate preventive measures into this package, namely the removal of hazardous substances and the decontamination of waste in recycling. and we've actually opened a whole new door to innovation, to exploration, to the bioeconomy, to new materials. this is what actually makes the core of the future circular economy when we look at the use of resources themselves, especially in open waste collection. what i want to emphasize in the end is that implementation is very important. you, vice-president of the commission, made a statement that i often quote: 'trash is cash'. european structural funds, strategic investments, these are all things that actually give the chance to the member states to recognize this and to turn our economy into the circular economy of the future.
written. after more than two years of painstaking negotiations on the legislative package proposal, and almost four years since the first proposal for the transition of the european economy to a circular economy was presented, the negotiations of the european parliament, the council and the commission have reached agreement on the final proposal for a package of new european laws supporting the implementation of the eu action plan for a circular economy. the laws include amendments to the waste framework directive, the waste vehicles directive, the waste batteries and accumulators and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive and the waste landfill directive. the package provides guidance to member states on achieving the right balance of waste-to-energy capacity and highlights the role of the waste hierarchy, where waste management options are ranked according to sustainability, with waste prevention and recycling as the top priority. the package also contributes to optimising member states' contributions to the energy union and to exploiting the possibilities for cross-border partnerships where appropriate and consistent with environmental objectives. croatia has been working to solve its waste management problems for many years. although we were one of the first countries to recognize the potential of the circular economy, we have been more or less inefficient and unsuccessful in managing waste. the new legislative package, as well as the experience of other successful member states, should be a new and strong incentive for us to really preserve croatia as beautiful and our own.
madam president, commissioner, according to the available data, women in the media are still not equally represented, exposed, paid, or consulted for their expert opinion compared to their male colleagues. research shows that in the european union only 4% of news coverage shows men and women in equal positions. the depiction of women and girls occupies only 24% of media space, while men and boys are depicted in 76% of media depictions. for these reasons, the report of this kind carries particular weight. however, at the same time, i would point out that a report such as this must be approached in a conscientious manner and without imposing socially-driven ideologies on the member states, which is what some amendments seek to do, and i call for those amendments to be rejected. they downplay the importance of the subject and draw attention to something that is not within the competence of the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights.
madam chairman, women and men must have equal opportunities. any discrimination in the market must disappear and i will always wholeheartedly support all measures and initiatives that lead in that direction. but this report goes in the opposite direction, and calls not for equal opportunity, but for equal outcomes that should no longer be the domain of free choice of the individual, but should be decided by social engineers. unfortunately, this assault on individual liberty is portrayed as emancipating women, when in fact it is framing them. feminists used to say that a woman is free to do with her body what she wants. today they want to take away the right to choose from those women who, in their opinion, are objectified, even if it directly harms their interests and goes against their free will. this report is on that very track and that's why i can't support it. we need to create a safe economic environment for women, but they have to make their own career decisions, without the input of social engineers.
the problem of protein shortages in the european union has been known and present for many years. it is important for the future of european agriculture to adopt a european strategy to promote protein crops because unfortunately we are now dependent on imports. i am pleased to say that many of the proposals i put forward with the representatives of the european people's party have found their way into this report. i consider crop diversification on agricultural land to be necessary and welcome the recommendation to reintroduce plant-based proteins such as soybeans, beans, peas and crops such as dill and many other legumes to rotational crops and fodder systems. the development of regional protein production and processing chains by associating farmers and by enhancing cooperation between rotational crop producers and growers needs to be supported within the framework of the common agricultural policy, as is the introduction of support for protein crops. i welcome the interest of european consumers in non-gmo products and the encouragement of initiatives such as the soya danube that promote the safety and high quality of non-gmo soy products.
mr. chairman, i would like to thank my colleague, marc joulaud, for his excellent report and his excellent work. what this report clearly shows is that cohesion policy is delivering results in practice, that it is indeed leading to a reduction in the different levels of development between the regions of the european union, and that this is an important message for the adoption of the future budgetary framework in which we continue to want a strong and highly representative cohesion policy. what we can also learn from this report is that for the success of implementation it is very important to simplify procedures, to have well prepared projects and to adopt the implementing regulation in time. i therefore welcome the efforts of the european commission and commissioner creţu to start discussing the implementing regulation as early as june this year. it is important for member states to prepare in time for the next perspective and to really have concrete implementation in practice as soon as possible after 2020.
mr president, crossborder pollution is a major problem that the european institutions must be able to influence. it is unacceptable that the inhabitants of slavonski brod have suffered for ten years the consequences of air pollution from the refinery in the neighboring state of bosanski brod. at eu level, we have developed financial instruments whose use depends on the willingness of states and entrepreneurs to submit projects. however, when it comes to cross-border threats to human health, the decision should not be made by the state and the businessman alone. the european union institutions must play a greater role in influencing the way in which the transboundary source of pollution is tackled. the european commission must be able to direct the available eu funds in bosnia and herzegovina towards the modernization of the bosna-vodnja refinery. the people of slavonski brod have a right to clean air and we have a duty through the eu project to ensure the highest standards of ecological production in bosanski brod, with a guarantee that the pollution will stop, and i call on the european commission to get involved in solving this issue.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively. the fact that they receive large amounts of government funding calls into question their non-governmental character and independence in action. this model of funding civil society is the subject of growing criticism - sometimes unjustified, but very often justified. in some countries, governments do make it difficult for civil society to work, and that's a conviction. but in much of europe, organisations that promote what the eu institutions passionately support have simply lost the support and trust of the public. although they continue to receive generous budgetary support, their ideas and projects do not reach the people. this instrument will only deepen that gap. providing additional funding to associations from taxpayers' pockets through an instrument beyond the control of citizens will reinforce mistrust and resistance both towards civil society and towards the european union. the end result will be the exact opposite of what you want to achieve.
mr vice-president of the parliament, mr commissioner, in the context of the new york declaration as the first intergovernmental agreement on refugees and migration, the full dimension of international migration is covered for the first time. the united nations global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration and refugees, as a follow-up to the new york declaration, helps to improve governance and address the challenges associated with global migration. the responsibility to protect the lives, freedoms and human rights of refugees in the context of global commitments, i stress this because this is not just a european problem but a global commitment, is one of the key elements of this european parliament resolution and the member states of the european union, as well as other global actors, should be more actively engaged in fulfilling them. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the global compact for refugees and its implementation in the context of the global compact for refugees and its implementation in the context of the global compact for refugees and its implementation in the context of the global compact for refugees and its implementation in the context of the global compact for refugees and refugees. in conclusion, what i consider important is to strengthen the resilience of societies and economies in crisis-affected countries, as well as to adopt measures to combat poverty and to strengthen the inclusiveness of economic growth and development as one of the key solutions to global migration, as also stated in the text of the resolution that i co-authored.
mr. chairman, the fact is that the situation in syria is one of the major failures of the international community. seven years of suffering for the syrian people, 73 times chemical weapons used, 300,000 dead - all of this speaks in favor of this united response by the united kingdom, france and america. so, the use of chemical weapons in the suburbs of damascus is unacceptable this time and it's clear that the war is not over. so it should not be lost sight of the fact that russia has vetoed 11 times in the security council and that the only solution remains a political solution. so, obviously, a military solution cannot be sought in syria, and i agree that all political capital should be used in that direction. however, mrs mogherini asked one question that she did not answer, and she said: "who must give in?" so, from the brussels conference next week, but also from the continuation of the negotiations in geneva, we expect them to speed up and give concrete and tangible solutions. otherwise, the syrian people will continue to suffer, and we will have no solution.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, eight years of conflict and no solution in sight. syria is a political arena of world powers with conflicting interests, while its governments instead of protecting their citizens do the opposite. they are using the most brutal means, which obviously involve chemical weapons. these methods are absolutely unacceptable to any conviction. 13 million people need help, 6 million are internally displaced, 3 million are in areas where it is difficult or impossible to get access even to medical aid, and 5.5 million people have fled to neighboring countries. the european union has a strategy for syria. it should be the basis of a common european approach. anything else will only further distance us from a peaceful solution. i support the conference to be held next week under the auspices of the united nations and the european union. the subject will be the current situation, but also the future of syria which can only be achieved through political dialogue and agreement within the framework of the united nations.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i think we can all agree that the greatest evil that happens in the world is the killing of innocent people. immediately followed by a lack of peaceful action by those in a position to help. i emphasize peaceful action, as opposed to actions that will further deepen the conflict. the factor that makes it difficult to make decisions when it comes to syria is the lack of access to the facts. as we read of alleged chemical weapons attacks, we cannot help but ask: why is it so difficult to get to the facts? why are we prone to react to various announcements and even to take military action before the objective factual situation is established? extremist forces were based in eastern ghouta, bombing civilian positions in damascus, including christian churches. why didn't the west react at the time so that the conflict wouldn't escalate? why didn't the west react 8 years ago so that there wouldn't have been a genocide of christians in syria and millions of syrians left homeless? syria needs peace, not war.
mr. chairman, first of all, it should be kept in mind and reiterated that north korea is one of the most authoritarian and brutal regimes in the world. and i had the opportunity and the honor, as did some of my colleagues who spoke earlier, to be on a mission to south korea two weeks ago and to witness firsthand the willingness of both north and south korea to continue a high-level dialogue. i also welcome the visit of the north korean leader to china, and we also look forward to the meeting between trump and the north korean leader. it's one of the precedents in world politics, but here, we need to see what's going to be discussed. in any case, without denuclearization, without, therefore, the disarmament of the peninsula there is no talk of lifting sanctions. so sanctions should be seen as measures that are not an end in themselves, but at the same time they should be kept until human rights are improved, until living standards are improved in north korea. and that is what the european union must always keep in mind. in any case, i support the continuation of the talks, i support a possible peaceful solution, i support that after 64 years of ceasefire, it develops into a lasting peace. and that's what we all need to support here, and i hope that's where we're headed. however, we must always be on guard.
i would like to start by congratulating my colleague, ms marietje schaake, on a well-prepared report which aims to contribute to creating a clear vision of the structure and priorities under the european union's external financing instruments for the next multiannual financial period. the european union's external financing instruments for the period after 2020 need to be more efficient, flexible and transparent in order to strengthen european values and the european union's interests in the world, and to do so we need to review the current situation within the current multiannual financial framework. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. we need to strengthen the ownership of recipient countries in the setting of reform priorities in order to encourage them to implement the necessary reforms as soon as possible. the requirements for the implementation of key economic reforms as well as for democratic political institutional consolidation in the partner countries must be accompanied by appropriate financial resources in the next financial period. i consider this to be particularly important for the ipa ii pre-accession assistance instrument, especially in the context of today's encouraging enlargement report on the western balkans and the recently published european union enlargement strategy, which supports candidate and potential candidate countries in implementing reforms to achieve stability and security in the european union's immediate neighbourhood.
i would like to welcome commissioner mimica and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. this report shows that we are achieving results through changes in the public sector, education, respect for human rights, the rule of law, an effective and independent judiciary, the fight against corruption, all of which are prerequisites for societies that are built on trust and in which peace and stability and economic growth and development can be ensured. this is precisely what we want to achieve through our influence and action outside the european union. the system of eu instruments for external action must be simplified, as all of you have stressed, and linked more clearly to the expected objectives and better monitoring of the achievement of results. i therefore fully agree with the statement by commissioner mimica that we need to align instruments with policies, our mission and objectives, and not vice versa. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
mr president, the european union-western balkans summit to be held in sofia in mid-may should provide a lot of answers to questions about the path of the non-integrated countries of south-east europe towards membership of the union. the most important thing is that the objectives set are realistic and that the geopolitical arguments this time are secondary to clear negotiating criteria. the fact is that most candidate and potential candidate countries are still nowhere near meeting the criteria and that, irrespective of their mood towards further enlargement within the union, their path to membership will be long and demanding. the union has enough problems of its own to import others. the relationship with neighbours should be constructive and encouraging because we want them to progress, but without radical changes in those countries and a successful resolution of outstanding issues with the union's members, there must be no new enlargement.
mr. chairman, illegal data collection and the invasion of internet users' privacy are important challenges of modern times that we must address through better legislation, raising citizens' awareness and drastically punishing all actors involved in this unacceptable practice. more than 80% of european households have access to the internet and 71% of citizens use it regularly. often unknowingly, they expose themselves to numerous predators and security threats. as a responsible legislator, we must do everything we can to reduce that risk. but if we really want to be responsible, let us first stop deceiving ourselves and others. brexit and trump's victory didn't happen because of facebook and cambridge analytica, and it didn't happen because of russian hackers. they happened because politics neglected the citizens and their interests and desires. i hope that protecting citizens from electoral manipulation doesn't mean censoring disgraceful political actors and making the election game harder. that would threaten our democracy far more than the unfair practices we want to stop.
preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing must be one of our priorities, mr president, in order to further protect citizens from harm by making it more difficult, or even better, by making it impossible, to finance terrorist activities. europe is home to several globally important financial centres where money from all over the world flows and therefore has an obligation to lead the way in cleaning up the financial system of dirty money. i am not sure that the establishment of mass registers containing the personal data of the majority of the union's population will achieve the desired results. i'm afraid this is a massive project that focuses on loyal citizens instead of those who are explicitly suspected of being involved in illegal activities. better cooperation between competent authorities and faster mechanisms for exchanging data are more important and easier to achieve than a centralised data collection system that can always be the target of organised attacks.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, mr commissioner, we may have all had greater ambition together than we achieved, but i think we have made a great result. i know that there were more ambitious ideas, we wanted to go ahead and take steps, but i think we made a decisive and excellent move when we finally put this report together in a series of trials, and i must say that this is the first time i have participated in such a trialogue and i was pleased that together with mr häusling and the other shadow rapporteurs and your colleagues, commissioner, we have produced a good document. i think that three principles should be emphasized: harmonization, standardization and simplification of procedures. it's good for the farmers, it's good for the consumers. of course today when we talk about the 27 billion euro market that organic products have, we're all aware of how big that is and we're all aware that that market is only going to grow, 125 percent has grown in the last ten years. so we have a really big responsibility to turn what will be the future of european agriculture into something that will be our common success. mr commissioner, i think that it is precisely organic production, and i will add something else, and geographical origin, that should be one of the pillars of the future common agricultural policy, because that is where i see the strongest possible competitiveness of european agriculture, precisely in organic production and in the production of products of protected origin. i see this as our chance in the world market and that is why i support this report and alde will vote for this report.
mr president, commissioner, organic farming can contribute to the preservation of rural areas and add value to them, thus contributing to sustainable development and the retention of young people in rural areas. although the area under organic farming is growing and the number of farmers opting for this type of production is increasing, we still cannot be satisfied with the progress. there are many barriers to producers and consumers that we need to remove if organic farming is to reach its full potential. i therefore welcome the agreement finally reached on this regulation, as i believe it will address the shortcomings in the control system and the trade regime and give consumers the guarantee that what they buy as an organic product does indeed comply with the certificate. i am pleased that the precautionary principle has been improved to avoid pollution, to allow better access to organic seeds and animals, to allow farmers to run mixed farms, to apply stricter controls and eu standards on the import of organic products, and to strengthen the position of european producers by abolishing equivalence rules.
madam chair, i would like to welcome the commissioner and thank the rapporteurs for their excellent report. to be successful and not pay or avoid paying the liabilities that competitors pay or negotiate prices and impose them on customers is not great wisdom, and such practices, of course, we all agree, destroy quality companies, destroy innovators and generally hinder the development of entrepreneurship. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the competition authority in order to ensure that it is able to carry out its tasks. what i want to draw attention to is the particular relationship between national authorities and the administration of the european commission, especially in cases where they have different views. i think it is very important to respect each other and it is important that the administration of the european commission does not insist at any cost and imposes its views at any cost but such differences of opinion should be resolved in partnership, and not just refer member states to court from above. i call for greater cooperation and partnership.
madam chair, protecting women from violence is not only our legal, but our moral obligation. the european protection order is an important mechanism in fulfilling that obligation because we live in an age of increased mobility. there are a number of measures that can improve enforcement. the report recommends simplifying procedures, reducing red tape, creating uniform forms, providing better information to officials and victims, and using new technologies. unfortunately, the report does not deal only with technical solutions, but it goes deep into the sphere of values, and we find statements such as those about deep-rooted misogyny and sexism in our societies, with which many citizens, experts and those of us here will not agree. it also recommends intervention in school curricula, which is completely outside the purview of this house. we all want to protect women from violence and that is why, in reports like this, which seek a broad consensus, ideology must be excluded.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the house for this very interesting and very constructive discussion. nobody denies that the bologna process has played a very crucial role in the last 20 years to build trust, both between the countries and between the higher education institutions, and this is really essential to promote cooperation and to promote learning mobility. for now, what is the most important for us and what will be our focus for the coming years? it must, and will, ensuring progress in implementing the bologna process. at the same time, we will continue to strengthen the capacity-building efforts for bologna countries outside the eu, and we are trying to work with those countries that have still not fulfilled all of the obligations at this point. let me refer shortly to belarus. according to the assessment of the dedicated working group, although some limited progress has been made, the country does not meet the agreed requirements. there is a consensus that belarus should join the new peer review process, which is foreseen for all 48 member countries, which aims to support the implementation of key bologna commitments. it is, however, clear that it will also need specific support within the bologna context to progress faster in this country. last, but not least, the commission sees the bologna process and the establishment of the european education area as complementary. we believe that the eu initiatives which we will take, within the context of the european education area, will provide a new, very much welcomed impetus to the bologna process. i will pass on all of your detailed questions and remarks to commissioner navracsics, but really thank you very much for this discussion.
written. education is one of the main pillars of our society! higher education has an important role to play in fostering personal development and skills acquisition, increasing employability and competitiveness, enhancing civic engagement, active citizenship and intercultural understanding, promoting shared values and meeting the challenges of today's rapidly changing world. the bologna process and the european higher education area encompass 48 countries, including many of the eu's important neighbours and partners. they promote mobility and strengthen the international dimension of higher education. participating countries should increase political engagement and strengthen mutual cooperation in the implementation of jointly agreed objectives across the european higher education area and, where appropriate, develop appropriate legislative frameworks to consolidate the development of the bologna process, to strengthen its credibility and to make the area an example of academic excellence in the world, as well as to increase mobility opportunities to engage the widest possible student population. the eu and the member states should develop a strategy to increase their education budget to ensure free public higher education for all, to encourage lifelong learning!
mr president, the marine equipment and shipbuilding industries have been among europe's most important strategic industries for decades, employing some 450 000 people in the member states of the european union. these sectors are important from both an economic and a social point of view, as they provide quality employment for large enterprises and smes and contribute to the regional industrial infrastructure. there are currently around 150 large shipyards in europe, many of which are active on the world market with a market share of around 6% in terms of tonnage. however, commissioner, the shipbuilding nations in europe are too weak to cope with the pressure of competition from asia, especially, of course, from china and south korea where there are specific national strategies for their shipbuilding with clear supporting objectives. in view of leadership 2020, does the european commission have a specific plan to create a comprehensive industrial strategy for the european maritime and shipbuilding sector to support the long-term competitiveness, economic stability and growth of this important sector? does the commission take concrete measures to preserve and promote the high-tech and high-value competitive advantage of european shipbuilding? does the commission have a clear policy and measures in place today to address the threats posed by unfair international competition and the absence of global trade rules? those are my questions. but of course, i want to thank you here first of all for accepting this initiative of mine to talk about these topics and i'm sorry that there are not some other colleagues from my country because for croatia it is particularly important. and that's why i want to look at croatian shipbuilding now. i am well aware of the importance of ensuring the survival of shipbuilding in croatia because we are not just talking about preserving jobs, but we are talking about preserving shipbuilding knowledge and skills. the pool oilfield, which i know best, of course, could become a veritable european silicon valley of shipbuilding genius and science. the prerequisite for this is a rapid and serious and long-term reaction of the national and european institutions. with uljanik, and 3rd may from rijeka and brodosplit and hbt from dalmatia, they are still companies with knowledge and a market, but they need european and national support. the main problem is primarily financial. and that is financing the shipbuilding and financing the buyer of that ship, as others do, and that is crucial for the survival of shipbuilding, not just in croatia. i therefore call on the european commission to devise and propose the creation of a specific instrument to enable the european bridge-building industry to be financed in a competitive manner. we often talk here, commissioner, about the need to re-industrialize europe. instead of first adopting effective measures to save those industries which have the synergistic, technological, scientific and economic power, which can carry the development of europe into the future. i therefore propose that the closure or liquidation of shipyards in the member states of the european union be stopped immediately. this of course means redefining the measures and criteria, which must be done jointly by the european commission and the governments of the member states concerned. we cannot stand by and watch one of europe's key industries disappear while our partners in other parts of the world pursue their open subsidy policies and help their shipbuilding industry. i understand the need for market and open access because i'm, after all, in a liberal family, but if the competition is non-market and illiberal and doing everything to save their industry, then i call for us to do the same. it is totally unacceptable to me to turn a blind eye to the constant loss of european producers' share of the world market. the shipbuilding industry is a symbol of the interconnectedness of european industry, because our ship, the european ship, is a common european product, in which a multitude of materials and products are incorporated, which are assembled in one country and come from a number of other countries. so let's create a new concept and strategy for the preservation of the shipyard.
written. the proposed multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2021-2027 takes into account the future of the eu at 27, the coverage of the €12-14 billion annual shortfall due to the uk's withdrawal, and the necessary increase in the expenditure side of the budget for other priority issues. although an improved proposal has been presented compared to the original projections, as a representative of the committee on agriculture and rural development i cannot be satisfied with the final proposal. agriculture as a strategic eu policy should not have been affected by the cuts. the eu's agricultural sector today provides some 22 million permanent jobs, and food processing services and related retail together provide some 44 million jobs. direct payments under the first pillar of the cap support the incomes of some seven million eu farms. however, the average income of farmers in the eu is lower than the average income in other economic sectors, making agriculture an unattractive occupation. it is necessary to ensure an adequate budget for the common agricultural policy, in particular in the context of the increasing demands placed on farmers in terms of environmental protection, climate objectives and animal welfare. if we take into account the benefits farmers bring to food production, the preservation of biodiversity, the survival of rural areas, the preservation of values and even the family, then it is clear that the cap budget must not be reduced.
madam president, i would like to agree with all that my colleagues have said and stressed that the eib's activities are very important for economic growth and development and for maintaining the desirable level of investment in the european union. however, they also stressed the very important role of the european investment bank in the balanced development of all parts of the european union and cohesion policy, and it was precisely what this report highlighted, namely that 70% of all lending activities were directed to six member states, and none of these six member states is among the eu-13 new member states, which are also the largest beneficiaries of cohesion policy. this is what the european investment bank must change. this is the 2016 report, now in 2018 we can see that more technical assistance activities for project preparation and for new investment instruments and financial instruments are targeted at less developed member states. i support this and want the eib to continue to work even harder in this way.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first and foremost of course i would like to congratulate mr novakov, the rapporteur, for this comprehensive and very balanced report. as you rightly underlined, there are many success stories brought by eu transport investments over the last decade. you mentioned the completion of the motorway linking sofia to the black sea, but this section of the orient/east-med corridor is indeed very strategic. coupled with ongoing works along the rhine-danube corridor, it has contributed to improving the connectivity between the western balkans/greece and central europe. i also have in mind the significant improvements, for instance, brought to the high-speed rail network in spain, the metro extension in warsaw, and the line recently inaugurated between munich and berlin. of course we need to continue to be ambitious about our transport policy, and this message was very strongly sent and widely conveyed during the ten-t days in ljubljana last week. i was there, commissioner bulc was there, also vice-president šefčovič, and also commissioner for the budget mr ottinger. i am please to confirm that the commission proposal of the new multiannual financial framework reflects our high ambitions in the transport field, also within the future cohesion policy. if we want to make our transport fit for the future, we must solve, as we said, once and for all the persisting bottlenecks and missing links, especially across borders. beyond infrastructure, transport must become cleaner and more efficient by promoting multimodality and by driving forwards the digitisation and decarbonisation of the sector. i hear your call for the promotion of alternative and innovative mobility, and i think that we can do it thanks to the cohesion policy. its long-term, cross-cutting and cross-border development strategies offer the right frame both for action and for reform. so ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that cohesion policy will remain a decisive catalyst for sustainable transport investments. of course, we need to take into account new ways of supporting such investments, and financial instruments can play an important role in this regard for certain bankable projects, but i agree with you: i think in most cases, grants remain the most effective. we will ensure better coordination between cohesion policy and the connecting european facility in the next financial framework, and of course i would like to thank the rapporteur for this high-quality project. i am looking forward to hearing your views, because it is a very important debate for me and for all of us.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for the proposals he has accepted. we agree, of course, that adequate transport connectivity is a prerequisite for realising the full potential of the single market and that all parts of the union deserve to be adequately connected. regardless of insularity, if the islands are involved, or inaccessible terrain, if the mountainous and sparsely populated areas are involved. the commission notes that the union industry has not been able to fully benefit from the measures in force since the imposition of the measures. so the benefits of developing an adequate transport network are manifold. but when we talk about the future of transport infrastructure and optimal connectivity, we also have to think about what kind of infrastructure we're building. the purpose of today's debate is to promote sustainable transport and eliminate bottlenecks. it is pleased that the report contains proposals that further advance the sustainability of transport solutions, smart mobility, multimodal and clean transport and urban mobility, as well as, of course, road safety. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: in the existing financial framework of 7 000 km of railways planned for renewal, a decision has been taken for only 980 km and out of the planned 628 km of new railways, the procedure has been confirmed for only 16 km. cohesion policy should therefore continue to have a thematic focus, while allowing for a degree of flexibility to take into account the specific needs of each region. the same circumstances do not apply in highly urban or rural areas, the so-called lagging regions, as well as regions with permanent natural or geographical constraints. only in this way can we achieve the fundamental objective of improving and harmonising the functioning of the european single market by facilitating the free movement of people, goods and services throughout the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on transport and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on transport and its implementation.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, quality transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for stable economic growth and development. in addition to facilitating the transport of goods and thus making products and services more accessible and affordable, it promotes labour mobility and thus employment. investments in transport infrastructure are one of the best ways to achieve cohesion objectives. in this context, i must welcome the removal of the last obstacles to the construction of the pelješac bridge in croatia. although we have witnessed various attempts at blackmail by certain structures in neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina, the political and financial support that the european union has given to this project has shown that the union knows its priorities and will not give in to obstruction by geopolitical interests of others. the same approach should be taken with regard to other infrastructure projects which consolidate the union at its external borders. our priority must always be the security of our borders and a stable and enabling environment for the development of the member states of the union.
member of the commission. madam president, in the light of your remarks, i believe we share the same view. firstly, that in our policy, in cohesion policy, transport must remain the main driver for sustainable and sustainable investment in transport. some of you have also given concrete examples showing us, as i said, that we have achieved a great deal over the years with the help of european funds to improve the european transport network. of course, i understand that some of you would like more funding for the transport sector. today, in relative terms, 20% of cohesion policy funding goes to transport and mobility. in my experience, cohesion policy has been very important, especially in setting these ex ante conditionalities, which have helped member states or sometimes obliged them to draw up a long-term strategy and to ensure a balance between territorial development and transport development. to be honest, i think what is crucial in the coming years is that we have, first of all, a reserve of mature, quality projects, especially in the less developed regions of the member states. because, frankly, for many member states we have appropriations waiting to be used up here in brussels and we do not have complete projects submitted, i am talking about feasibility studies, cost-benefit analyses, environmental agreements. so from my point of view, i think that very often administrative capacity is much more important than the allocations, than the money, that is there. we will continue to do our work in each member state and with the same dedication we will provide technical assistance and consultancy services. as regards the question raised in particular, concerning the outermost regions, madeira and the azores, you are well aware that we in the commission have already adopted a communication granting a specific status to these outermost regions, but the allocations are in the hands of the national authorities. as for the greek islands, you also know very well that i visited them. it's a matter we've discussed many times with governments. i think i have said several times that what you have asked for is a decision that again belongs to the greek government, to introduce this issue in the operational programmes for the period after 2020.
written. only a more integrated approach to investment in transport infrastructure and stronger cross-border cooperation can remove bottlenecks. the importance of eu cohesion policy is recognised particularly at regional and local level, while investment in eu transport infrastructure is one of the policies that deliver the greatest eu added value. i strongly support the removal of the transport infrastructure shortcomings associated with the western balkans, in particular in terms of integration processes following the commission communication on the european perspective of the western balkans, and in this context i stress the importance of european territorial cooperation and macro-regional strategies for integrated transport projects. the connecting europe facility (cef), the cf and the erdf should continue to be the main sources of eu investment in transport infrastructure in the next programming period. in this context, smart transport and digitalisation allow for more efficient use of existing infrastructures and redirection of traffic to periods of reduced congestion
madam president, victims of violence must feel safe in every corner of the union after the trauma they have suffered and all the rights to protection they enjoy in their home country must be guaranteed in the other member states. of course, our focus should always be on preventing violence, but it's equally important to help victims get through a difficult period without additional trauma in the form of fear of repeated violence or even fear for their own lives. in this respect, i fully support the regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters and the directive on the european protection order. reducing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures in ensuring the protection of victims when travelling to other member states are important steps in the right direction. what has long been possible for all people in the european union will be guaranteed in particular to victims of violence by the new legislative framework. they will be able to move safely across the continent and to seek new opportunities for education, work or leisure without fear.
mr president, i would like to thank first of all mrs mcguinness for her dedicated work and concern for farmers, which i personally share, because we should all be concerned about the eurostat data from 2015, which indicates that there were more than 500 fatal accidents in the agricultural sector. so farming means that we are still doing dangerous work and that the measures taken at eu level to improve safety at work are still not enough and that we need to find additional funding through national and european programmes. long hours, sleeplessness, emotional exhaustion, basic misfortunes, unfair trade practices, high interest rates on loans - all of these have a natural impact on farmers. if we know that in france, about 300 farmers are killed every year because of a bad situation, then i have to congratulate the croatian farmers because in much worse conditions they are fighting and trying to actually make a step forward; they are my real heroes.
mr president, mr prime minister, i was listening very carefully to your introductory speech and i realised during your speech that you are real true european as you said. since this is a debate on the future of europe, you also said that you are against a two-speed europe. you mentioned schengen, you mentioned the eurozone, but you haven't said anything about further integration of the european union. you haven't mentioned anything about the western balkans or southeast europe. so i would like to hear from you, what is your opinion, what is your attitude – i mean you as prime minister and a belgian – on widening the european union? do you have any standpoint on this issue?
mr president, the third mobility package offers a series of measures that will make european road transport safer, cleaner and more enjoyable. the joint efforts in designing and implementing these measures are of the utmost importance as the movement of people and goods in europe is easier today than ever before and has significant cross-border effects. in this context, the judgment of the german federal administrative court in leipzig in february this year, which allowed german cities to ban the operation of older diesel engines, should also be considered. the ban would apply to all diesel vehicles up to the euro6 environmental standard. the commission considers that the measures in question are appropriate to address the specific needs of the union industry and the union industry as a whole. the commission has already taken action to ensure that member states do not become a dumping ground for vehicles which do not meet environmental standards.
mr president, fishing is an important economic activity for coastal and island communities. if we want to preserve them, we need to ensure that the greatest share of the value created in the fisheries sector remains with the fishermen and the local community. optimising the fisheries value chain is an important process that can ensure sustainability and thus save many coastal communities from depopulation and extinction. it is important to reduce the administrative burden and to facilitate the association of producers' organisations and the placing of fish on the market, as well as public institutions in local areas. in croatia, this will be made much more difficult if the commission insists on drastic quotas for small blue fish in the adriatic. the commission notes that the measures in question are not intended to compensate for the loss of the fishery resources of the union. i therefore call on the commission to abandon the quota system and work with parliament and the national authorities to find a better, more sustainable solution.
the common agricultural policy is the european union's longest-running and most successful policy. i want to keep it that way. we must therefore make it simpler and more flexible, but not in a way that reduces bureaucracy from the european to the national level, but in a way that gives farmers real relief and benefits. the agricultural budget must not be reduced and support must be directed to small and medium-sized farms, which are the real agents of food production and rural conservation. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's rural development policy, including on the implementation of the rural development strategy, and on the implementation of the rural development strategy. so far, no member state has introduced a thematic sub-programme for rural women and i call on them to do so because our aim is to improve the general position of women in rural areas and to have their work recognised and paid for.
mr president, commissioner, young people across europe are leaving the countryside, putting food production and the survival of rural areas at risk. rural areas need to be made desirable places to live and agriculture an attractive occupation if we really want to see the generational renewal that is the foundation of the future of european agriculture. the commission should also be able to provide support to the member states in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the union programme 'agriculture and rural development' and in the programme 'regional development'. all young farmers should have the same starting position irrespective of the member state from which they come and should therefore be able to access financial instruments and loans under the same conditions and interest rates. the introduction of appropriate programmes to encourage earlier transfers of ownership of agricultural holdings can help young people to enter the labour market earlier and older people to have a dignified old age.
the budgetary gap created by the uk's departure puts the union in a position where it must evaluate its policies, reallocate resources and set the right priorities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. the future of this community is not bright unless we narrow the gap between the most advanced members and those who are lagging behind. unfortunately, the new multiannual financial framework fails in this very area, because it deprives cohesion policy of the funds that are essential for equitable development. projects financed by the cohesion funds represent real added value, something tangible and real that citizens associate with the european union. the centralisation and fragmentation of cohesion policy would therefore undoubtedly have a negative impact on the union's reputation with citizens, which the commission must take into account.
madam president, we can all agree that with the uk leaving the eu, the budget must be smaller and cuts are necessary. the problem, however, is that in this draft budget we are, on the one hand, reviewing certain policies and, on the other, significantly strengthening others. we cannot completely destroy the cohesion fund, and especially not the rural development fund, in the context of complete rural decline. the reductions of 45% and 25% are totally unacceptable and we are destroying the objectives and the positive effects of these funds. on the other hand, there are more and more programs that are competing for all countries, both the most developed and the least developed, and of course, most of the funds go to the most developed because they have better and more competitive projects. what is our real purpose? is our goal to increase differences and instead of strengthening commonality and unity, to strengthen divisions and differences? it can't be the budget messages. i know it was hard to put together in these conditions, but the messages have to be different.
madam chairman, mr. commissioner, the south of israel woke up this morning to the sound and smoke of the largest rocket attack since 2014, with one of the rockets falling right next to a kindergarten moments before it opened. hamas, which has ruled the gaza strip for over a decade, has made the lives of the residents of southern israel dangerous and insecure by continuously placing them in the middle of the war zone with its continuous attacks on israel from day to day. hamas is a terrorist organization that threatens civilians on both sides of the border with people living in fear every day. security is thus becoming a growing challenge in the middle east. israel is the only stable democracy in the region, celebrating 70 years of independence this year. jerusalem is not only the capital of israel, but it is a holy place for the followers of three major religions. its status has been the subject of debate throughout history. what's important is that the safety of the city and the freedom to practice all religions are never in question and should remain so.
madam president, libya and its geostrategic position is crucial to the stability of all of north africa and the mediterranean. it's not just its borders to the mediterranean that are a problem, but also its borders to the countries with broken institutions that are the source of the migration waves. in this regard, with a view to addressing the crisis, we call for a stronger engagement of the european union with a more effective mobilisation of external funding to help rebuild institutions, infrastructure and civil society and address the key causes of migration coming through these countries to europe. europe must provide its full support to the implementation of the un plan of action for libya with a view to achieving national reconciliation. the priority is to establish a functioning government with police and military to protect its borders. europe is not only protected by the schengen borders, but also by the libyan borders. we need to strengthen the fight against smuggling groups and slave traders as a key solution to reduce the migratory pressures on europe. addressing the root causes of irregular migration and future instability in europe starts with a stable libya, as well as a stable balkans, through which, as we see these days, a new migration route to europe is opening up. we are the largest contributor of development aid, both in the world and in libya and syria. we need to be more ambitious protagonists in finding solutions for the stability of these countries, from which instability is exported to europe. it is time to articulate more clearly and take a stand on this issue on the international stage so that our citizens are also clearer about what is being done on their behalf.
mr. chairman, the question is how to increase internal security while protecting our external borders. as you know, in the area of free movement, external borders become shared, and so we share more than 50,000 kilometers of common borders, which means that a security problem in one country or at its external border can affect everyone. but there is a legal acquis based on mutual trust from which an area of freedom, security and justice should develop. it is a pity that member states increasingly erect walls at their external and internal borders as a deterrent to entry into the european union. imagine the fact that european countries have built over 800 miles [1,200 km] of walls and borders, at a cost of some 500 million euros. and all of this is against the spirit of schengen. so i hope that things will change, that bulgaria and romania, which you all mentioned here, will very soon join schengen, and i thank you mr avramopoulos, who also mentioned croatia, because croatia is on the best path, it has spent about 117 million euros to establish the technical conditions from the envelope. we hope to be ready in 2019. we know that croatia joined the european union in 2013 on its own, so i hope that it will also join the schengen area on its own. i just want to say one more thing: the schengen information system in croatia has shown that it is justified to apply it. in seven months, 168 million visits were recorded with 8,000 identified cars or people who were interesting from a safety point of view. i therefore firmly believe that the schengen area is part of the solution, not the problem. if it ceases to exist, and i hope it does not, then the same will happen to the europe of citizens in which we live today.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for the good report and for the acceptance of all the amendments i have tabled, in particular the one where the european parliament confirms its support for croatia's accession to schengen as soon as it meets the necessary criteria. yet we must not ignore the external and internal challenges to schengen as a single system of free movement of people and goods between as many as 26 countries. the lack of political will and a better legal framework to jointly address security threats and the migration crisis has led to the reintroduction of border controls among some schengen area members. i come from a member state that almost meets the criteria for schengen, successfully controls its external border, but is still barbed wire from the rest of the european union. schengen, as the great achievement of european integration, must not be a collateral victim of the deficits of our security policies. the solutions are not to raise fences and close borders between member states, nor are they political blockades. we can only upgrade schengen by acting together and by respecting the members who, by meeting all the criteria, deserve to be part of it.
mr president, the schengen area is rightly considered one of the greatest achievements of the european union, since it allows freedom of movement within its single territory. the republic of croatia, as the youngest member of the european family, is also striving to become part of this unique area without internal border controls. i thank my colleague rapporteur coelho for his strong support for croatia's accession to the schengen area. as the croatian representative, i believe that the technical conditions that must be met will be met by the end of this year and that croatia, which will soon celebrate the fifth anniversary of its accession to the union, will also join the schengen area for the mandate of this commission. this is not only important for the republic of croatia, but it is important for the security of the entire region and the european union as a whole. as the croatian border is for the most part an external border of the union, accession to schengen will also strengthen the control of external borders, which is particularly important in these times when we are faced with security threats on the one hand and migration on the other.
mr. chairman, mr. prime minister bettel, thank you for your contribution to this important debate on the future of europe. i'm glad you're strongly advocating for the inclusion of citizens in this dialogue. i believe that this ambition that you share with french president macron is genuine and that citizens will increasingly be asking themselves about the direction of the european union. unfortunately, that is not the case, as the reactions to the italian elections, which focused on european issues, show. the democratic will of the italian people is once again being suspended, and some high-ranking european officials are openly supporting this. such irresponsible behaviour creates further mistrust of citizens in the state and european institutions, which will eventually lead to the collapse of the whole system. this system of our parliamentary democracy, ladies and gentlemen, without the citizens and their trust cannot exist, however much some may have wished it to. let us always keep that in mind!
mr president, although we appeal to european values, we do not all seem to share them in the same way. there are significant differences between the new and old member states, both in law and in standard. croatia, romania and bulgaria are still waiting to enter schengen and our citizens have not been granted the right to free movement. we have products of inferior quality coming into our market, and it might seem that we are being treated as second-class citizens. it's dangerous and humiliating because what's not good for you is not good for us. the big challenge for all of europe is the migration and security situation, but nobody is doing anything to stop the radicalization that is happening in the heart of europe. our european values are seriously called into question, and we are most responsible for this ourselves because by passing laws against life, against the family, against our christian roots we do not contribute to our own progress but quite the opposite.
mr president, citizenship is based on a common identity and values that every citizen is obliged to respect and protect. i'm not a big fan of the citizenship trade and the so-called golden visas, but i respect the right of member states as sovereign states to grant them to whomever they want. since golden visas and citizenship are often granted to various foreign officials and investors as a way to avoid criminal prosecution in the home country, and often pose a security threat by facilitating the sponsorship of terrorism, control must exist. the right of a member state to grant citizenship or a golden visa shall not prejudice the rule of law and the interests of other member states. i therefore believe that such citizenship and visas, with the protection of personal data, must be communicated to all other member states and partner countries with which we have a visa-free regime.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the deve committee. mr president, commissioner stylianides, i would like to start by congratulating my colleague elisabetta gardini on an excellent report which aims to strengthen national civil protection capacities in the member states, complemented by existing instruments at eu level. last year's fires in southern europe, with their high number of victims and material damage, revealed the weaknesses in existing mechanisms for dealing with large-scale disasters. in this context, i welcome the adoption of provisions allowing the commission to retain its powers, to allocate the capacity of resceu, and to keep operational control in crisis areas under the control of the member states. furthermore, what i consider to be of the utmost importance is to allow a co-financing rate of no more than 55% of the eligible transport costs for the member states of the european union that are not able to participate in the joint civil protection capacities, which is of utmost importance for the republic of croatia. as rapporteur, on behalf of the committee on development, i also welcome the adoption of a provision that will allow for the increase of training capacity and enhanced exchanges of knowledge and experience in the field of civil protection, with international organisations and third countries, in order to contribute to disaster risk reduction in the context of the sendai framework. this enhanced union civil protection mechanism will be at the service of european citizens wherever they are at the moments when europe is most called upon to show solidarity in action, without unnecessary red tape and delays when time is of the essence.
mr president, the commission's decision to proceed with a partial amendment of the regulation is the only one acceptable to the member states and to the citizens of the european union, as the existing scope of the regulation in family law has been shown to address these sensitive issues satisfactorily. the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, may adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters. i call on the commission not to broaden the scope of the regulation, as this would create a double regulation and widen the gap between the countries that regulate and those that do not know the institution of registered partnerships, especially in the field of child adoption. the european union needs the harmonisation of the legal system, not further division, duplication of legal provisions or political pressure on each other.
madam president, the freedoms on which the union is founded come at a price. the facilitated movement of companies, capital and workers across europe leaves serious social consequences in those local communities and countries that lose out, while others prosper as a result. the process is not irreversible, so countries can reverse negative trends by implementing reforms and creating a positive investment climate. unfortunately, politics often avoids reforms. closing jobs to politicians has a negative effect and they would like to force businessmen to do business on their terms without any negotiation. thankfully, that's not possible. union membership makes such self-interest considerably more difficult and forces national politicians to work to attract workers and capital. some want to prevent this competition by introducing common tax rates and additional regulations, and i believe that would destroy europe as we know it and leave the less developed member states permanently behind.
the reporter. madam president, mr hahn, ladies and gentlemen, today i have the honour to present to you the implementation report on the implementation of this action plan for gender equality 2016 2020. i would like to start by thanking my co-rapporteur, ms linda mcavan, for her valuable work and support during the preparation of this report, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs. ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the principle of equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the european union, enshrined in the treaties on the union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and we work every day in parliament to empower women and achieve equality between women and men. this action plan for gender equality was drawn up on the basis of a parliament recommendation focusing on changing the institutional culture of the european union at the level of the seat and delegations in order to achieve a systemic change in the way the european union approaches gender issues and focusing on transforming the lives of women and girls through four key areas. the first year of the action plan has seen a number of positive trends. i welcome the choice of four thematic pillars, in particular ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of girls and women, promoting economic and social rights, empowering women and girls, enhancing their voice and participation, and transforming the institutional culture of the european external action service. this report highlights that greater participation of both the public and private sectors is key to advancing women's rights and economic empowerment in economic sectors as well as the need for women's inclusion and presence in new economic sectors that are important for sustainable development. we also stressed the importance of improving women's participation in education, economic activities, employment during the political dialogue. given the early implementation stage of the plan, i support the recommendations aimed at further improving it, but note that it is too early to make a full impact assessment or to criticise the commission. furthermore, i am convinced that the european parliament's report should be strictly focused on the practical aspects of its implementation. at committee level, as co-rapporteur, i decided to table a minority report or opinion precisely because i could not support in my own report amendments of an ideological nature which go far beyond the scope and purpose of this report, as well as unrealistic demands with regard to the european union's development cooperation with third countries or excessive budgetary demands. as rapporteur for the european people's party and as a strong advocate of the rights of women and girls, i felt a responsibility to table an alternative resolution by which we welcome once again the positive trends of the action plan in its first year of implementation, provide support and make recommendations to the commission and the external action service for further progress and the necessary steps. the text of the alternative resolution covers all the areas of application as the original text of the report and does not ignore the problems we have on the ground, but at the same time does not criticize the commission only one year after the gender action plan, by burdening the taxpayers of the european union with extensive budgetary requirements, ideological aspects not directly related to the implementation of the action plan. this report, ladies and gentlemen, should not be a place for ideological conflicts, it is a strong message from the european parliament that the union can and must, through its external action, have a daily impact on transforming the lives of women and girls. i'm available for further questions during the debate.
the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the preparation of this report and to this debate. i understand that there are some differences between us, but given that this is only the first year of the evaluation of this action plan, i think we should not be too critical because i believe from mr hahn's presentation that the commission is making the maximum effort. we all know that these are long-term processes and that it's not easy to change habits. i regret that some ideological themes should have become dominant in this report and that is why we are moving away, not from the report but from these ideological issues - we do not think they have a place there - but in any case we accept most of this resolution and therefore we have expressed all its points in an alternative resolution. i hope you will think about it tomorrow, that you will accept it, because in any case we must continue with these efforts, we must continue to work on gender equality, and i am sure that we will, through our work here in parliament, our missions, empower the lives of girls and women in third countries and that with the external action of the european commission, the status of women and girls in the four pillars that we mention in this report will certainly be improved. in any case, i hope that our thinking is positive, and those small differences will, i hope, be overcome in the future.
written. we are aware that the economic crisis has had a negative impact on european citizens, especially on the young population of europeans, who are the first victims of unemployment and lack of investment in education and culture. as a result, most fear for their future and feel sacrificed to economic interests. the implementation report of the eu youth strategy states that the youth strategy should be improved and strengthened, although the results are positive, but the objectives are far from being achieved. figures show that today in the eu almost 1 in 3 young people aged 18 to 24 are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the youth unemployment rate in the euro area remains above 20%. young people in employment face challenges such as precarious working conditions in terms of pay, stress and contract duration. sometimes it is very difficult for them to feel part of society. whether they're employed or not, a lack of trust in young people leads to, for example, loan denials. as a consequence, frustration and exclusion are increasing, with serious negative effects on living conditions, civic participation, emotional life and health of young people. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european youth observatory.
written. the economic crisis that hit europe in 2008 left many consequences behind, especially for young people. after the crisis began, it was necessary to make cuts and to start implementing a restrictive monetary policy. the first austerity measures were aimed at youth policy, i.e. reducing investment in social services, education, unemployment and culture. the results of the survey show that one in three young people in the european union, aged 18 to 24, is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the youth unemployment rate is still higher than it was before the crisis, so we had an unemployment rate of 18.7% in 2016, compared to 15.6% in 2008. as young people are one of the european union's main priorities, the eu youth strategy has been launched. the aim of this initiative is to provide as many equal opportunities as possible for all young people, to promote social inclusion and solidarity among young people. we can make the current strategy more effective and better coordinated by making young people the first stakeholders in policy-making, that is, by listening to their suggestions and their advice. young people need perspective and the ability to build a career and a life based on their qualifications, not to worry about having a sufficient pension. young people are a priority for the eu and that is why i am firmly behind the eu youth strategy.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i fully support the initiative of the nominating committee. capital and markets have globalized over the last 30 years or so, very strongly. unfortunately, the globalisation of labour rights, for which the european welfare state was known on a global scale, did not happen at the same time. the negative consequences of globalization have led to the emergence of the precariat, which is on its way to replacing the proletariat, even in some developed parts of the world. young, female and older workers have made a major contribution to redefining employment. the data show that each generation is less represented in permanent employment than the previous one. the analysis should include labour and forced migration as well as demographic changes. for example, my home country, the republic of croatia, is one of the countries with the highest percentage of the population over 60 years old, and as many as 25% of the workers work in precarious conditions. this is the time to debate the future of the european union. they must offer answers to this serious problem, because over time european integration has proved to be one-sided. too much emphasis was placed on market and monetary integration, and social and employment policies were largely neglected.
mr president, commissioner, the situation of prisoners in iran who are also european citizens is the best indicator of the general human rights situation and the situation in iranian prisons. and it's not hard to imagine that the situation with prisoners who don't have dual citizenship, and most do, is even more difficult. after massive protests in january, when 5,000 people were arrested and 14 died in prison under suspicious circumstances, the unrest in iran continues. in recent months, teachers, truck drivers, and protesters have expressed their dissatisfaction with the situation in iran during the may day celebrations, and in the city of kazerun, in the third month of this year, three protesters were killed and several others were injured and imprisoned during the protests. therefore, any deepening and expansion of relations with iran, the development of those relations, must be accompanied by an improvement in the conditions of prisoners and conditions in iranian prisons and, in general, the human rights situation in iran.
written. the concept of human rights refers to the legal, philosophical and political idea that every human being, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, nationality or religious belief, has certain inalienable and universal rights. when it comes to women's fundamental rights, saudi arabia is one of the leaders in violating and discriminating against women and girls. although the state is a muslim hereditary monarchy, fundamental human rights, as universal, must be respected. although the saudi government has repeatedly promised reforms, they are being implemented in a "slippery slope" as women in saudi arabia are treated as second-class citizens. the ban on women driving is lifted in 2018. a total of 38 women hold political office across the country of more than 32 million people, and they were only allowed to run three years ago. since 2016, physical education for girls has been banned in schools across the country. saudi laws are rigorous and women are completely subject to the so-called male guardianship system, as without the permission of a man (husband, father, brother or even a minor son) women cannot do some basic everyday things. it is unacceptable that women's fundamental rights activists are arrested because it is not a sign of openness to reform, quite the opposite.
madam chair, i took the floor first of all to support my colleague mr federley who has proposed this item on the agenda because it is a matter of nothing to hide. when scandals are what they are, like the oxfam scandal, we really have nothing to hide. and i must say at the outset that i support the commission's line. i think commissioner stylianides has made very clear today what the commission's ambitions are and what path it will take. why would you do that? because we just heard, a few minutes ago, colleagues from the far right who would like to exploit such adventurers, not to say bullies, to just cut off aid to those who need it most. let's not have that kind of standard. we know very well that many people are in dire need of european aid. many who suffer. and those who make such scandals, they should be prosecuted to the end and of course punished to the end by all legal means.
on behalf of the alde club. i am a liberal, as the chairman said, and we are basically based on the freedom and happiness of the individual. as liberals, we have one of those personal principles, and that is love your neighbor as yourself. whether he was gay, transgender or any other. love thy neighbor. and that is why i am speaking to the colleague who made this point, who comes from a traditional family. women are finally equal. let's get this straight. but on the other hand, i will say very clearly: i respect and support the celebration of the international day of families because i think it is very important, that it is inclusive and that it certainly contributes to solidarity. it brings more love, it brings more happiness. but let us never forget those who may not have that good fortune. i think about them, too, and i want to keep thinking about them.
madam chair, there's a lot of stuff at the next summit, from brexit, the multiannual financial framework, the defence union. but still, i think the theme that will dominate this session is the theme of migration. migration should be our main concern and i am convinced that no country can deal with this problem alone and therefore i appeal from this place to the european council to finally get involved in the adoption of the dublin reform and the asylum rules. the big problems, we've all seen, are emerging in italy, but you have problems again on the so-called balkan route, you have problems through bosnia and herzegovina, where new migration is happening and coming to the borders of croatia. you know that croatia is a country with a 1300 kilometers of external border of the european union, and at the same time we have a wire on the hungarian border, on the austrian border, on the slovenian border. we think that the wire is not the answer, so we need to work together to solve this problem through the asylum system. i also think schengen is very shaky. if we put checks inside the schengen borders, then the whole union is shaken at the same time. so i think the solution is that croatia finally gets political approval along with romania and bulgaria to enter the schengen area and in this way we solve problems together. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
mr. chairman, it is true, mrs. morgherini, as you said, that the nuclear agreement with iran is a pillar of security in this region of the middle east. i agree with you. i also agree that that pillar of security has been shaken by the withdrawal of the united states from that agreement. the only way to stop iran from building a nuclear bomb was this deal, and so it's a positive one. however, the fact is that there are massive human rights violations in iran, which we rarely mention here. i recently had the opportunity to be with the afet delegation in iran and i was able to see firsthand, from the conversation, the way that regime is maintained there and the way that the basic human rights of the citizens of iran are violated. i think we need to talk about this. also, let's not forget iran's aggressive policy toward israel. in any case, i think that there is a need to strengthen democracy and to work on regime change. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that is an interesting question. interestingly, however, today's topic is the iran nuclear deal. we are not talking about the human rights situation in the united states, which is a democratic state, and the subject of today is israel, but the fact that iran has an aggressive policy towards israel, we can document.
mr president, madam commissioner, iran is facing an economic crisis, unemployment, poverty, the suppression of basic human freedoms, and especially women's rights. we must not forget the fact that iran was the country with the highest number of executions in the past year, second only to china, which is contrary to our values in the european union, because we do not approve of the death penalty as a legal sanction. in iran, there are internal priorities that need to be worked on, in order to ensure that citizens have a life of dignity, freedom and fundamental rights. these are problems that the nuclear deal cannot and will not solve. the rights of the iranian people, of every child and every woman, of every political prisoner, must come first. i believe that these rights should have been a precondition for signing the contract. the iranian nuclear deal is important and well-intentioned, but it cannot ignore human rights violations and neglect of its own people, and the european union must respond appropriately.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, commissioner, i thank you for your kind words and for the extremely inspiring speech you gave about chile as one of the most important links with latin america and i must say that i am extremely proud to have had the opportunity to participate as a shadow reporter in the preparation of this report, and as a croat, for the role of the croatian diaspora that built chile, that helped to build croatia after the war in croatia, and that maintained peace in bosnia and herzegovina by its participation in the peacekeeping forces. i thank my colleague mr tannock for his excellent report which calls for further strengthening of cooperation between the european union and chile, through a new modernised association agreement. chile is a country that, with its successful democratic transition, can only serve as an example for other countries, and is one of the european union's key partners in cooperation in the fields of economy, investment, protection of human rights and cultural diversity. this new comprehensive and updated agreement seeks to further strengthen multilateral cooperation in the fields of migration, security, defence (again, their troops in bosnia and herzegovina were one of the shining examples), the fight against terrorism, organised crime and climate change, as well as encouraging regular dialogue on reducing socioeconomic disparities, strengthening human and fundamental rights. what i consider extremely important, and i will mention again, is the call to strengthen cultural cooperation and to strengthen the role of the diaspora as a link between latin america and europe, as seen in these examples i mentioned at the beginning. so those who went to south america, who built one country, they came back and successfully laid the foundations for new developing countries. so i hope that this report will serve as a good basis for concluding the negotiations and that it will allow chile to remain, as it has been, the european link on the continent.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, 3,666 christians were killed last year according to open doors. in 50 countries around the world that this organization surveys, 250 million christians are exposed to some form of violence, from hostility or discrimination to severe physical violence, and ultimately murder. these are frightening figures that speak to the real threats faced by christians worldwide on a daily basis. we talk about human rights every day, but i feel that too often we deal with issues that go beyond the framework of fundamental human rights and that should not be the focus of the european union's action. i think the european union should do more to protect human rights, to protect people who fear for their lives, parents who lose their children, children who lose their carefree childhood, and the help of other countries does not reach such areas. the question is, if we don't help them, who will? and what is our role if we allow human rights to be violated quietly?
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, madam commissioner, i congratulate my colleague ioana on an excellent report, because it covers the entire catalogue of cooperation between the european union, nato and those areas that still need upgrading. from military capabilities, peacekeeping missions, hybrid threats to helping partner countries, but also neighbouring countries, build their capabilities and strengthen their resilience. threats to the existing way nato works are a political reality. the discussions on the eu-nato relationship even include trade preferences. similarly, with the uk's departure, as much as 80% of nato's fiscal capacity will be outside the european union. the european union was created to keep the peace. this should be its fundamental function on a global scale as well. however, the european union must accept geopolitical changes and be prepared to contribute to global security with adequate own capacities. the eu's defence capabilities should be developed to respond more effectively to crises, strengthen transatlantic ties and contribute to nato. the report by mr paşcu summarises parliament's position on this important issue and makes a valuable contribution to the debate on the future of defence and security cooperation at global level.
madam president, high commissioner, my congratulations to the rapporteur on a well-prepared report which aims to highlight the importance of the strategic partnership between the european union and nato in countering common threats and challenges on the global stage. hybrid threats, terrorism, the migratory pressures we see today through the balkan route, cyber attacks as well as hostile disinformation campaigns are just some of the challenges facing the eu and nato member states, and accordingly they require a joint response with the aim of eliminating them. the european union's cooperation with nato is also an integral pillar of european stability and security and, as part of the european union's global strategy, contributes to peace and stability at the global level. however, i must stress the importance of taking further steps towards the creation of the european union's own forces with the aim of maintaining peace, stability and security at its own borders and in its neighbourhood. given the fact that some nato member states have serious problems with respecting fundamental human rights, i think the next logical step would be to create european capacities to guarantee peace and stability in the region, and in particular in the western balkans, while respecting fundamental human rights which are today so easily trampled on in some of our partner countries.
madam president, i very much welcome this report and i am prepared to vote in favour of it. i am very glad that we are talking about nato and eu cooperation here and that we are not trying to talk about alternative military structures that we would create and that would be competitive with nato. this is extremely important for us in the czech republic. we, the eu, are not a military defence alliance. we have different rules and we need to have a defense component, a defense component, primarily at the nato level. this does not prevent us, the eu member states, from cooperating more in the field of military research, in the field of military procurement, so that there may be another form of cooperation, but a european army should not be created. i think that's very important and the report is going in the right direction. nato is a partner, not a competitor, and i support it very much.
madam president, nato is the key framework for european security. while there is a need for reform to respond more effectively to new security challenges, it is important that both the european union and the united states remain committed to this alliance. the union member states have a legitimate desire to achieve european specificity in responding to security challenges. it is natural for everyone to want to hold their destiny primarily in their own hands and tailor a defense system to their needs. cooperation with global partners within nato is not an obstacle to this. indeed, us president trump's call for more european defence spending opens up an opportunity to strengthen european political influence and our defence capabilities within the alliance.
madam president, i thank the rapporteurs for the positions presented and all those who negotiated the text of the joint statement. in spring 2014, ukraine started implementing a reform programme to stabilise the economy and improve the living conditions of citizens. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this includes anti-corruption reforms and transparent spending of allocated money. these conditions are justified, but it is necessary to welcome the results achieved in the unchanged difficult political situation in ukraine, which seems to be sinking in the list of foreign policy priorities due to the emergence of some new crises. i welcome the adoption of the law on the anti-corruption court as an important step in the reforms required for the welfare of the citizens of ukraine, so we should vote tomorrow without adding additional elements to the adopted text, which would open interinstitutional processes and further delay the payment. however, i also support the continuation of the monitoring of the implementation of reforms, in particular as regards the fulfilment of the conditions linked to past and future macro-financial assistance programmes. the eu is also committed to the development of a stronger and more democratic judiciary capable of effectively combating corruption and ensuring respect for human rights, which should be the subject of a specific memorandum of understanding with ukraine. macro-financial assistance would help economic stabilisation and structural reforms in ukraine, our important neighbour, which is why i support the new payment.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs and their teams who have been valuable and irreplaceable partners in the creation of this report. i also want to thank my colleagues from the envi committee for their contributions through their opinions. we regret that mrs crețu is not with us today, but we trust that our messages today will reach her and that we can count on her in the fight for a stronger circular economy in european funds. the report on cohesion policy and circular economy comes at the right time with concrete proposals and strong support from the regional development committee. the commission has presented to us the draft multiannual financial framework, as well as the draft common provisions and the draft structural and investment funds. it is positive that the plans recognise the circular economy as one of the european union's leading public policies, and i also welcome the commission's proposal that the disposal of unsorted waste, mechanical biological treatment of waste and incineration of waste without recovery will no longer be financed from european funds. we are currently in a challenging position in achieving the objectives of the waste directive because we have not followed the waste hierarchy and long-term planning. this report draws attention to these bad practices and proposes solutions to reverse these negative trends through european public policies. the circular economy should not be a brussels policy imposed on us, but a policy thought through at local, regional and national level, which is why we propose an ex-ante condition in the form of a circular economy strategy as a prerequisite for thinking at local and national level about what a circular economy is for our communities, how we can best achieve it, create new green jobs and achieve european goals for the benefit of local communities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline. the potential for our regions and local communities is huge, waste is a big political problem for most, but we in the circular economy see it as a solution. the development of secondary markets for raw materials, the use of green and circular public procurement, the promotion of investments in the bio-economy, investment in renewable energy sources and advanced networks, and the promotion of innovation and business model development by smes in line with the principles of the circular economy are just some of the tools available to states, regions and local authorities. through cohesion policy and the circular economy, we are strengthening a european union that is solidary, sustainable in the long term and economically resilient.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, environmental protection and sustainability are an important part of all european policies, and the circular economy is a key model for achieving our ambitions in this area. i would therefore like to congratulate my colleague mr škrleček on his excellent report and his contribution to the debate on the future of this governance model. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund. the report rightly points out that the circular economy does not only encompass waste management but also, inter alia, the efficient use of resources, renewable energy, water management and improvement of air quality. these are some of the most important questions that plague croatian citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency (eea) to support the implementation of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea) in the field of environmental protection. the commission has also proposed that the budgetary impact of the cohesion fund be reduced by a further eur 5 billion.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i would like to stress right from the start that cohesion policy and the circular economy are the best examples of how some policies go hand in hand, how some of the policies we are advocating here, which we are talking about in the european parliament, are actually two sides of the same coin. i'd say gold medals here. because what cohesion policy is and what the circular economy is really deserves, in the words of the olympic dictionary, a gold medal. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank and congratulate mr škrlec on his report and all of us who worked on this report, because i believe that it really reflects what is not the future of the european union, but what is the present of the european union. the imperative to create green jobs is something that is needed today, not tomorrow. waste management, all that is really happening in our environment, speaks to the need to invest the money from cohesion policy into the circular economy. we have many examples on our continent, great examples, but unfortunately we have many of those other examples and we need to talk about them. i want to highlight one relevant fact - there is no success in waste management, no success in the circular economy, no opening of green spaces, unless local and regional governments are strongly involved. there is a lot of evidence for this and my personal experience speaks very clearly in this direction and that is why i am calling on the commission to talk about what the failures have been when we talk about investing in waste management, because we have them, and what we will do to remedy those failures. there is a lot of ground to cover in this report and i believe that it has been presented at the right time and i expect the commission to find the means to finance it.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you again for this report and for the debate that we’ve had this evening. i think we’re all agreed that, if we get it right, the circular economy has the potential to support economic growth and regional development, while at the same time boosting environmental protection. we’ve discussed, this evening, a number of the potential gains and, from the commission side, we agree with many of the points that have been made in the debate. we have sought to target support during the current period, but, as many of you have stressed, it’s also important that we integrate these objectives in our proposals for the next period – the post-2020 period. the transition to a circular economy is now included in the policy objectives that we are earmarking. although the circular economy strategies are not yet implemented widely enough to be a new enabling condition, we are excluding the least desirable waste management options from the scope of funding. again, the monitoring framework includes new indicators more closely linked to the circular economy and the objectives we’ve been discussing, such as the use of recycled waste as raw materials. now we’ll also have a tracking methodology that supports environmental objectives next to the tracking of climate objectives. a number of other points have come up in discussion and, as we undertook at the beginning, we will make a careful report on all of those to ms creţu and her team. the circular economy requires considerable changes to the way we live our lives and run our economies, and that requires the effort, support and engagement of a wide range of stakeholders who are trying to make the circular economy happen in all regions, local authorities and cities, but it is worth the effort. that is the main message that i take away from tonight’s debate.
the reporter. madam president, i thank all my colleagues and the commissioner for their contributions to today's debate. i'm going to look at just a few details that i think are important that we might highlight and actually explain even more to our citizens. first, it is very important to strengthen the capacity of our local and regional governments. as a matter of fact, i note that the response to last year's european commission's call for proposals for advisory assistance to regional self-government units was very weak in the countries of central and eastern europe. so this part of the european union did not recognise the circular economy as a potential for developing its economy in time. investing in the entrepreneurial sector is also very important to enable it to make the transition to a circular economy. so here's another example -- the other day i bought wooden spoons, forks, knives from a european chain store to replace the single-use plastic products that we use today, but what surprised me was that it was made in china, not in the european union. so china has recognized the european union's circular economy policy and has actually applied the biomaterials that they sell to us in the market today. so we need to empower our entrepreneurship to become competitive on a global scale. 'smart specialisation' was mentioned, it is very important for our regions to recognise their local potential. so that, i would say, through the new horizon europe in the research and development of new materials using biomaterials actually developed products, namely those that are today based on single-use plastics. i therefore support the commission's initiative for a proposal for a directive on the limitation of the use of single-use plastics and, of course, the proposal for a directive amending the drinking water directive. and finally, i would just like to point out what are actually our most important messages, which our colleague pietikäinen has already pointed out, and that is that in this programming period we have projects, we have money from european funds that has been misused. so ex ante conditions that respect the waste hierarchy are actually conditions for funding circular economy, or those projects. developing national strategies that will actually be in line with the european circular economy policy and, as the commissioner pointed out, that we have a clear methodology for monitoring indicators of investment in circular economy projects.
mr. chairman, i want to draw a parallel. it may seem extreme to you, but i am deeply convinced that it is true. those who do not want to ratify the istanbul convention, they want us to return to the middle ages. they still think the earth is flat, they still think that many women should perhaps be burned at the stake. i want to talk about it this way because what we're talking about here today is really incredible: that in this european union we still have countries, we have politicians in power, who don't want to ratify the istanbul convention. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, macedonia and serbia have ratified the istanbul convention, and the czech republic, slovakia, hungary and some other countries, and some that want to withdraw their ratification, are in a way witches of the european union.
written. it is indisputable that the eu, like every member state, strongly condemns all forms of violence and has zero tolerance for them. each member state has a legal framework and associated mechanisms to combat violence against women and domestic violence. it is the member state that adopts the measures and mechanisms that prevent violence, it is the member state that responds promptly in cases of violence because when violence occurs, there is no time to wait, there is no time for european monitoring mechanisms. many member states already have systems in place to combat violence. among them is croatia, which already has all the mechanisms envisaged by the istanbul convention to combat violence embedded in its legislation. the key to solving the problem of violence of any kind is prevention. croatia ratified the istanbul convention on 13 april 2018, but citizens of the republic of croatia recently collected 377,635 signatures for a referendum on deratification of the convention. these are not signatures for violence, these are signatures against an ideology that wants to impose itself under the guise of fighting against violence. when we consider that ten member states have not ratified the convention, we must ask ourselves why and show understanding, rather than imposing on our citizens what they do not want and on member states to determine how they will act in areas where they have exclusive competence.
dear prime minister rutte, welcome and thank you for your contribution to this important debate. like you, i see the union as a community of sovereign states cooperating with each other on issues to which the european level can give better answers than the national level. but you and i both know that subsidiarity is a principle that the eu institutions too often forget. i'm glad you're one of the few leaders who's said loud and clear that we don't need europe anymore. we need a better europe that trusts its member states and intervenes only in areas where it can offer added value. which areas are those must be the result of consensus. you said the union was not a menu from which each man could take only what suited him. i agree, with the added bonus that rules that apply equally to everyone should be adopted unanimously, not imposed on anyone. this union must be founded on good faith or there is no future. and by the way, john wayne did what the scriptwriters told him to do, and so far the scriptwriters for the eu are not doing such a good job.
mr president, migration is a challenge for the european union, but the problem should have been tackled at the source, not in europe. it was necessary to distinguish between war migrants and economic migrants and to provide assistance to those who save naked lives. it is tragic that people in the mediterranean are losing their lives in search of a better life. in 2014, i warned that the causes must be addressed first and that the european union must start to fight more vigorously against smugglers and traffickers who have ensnared thousands of families by promising them a better life. it was also necessary to help stabilize conditions in countries from which people had fled in droves and to provide refuge in the first neighboring country. such activities should have been the focus of the european union's attention and its money. over a million migrants arrived by boat, 35,000 by land, and 3,770 migrants died crossing the mediterranean, which is frightening. we need to be more efficient and root out the causes of migration. we need to act before people get on the ships.
mr president, no one can remain indifferent to the plight of the migrants, including 120 children, who are in difficult conditions on board waiting to be taken in by italy or malta, which do not want to take them in. we're all very emotional about it, and in such circumstances, the easiest thing to do is point the finger at those who have closed their doors to them. but we must not forget that the countries that are now so easily demonized have already taken in huge numbers of migrants and cannot be accused of a lack of humanity and solidarity. we must be more decisive in our fight against smugglers who knowingly and for profit put people's lives in danger. illegal immigration is completely unacceptable precisely because it puts people in harm's way. ngos rescuing migrants in the mediterranean need to do so in better coordination with national authorities to avoid situations where the rescued ship has nowhere to land. each rescued migrant must be provided with advance accommodation in a safe harbour.
i expect that today's debate will contribute to more effective negotiations on a new partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. the european union must seize the opportunity offered by these negotiations on a new post-cotonou partnership agreement and make development aid the main instrument of public diplomacy. the development aid provided by the european union must be more visible and serve as a tool for a more effective foreign policy. this will prevent security threats resulting from the lack of recognition of the solidarity shown by the european union towards countries whose democracies are seeking consolidation and stability. the renewed cooperation of the european union with the african, caribbean and pacific group of states must contribute to peace and stability at global level. the european union has deep historical ties with these countries and a privileged partnership. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external borders and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's external borders. in order to prevent, it is necessary to improve the collection and exchange of information, as well as to strengthen the resilience of societies and economies in crisis-affected countries.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i have had the opportunity on a number of occasions to visit israel, i have had the opportunity to work with companies that had high technology, with companies that are involved in the aviation industry and, given the circumstances, because of the aviation industry, of course, i have had the opportunity to meet other very sophisticated companies and i have personally seen what israel means when we talk about research, when we talk about development and when we talk about cooperation with the member countries of the european union. i think we need to consider a lot of things before we make our final decisions, because one thing is for sure - i'm not thrilled with anything the israeli government is doing, to be absolutely clear. on the other hand, it is certain that we cannot break off cooperation suddenly and in the manner proposed. i agree and i want and ask the commission to review all the regulations, whether all the decisions that have been taken are based on our regulations that we have adopted ourselves; never enough control, in fact - let's review everything again, whether we are doing everything right, but i am not for this way and with the arguments presented here we are going to stop cooperation. i think that we could do more damage to ourselves here, because of the fact that there is excellent scientific cooperation between universities, between scientists, that there is also excellent economic cooperation, and we have to talk about this very clearly and openly. so i believe that this is not the way to put things. the solution is certainly to talk to the israeli government, to the politicians in israel, to warn them about those things that we don't like either, but we can't escape the fact that israel is not a state of law, that it doesn't respect human rights, so there are extremists and extremists here, in this parliament, if you will. and there and there, because i listen to them, and so do you, and that's why i don't want to, so to speak, see the forest for the trees. i think we must be really wise, clever and cautious here, in asking the commission to do another job, respecting of course your political group, because that is the request of a political group. if that is the case, the commission must do its job, but i call for seriousness and responsibility at a time like this.
mr mamikins has a question. i don't have a question. i would just like to ask you for something, mr president. it's not possible that the commissioner isn't here. mr moedas must get a red card, not a blue card, a red card for commissioner moedas. i'm asking you to do this. the question is probably mr mamikins's. sorry again.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, mr vice-president, i would like to start by expressing my support for this report, which we have been waiting for for a long time, but we have it and i believe that integrated farm statistics will now be much more efficient, as my colleague zoana says, and more flexible and rational. what i would like to emphasize, of course, is that one of the key themes of this statistic is the issue of climate change. everything that affects agriculture, we know today, for sure, among other things, is climate change. and it's in that context that i think it's very important that we have more precise, more accurate data on what farmers are facing today. but i want to highlight one of my personal experiences: i asked for data, statistics, classic agricultural statistics for what is produced organically and what is produced under protected geographical origin as an agricultural product. of course i got information on how many hectares we have under organic farming in the european union and of course i got information on how many hectares we have under protected products, or protected geographical origin, but i didn't get information on how many of these protected products are produced organically. and vice versa, of course. so we're missing the statistics. it is very important, because i believe that the competitiveness of the european economy is precisely in that part of the agricultural economies.
respected chair, early forced marriages constitute a gross violation of the human rights of children and minors. any strategy against such forms of sexual and domestic violence that seeks to be credible must imply zero tolerance for such practices on european soil. i support the rapporteur's call for member states that tolerate child marriage to set a uniform minimum age of 18 as the minimum age for marriage. any coercion should be condemned and discouraged, but even when it comes to the voluntary marriage of minors, i consider it a bad phenomenon. to assume the responsibilities and obligations that marriage brings requires a measure of physical and mental maturity that minors in many cases lack.
written. child marriage is a global problem that transcends country, culture, and religion. the figures are the facts: today, more than 750 million women worldwide are married before the age of 18. early and forced marriages have extremely negative consequences on the physical and mental health and personal development of the persons concerned, as well as on the children born of such marriages and on society as a whole. i fully support this report as the next step in the eu's external strategy against early and forced marriage, as the eradication of these practices, which constitute serious violations of human rights, the right to equality, independence and bodily integrity, is identified as one of the priorities of the eu's external action in the field of the promotion of women's rights and human rights. this report, which i support, notes that some eu member states allow marriage at 16 with parental consent, and therefore calls on legislators, both in eu countries and in third countries, to set a uniform minimum age of 18 as the minimum age for marriage and to put in place the necessary administrative, judicial and financial measures to enforce this requirement, for example by promoting the registration of marriages and births and ensuring that girls have access to institutional support mechanisms, including psychosocial counselling, protection mechanisms and economic empowerment opportunities.
madam president, commissioner cañete, in the context of this resolution and in the current political context of the european union facing the unresolved problem of migration, i would like to stress the need for effective coordination on the negotiation of two global agreements on refugees and migration, in order to prepare a more effective international response to this problem. all countries facing a refugee wave must be provided with adequate support and assisted in finding a solution based on respect for human rights. by tackling the problem of transnational organised crime that uses the emergence of migration waves as a new source of wealth, global peace and security as well as the stability of the european union's borders will be protected. i would like to emphasize at the end that the european union, which provides 75 billion euros in development aid, is positioned as the world's leading donor. however, what is needed is greater spending on development aid by other un member states, as well as their more responsible approach to implementing and respecting fundamental human rights. all this is necessary to have a new and reformed united nations, whose foundation and main supporter is the european union.
i am encouraged by the activities of the austrian presidency presented here, mr president, because i believe they are focused on the right challenges and will be addressed in the right way. it is in no one's interest to keep burning issues in the background or, worse, to ignore them altogether. i can only welcome the approach of chancellor kurz and his government to migration, enlargement and the future functioning of the union. we need less europe and more subsidiarity. the european union should not accept uncontrolled numbers of migrants and then get caught up in bickering over their redistribution, but must reform its asylum system and protect its external borders. as croatia has the longest external land border, i expect austria and the other member states to help croatia secure all the resources needed for effective surveillance.
mr president, i am delighted to be able to be a co-rapporteur in the shadow of mr lietze and mr leinen, and i think this is a fairly balanced agreement, or report. the fact is that the paris agreement is in place, that its provisions need to be implemented, which is not the case in all countries at this point. much greater coordination is needed between the member states and the union itself. what's a big threat to the 21st century is climate-induced migration. as much as many here today may not want to admit it, climate change is at work and it is the greatest challenge of the 21st century. we have to fight this very strongly, and that's why i think climate diplomacy is very important, we have to professionalize it and strengthen it. i hope this report will contribute to that objective. anyway, i supported this report as a shadow reporter.
madam president, migration has re-emerged as the dominant theme, not because of the high influx of people as in 2015, but as a reflection of new political opportunities in italy and the coalition crisis in germany. some things have unfortunately remained the same and the reform of the dublin agreement and the common asylum system has still not been agreed. although solidarity does not work in practice, the success of the conclusions that controlled centres will be set up only on a voluntary basis is again being discussed. this severely limits solutions to the migration crisis and only serves to defuse political tensions in some member states. the announcement of the deployment of german border police to the schengen borders is particularly worrying, as it would be an additional contribution to the collapse of schengen. croatia, as the member state with the longest external border of the european union, should not be excluded from such partial agreements. in conclusion, congratulations to macedonia and albania. both countries deserve to open negotiations without further delay. but in times when enlargement lacks sufficient political support as part of a comprehensive solution, such steps are still progress.
mr president, first of all i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who worked on the mobility package. i support the compromises reached and consider them very good, given the complexity of the subject. it is very important that the labour market is regulated in an appropriate way and that all the rules that need to be protected for posted workers are recognised, including minimum wages, but if the posted workers directive were to cover transport operations other than cabotage itself, this would jeopardise the legal certainty of persons wishing to pursue their registered activity. although the european union is a community, it is normal for each country to want to protect its territory and preserve the competitiveness of its companies, but it is not acceptable that this results in restricting the entrepreneurial freedoms of other members. as regards cabotage, i believe that the current proposal achieves the main objective of avoiding empty runs while protecting against disturbance of the host country's market. i urge everyone to accept this mobility package.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to begin by congratulating mr tőkés on his excellent report on the new and enhanced eu-armenia comprehensive partnership agreement. the union's contribution to the implementation of the agreement is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 and the amount of eur 300000000 is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 and the amount of eur 300000000 is limited to the amount of eur 300000000 and the amount of eur 300000000 is limited to the amount of eur 300000000. finally, and most importantly, i hope that the new agreement will give the warring parties in the nagorno-karabakh conflict a new impetus in finding solutions to stabilize relations. in this regard, i believe that dialogue between religious and cultural leaders is needed to reduce tensions in conflict areas and to find a lasting and satisfactory solution for peace and coexistence.
prime minister of poland. thank you very much for your votes, ladies and gentlemen. i will start with a comment on the last one, because it is a very interesting aspect of the defence of the rule of law by one of the members of parliament, the upper house, defending the high pensions of the special communist services, those services that murdered polish heroes and that also murdered people i knew. well, that's the difference between some of our opposition today and us, that we want to change those rules and that's why we have reduced the pensions of the special agents of the communist service and raised the pensions of the solidarity activists. that's the difference. and we're certainly not going to change that, mr. europostle. we're not going to change that. ladies and gentlemen! we are on the same side on values, but we cannot dictate the rule of law to the member states. the systems are very different and the differences between these systems need to be taken into account. this is also why justice and home affairs are the exclusive competence of the member states. it is not part of the acquis communautaire within the meaning of the union's competences. therefore, to the question whether poland will respect the judgments of the court, i answer: of course poland respects the judgments of the court. there are 50 judgments of the court of justice in the european union today that have not been implemented. poland has no problem with that. but at the same time, it must be noted that there are eu competences, that is, those transferred from the member states to the community as a whole, and there are national competences, national competences. and the judiciary is a national competence. ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament rightly wants to be at the centre of the debate on the european union, but many of you unnecessarily reduce the dimension of this debate to matters which fall within the competence of the member states. we are therefore losing the opportunity to play a key role in the debate. and if we are not losing out completely, then at least partially, because the key elements are precisely those which you and i have partly discussed here, namely the single market and the harmonization of economic rules, where it makes sense in the first place. i would like to conclude by pointing out two areas: the freedom to provide services, which can boost the competitiveness of the european union as a whole, and support for small and mediumsized enterprises. because the big guys are doing fine, but there's no middle class support. there will be no support for the idea of integration if there is no support among small and medium-sized enterprises. mr jáuregui atondo asked rhetorically whether we should tackle issues such as the sealing of the vat system and tax havens together or separately. dear mr. europass, i sign this with both hands. after the great successes our government has had in the last two and a half years in the area of tax relief, which has allowed us to eliminate child poverty and to pursue proud pro-social policies, to take the next step, we must act together. poland has asked every european council, including the one held last week, to work together to defeat terrorism, terrorists, vat mafias, tax criminals and tax avoidance, i.e. tax havens. there were also voices broadly referring to the euro area. there are a lot of questions hanging in the air here, ladies and gentlemen. and economists from all sides are wondering whether the eurozone is solving problems or creating problems. we wait for the different banking systems, the different financial systems to sort out their problems, and we try to help where we can. but today - and i used to specialise in optimal currency areas - i can say that it makes sense to create a common currency between countries that are at a relative level of macro- and micro-economic convergence. poland and central europe are catching up with western europe because after world war ii we were left on the wrong side of the iron curtain. ladies and gentlemen! so, once again, i'm going to summarize these three things. for the future europe to be great and strong, we need europe 4.0, the european union at the forefront of the technological revolution, the industrial revolution, the digital revolution. we work closely with the european commission here. this is a very important part of the agenda and the future of the common market. second, the union is secure. and thank you for all the voices here in so many places. i didn't expect us to speak in unison. and this is a very good sign both in the context of nordstream ii and the transatlantic agenda, the fight against protectionism, but also the common defence policy. i think it's a positive sign for the future. but there is also a third aspect: a civil union, a socially sensitive union, which supports its citizens and protects them from the power of global corporations. and the reasoning goes like this: when the big corporations took over the national markets 100 years ago, we created national antitrust agencies, antitrust offices. today, there are global monopolies and we don't have global antitrust offices. that is why poland supports the digital tax, which the french president spoke about, and the fight against tax havens, and the fight for a fair distribution of income, which will make the european middle class, which is made up of the middle classes in the individual nation states, believe again in the idea of europe, the idea of a great europe, and the proud nations of europe will continue in a changed configuration, in a changed system, to be able to build this future of europe. i believe that deeply. i thank you very much for all the votes, including the critical ones. i think that part of you, at least part of you, have also been convinced that we have the right to reform our tax systems, our justice system, our internal affairs. that is the competence of the member states. we are thus strengthening one of the key member states of the european union and will be able to make an even better, stronger contribution to building a europe that is strong, innovative and united. thank you very much. thank you.
rapporteur. – madam president, under rule 59(4) i would like to propose that the draft legislative act be referred back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rules 59a and 69c.
madam president, the new italian government is an expression of the free will of the italian people. we don't have to like her, but we have to work with her. it is easy to be angry at italy today because of certain statements or policies of its officials, but we must not forget how many lives have been saved in italian waters, how many people have experienced their first freedom by landing on italian shores, and how many migrants the country has welcomed in the last fifteen years or so. italy's entry into the eurozone brought great discontent, and the economic crisis hit it hard. italian public finances are still unstable, and citizens are clearly on the verge of impatience. it should not surprise us that in such circumstances more and more people look the other way when it comes to those who often illegally use the welfare system rather than contribute. but any responsible authority, even if it wants to correct certain wrongs, must be careful that its actions do not make matters worse and cause insurmountable divisions among people. i call on the new italian government to be truly responsible.
mr president, if we want a europe that is in every sense a safe environment for its citizens and for all those who find refuge in it, the improvement of it solutions for border control and surveillance is of great importance. the european travel information and authorisation system, through an advanced computerised platform, will enable the rapid and efficient exchange of information relevant to the prevention of threats to citizens' safety and public health. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules.
written. i welcome the decision to suspend direct financial support to the burundian administration for violations of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. but we must continue to provide direct assistance to the citizens of burundi through investment in projects because a third of them are not able to feed their families today. more than 400,000 people have fled burundi to seek refuge in neighbouring countries because of violations of civil liberties and the rule of law. we cannot support a government that has withdrawn from the rome statute and thereby suspended the jurisdiction of the international criminal court, a government that has sentenced germain rukukia, an employee of the catholic lawyers association, to 32 years in prison on trumped-up charges. in burundi, in 2011, a nun, sister lucretia mamić, who ran a center for malnourished children and cared for more than 1,500 children, was murdered in a convent. she gave her life helping the citizens of burundi who deserve freedom, equality, return to their homes and our full support. let's not let her sacrifice be in vain.
author. dear president, high representative, pakistan ranks fifth among the fifty countries where it is most difficult to be a christian according to the 2018 world index of persecution of christians compiled by open doors. of the 8 million members of religious minorities in pakistan, 3.9 million are christians. pakistan has a continuous enforcement of the blasphemy law, which puts pressure on christians and other religious minorities. the supreme court of pakistan considers that persons accused of blasphemy are exposed to disproportionate and irreparable suffering due to the lack of adequate safeguards against the misapplication or abuse of this law. asia bibi, a christian, was arrested and sentenced to death by hanging in 2010 under this law and is currently in prison on false charges. asia's not the only one. a pakistani police officer kidnapped a 14-year-old girl, sumbal arif, and forced her to convert to islam. asma yaqoob, a 25-year-old christian woman, died after being poisoned and then burned by muslim rizwan gujjar on april 10, 2018, all because she refused to convert to islam and marry him. asia, sumbal and asma. we know their terrible fates. i wonder what will happen to the thousands of unnamed girls and women who suffer because of this law? how can the lives of christians in pakistan be worth nothing? and that those who commit crimes against them go unpunished? it is clear that there is no political will in pakistan to respect human rights, women's rights and the rights of christians because the sindh penal code, which provides penalties for forced conversion, has remained unratified. however, the eu nonetheless allowed pakistan to join the special general scheme of the gsp+ benefits. we've allowed them to profit from an estimated one billion euros a year in trade surplus with the european union, even though it's more than obvious that pakistan is not by nature implementing international conventions that concern human rights. we have an obligation to protect fundamental religious freedoms in relation to third countries. the freedoms of religion, its unhindered acceptance, external worship and practice in one's own life, occupy a special place among the general human rights. and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the objectives of the eu's foreign and security policy. to ensure that freedom is not taken lightly, we must condition our foreign policy on it, for only then will we secure true peace. otherwise, while respect for human rights is taken lightly and 'pushed under the carpet' for economic cooperation, while money seems to be more important to us than human lives, i fear we share responsibility for asia, sumbal and asma and for all persecuted christians around the world, and christians today, let's not forget, are the most persecuted religious group in the world.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my personal solidarity with all those who suffer in pakistan for religious reasons, with the christians who suffer in pakistan, with others who suffer in that country. i want to express my great solidarity with the women who are being tortured, murdered and raped for religious reasons. violence against women in pakistan is just one example of what we are witnessing in our time, the injustices that are done to women or other minorities that exist, religious minorities, but pakistan is unfortunately not the only country, we have many more to list and they are often partners of the european union. what i want to emphasize is that of course we see positive developments, of course we see what it means to hope that the world will be better, that pakistan will be a better place to live for both women and christians and that other countries will be a better place to live for various minorities. i have dedicated my life to fighting for the rights of minorities, to fighting for what it means to have human dignity and honor, and that's why i want to emphasize that the responsibility for everything that happens in the world lies first and foremost with those people who are not worthy of looking in their own backyard. let's look first in our own backyard because if we say about this issue that the law that has not yet entered into force in the sindh region, has not entered into force because of the protests of conservative religious communities, i cannot but draw a parallel with the extreme religious communities in croatia who are opposed to the ratification of the istanbul convention. another real woman, only somewhere else on our continent. it is impossible not to draw this parallel and it is impossible not to point out such hypocrisy and that is why i invite you, high commissioner, to really look at all the elements we have talked about today. of course, your duty is to promote european ideas, to promote what the european union is in pakistan and elsewhere, what we have created as a continent, values that many must learn from us. but on the other hand, i believe that first of all, if we want to be honest, if we want to be truly sincere christians, we have to put our hand on our heart first and then look in the other person's backyard. (the member agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, there is no doubt that in pakistan or in iran, where i was, where all meetings begin with prayer, we have something that is not in some way the case in europe anymore. we have a case in one of those countries. i think we have to first of all understand the situation, but try to really do what is most important to us, the values that we have and those are the values of minorities, opposing violence, especially against women and girls. that is what we have to do and do everything in those countries, and will everyone... (the chairman withdrew)
on behalf of the ecr club of representatives. - mr. chairman, i apologize, but i did not answer.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the different starting positions of the member states are still an important cause of their uneven development. but in this age of universal technological progress, in which the whole world, including its less developed parts, is richer than ever, in europe we should have had much easier time overcoming the initial inequalities. unfortunately, that hasn't happened or it's happening slowly. because the less developed member states did not have valuable know-how at the beginning of their european journey, and some of them did not understand the importance of structural reforms. today, as members of the union, they use a variety of mechanisms to gather the knowledge needed for reform, but the reform processes themselves often lack a source of funding. any real reform saves money in the long run because it makes processes faster, employees more efficient and educated, and services to citizens better, but it costs money to implement. that is why this structural reform support programme is extremely important. the increase in the financial envelope from 142,8 to a total of as much as eur 300 million ensures that the programme will be able to support the reform efforts of any member state that requests it. this is particularly important in the context of the new recession that our economies will face in the near future. there is no better preparation for a crisis than structural reforms and that is why we must support member states in their efforts to implement them, and where there is no awareness we need to make additional efforts. when we talk about a new recession, which is a normal part of any business cycle, it is important to note that we have also amended article 4 by including support for preparing for accession to the euro area among the objectives of the programme. we will thus ensure that all members wishing to join the euro meet all the criteria and are more resilient to the crisis in order to avoid some of the difficult scenarios that we witnessed in the last recession. my personal priority in working on this report was to ensure that the increase in the financial envelope was not done at the expense of cohesion policy, which is already under severe strain. cohesion policy is a key mechanism for strengthening the capacity of less developed countries and reducing disparities between member states, and we must preserve it in its current form. i am pleased with the solution reached whereby the increase in the envelope to eur 222.8 million is achieved through the use of the flexibility instruments, while a further eur 77.2 million can be achieved by transferring funds from the technical assistance budget at the request of the member states. another aspect of this proposal that i must highlight is the involvement of the local community in the implementation of the reform. in accordance with the constitutional and administrative organisation of each member state, local and regional authorities should be involved in the reform process. i think it is very important that reforms are tailored to the people, not to the bureaucracy, and that their funding is as transparent as possible. since october this year is the deadline for the submission of projects that should be funded by the programme in 2019, i have personally engaged to inform the stakeholders from croatia. i urge, of course, all others to undertake a comprehensive campaign of information to all stakeholders as soon as possible so that the funds are fully utilized. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this report through their work in the committees and all those who will support it in the vote.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. mr president, i would like to start by expressing my full support for the rapporteur on these proposals which she has put forward in today's debate and, of course, to underline that the 300 million we have in this envelope can really help those countries which really want reforms, because some governments may not want reforms. but those who do, will certainly have support in doing so, especially when we talk about joining the euro, we know the problems that were when joining the euro and when some members joined the euro. we have those who want to join the euro, but of course they may have corresponding difficulties in their structural reforms. so i think it's extremely important that we seek support for this report. i also want to stress the importance of reform and help to local and regional self-government because there is life, in municipalities, cities, in regions there is life, first of all. and it is precisely in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity and helping those countries that want to reform their regional and local system that i think this envelope is extremely important.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting debate and for the support which many of you have clearly expressed for this amendment. for the european commission this file is of high priority. it will enable us to increase our support in eu member states and finalise an important package of proposals for deepening economic and monetary union. we are grateful that thanks to your engagement and constructive approach on this legislative text, it looks like the member states will be able to benefit from a higher budget for technical support and for a more targeted support for those who wish to adopt the euro already next year in 2019. this is a step towards a more integrated, more resilient and more cohesive economic and monetary union and it is a step in the right direction.
the reporter. mr. chairman, here, very briefly. twenty-four member states have come forward and i see no reason why we should not support them, especially for some member states it means very, very much. we know what problems some member states have, we also know that we haven't even tried to help them, we haven't even tried to see what problems they have, so through this support programme i think we can fix that to some extent. i would like to thank once again all those who took part in the debate and all those who will vote in favour of this report. thank you very much.
written. as the epp shadow rapporteur for this report, i am pleased that it has been particularly emphasised that priority should be given to member states outside the euro area, which we want to help achieve convergence and meet the criteria for euro area membership as soon as possible. this structural reform support programme thus becomes part of our european plan for solidarity, cohesion and convergence across the european union. the proposed amendment to the regulation increases the financial envelope of the structural reform support programme for the period 2017-2020 to eur 222,8 million. the programme was established with the aim of strengthening the capacity of member states to prepare and implement growth-sustaining administrative and structural reforms. the support under the programme shall be provided by the commission at the request of a member state and may cover a variety of areas, such as public administration, revenue management, growth and the business environment, the labour market, education, health and social services and the financial sector. it is important to emphasise that countries have already submitted reform applications and reform projects for funding from this programme to the value of over eur 132 million, which has created a need for additional programme resources. as regards croatia, the government has submitted 17 projects and requests for assistance for reform projects since the start of the programme, with a total value of eur 2,3 million.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. mr president, i could answer mr nicholson right away, and that is if nothing else, let's keep the interreg programme which is known for financing those crossborder projects of member states and non-member states. the united kingdom and northern ireland will not be part of the european union, but the interreg programme exists and it can finance everything that we have seen in northern ireland. and what we saw was impressive. i was really impressed with what we saw, the money that came from the european union created peace. reconciliation is going on, it is clear that the communities want it, they really live together in a way, thanks to what happened with the good friday reconciliation and the good friday agreement, but also thanks to the financial resources of the european union. we must continue the peace program, but we must also expand the peace program. let's extend it to those countries where there was conflict, and that's my croatia, that's kosovo, that's bosnia and herzegovina, that's macedonia. we have reason to expand the peace programme, it has proven successful in northern ireland, we've had conflict there, we've had conflict in the balkans. let's expand it because we think we have great results and we should take advantage of that.
mr. chairman, there are many people, especially on the internet, who are subjected to harassment for their dissent, and in order to humiliate them, they are targeted for their gender or physical characteristics. such behavior is unacceptable and through education, prevention and adequate legal remedies we must work to eliminate it. on the other hand, under the influence of radical feminists, the definition of abuse and harassment has been broadened to the point that any courtship is undesirable. even some of the world's most famous feminists have spoken out on this issue. it's important to set a boundary, to know what is true for each conviction and to be legally sanctioned, and that is part of normal human communication which at a certain moment may be tiresome or boring, but at any rate, it's not abuse. if this boundary is not clear, people will be pushed further apart by bad legal regulations and judicial practice, which will have serious consequences for our societies.
written. we all know that forests are the lungs of the world, but why are we treating them so badly by cutting them down, burning them, illegally cutting them down? they contribute significantly to climate change mitigation and adaptation and to the conservation of biodiversity. they prevent land degradation and desertification and thereby reduce the risk of flooding, soil erosion and drought. they are essential for sustainable agriculture and improve food and nutrition security. it is for these and many other reasons that i voted for the report on the transparent and responsible management of natural resources in developing countries! the report calls on the eu to support the integration of forest and land management objectives into the nationally determined contributions of developing countries to the development of rich forests, and recalls that the paris agreement requires all parties to take measures to conserve and enhance forests, including forests. deforestation and destruction is not a good way to deal with this natural resource, and illegal logging and trade in timber is one of the five most important sectors of environmental crime. i strongly advocate promoting participatory and collaborative forest management by involving civil society more in the planning and implementation of forest management policies and projects, raising awareness and ensuring that local communities also benefit from forest resources.
mr. chairman, today we voted overwhelmingly by a margin of 489 votes to support an increase in the structural reform support program. as the epp shadow rapporteur, i worked very hard on this report and i am pleased that it specifically highlights the priority in allocating funds to member states outside the euro area, which we want to help achieve convergence and meet the criteria for euro area membership as soon as possible. this structural reform support programme thus becomes part of our european plan for solidarity, cohesion and convergence across the european union. the funds have increased by 80 million euros. it is still a small programme in view of the member states' high need to finance reforms, but it is important to set priorities well.
mr president, mr prime minister of hungary, ladies and gentlemen, hungary is a democratic country of legitimately elected representatives in democratic elections. it is also a country whose people know very well the price of their freedom, independence and sovereignty. we cannot help but notice how the hungarian government has stabilized national finances, has significantly reduced the unemployment rate, and is experiencing economic growth. hungary's orientation to help directly persecuted christians in the middle east, for which it has allocated eur 16.5 million in the last year and a half, shows that hungary is ready to help those who need this help most. hungary, as a full member of the european union, points out the weaknesses of some european policies and calls for their change. the european union, on the other hand, is concerned about the situation in hungary. the commission should be able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used in a manner that is consistent with the union's objectives and in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i understand the concerns of some of my colleagues, but activating article 7 is not the answer. we must seek together solutions to preserve europe's unity, not contribute to its disintegration by our actions.
written. the internet and digital technologies are changing the world. so we have a responsibility to our citizens to create better regulation. it is important to protect creative work, artists, performers, professional and quality journalism and to ensure that authors are compensated for their work. it is also important to ensure that citizens have free access to online content and the ability to share it via social media. the cultural and creative industries in europe employ more than 12 million people, representing 7,5% of the union's workforce, generate around eur 509 billion in value added to gdp, and copyright protection is the basis of their revenues. the use of a copyrighted work, without payment of remuneration, cannot be an acceptable basis for any business model. it's unacceptable for internet giants to publish someone else's work and make huge profits without paying royalties to the authors. therefore, quality legal solutions can contribute to justice in today's digital age and ensure the well-being of our citizens.
written. i want to say that i was a little disappointed by juncker's speech today. if i could sublimate my impressions, then i would compare it to last year, when everything was a little more optimistic. unlike last year's speech, this one was rather bland and didn't take the opportunity to properly round off what happened during his term in office in a sort of political testament. if we draw a line under juncker's mandate, two things become clear. he found the european union recovering from an economic, financial and social crisis. he can say that the eu has fully recovered economically since his mandate. over 20 quarters of growth in the european economy, 12.5 million jobs created since 2012, youth unemployment at record low. but it leaves the union in a political crisis. i expected juncker to be more forthcoming in his determination to address the root causes of the political crisis, but he did not. the debate on the future of the eu will have to be left to those who come.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the contributions have shown that we will have a constructive, critical discussion in the coming weeks. i am also happy to take the view of the rapporteur-general, mr viotti, who has asked me, as an austrian, to take part in a derby, where i admit that austria is unlikely to make it in football at the moment. but i 'm happy to accept the picture . my vision and hope is that we can succeed in the next few weeks in forming a joint team, a joint team from parliament, the commission and also from the council's point of view, to prepare ourselves to put the right measures into those points that we have already defined and found together in terms of content and to put the right budget for 2019 behind them. our opponents are not here in the room, our opponents are on a global scale - others who are trying to weaken europe, others who are trying to undermine and subvert this european future. so my appeal is that in all the necessary discussions we will have, we should remember that ultimately we must work together as a team to deliver for europe, for the citizens, what we need, namely to look to the future as a winner on a global scale, as a united europe. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. we have deliberately defined this proposal in a balanced way, and i make no secret of the fact that we are also taking a more dynamic approach to the council proposal in the medium and long term. but it is a responsibility we all share to be able to afford the programmes and measures we are putting in place. we also have a responsibility to the taxpayers in europe, and we take that very seriously in the council, to ensure that we deliver this budgetary framework and budget for 2019 on the basis of reasonable means. in conclusion, i would like to say once again that we have the opportunity to discuss this together, and i am prepared to enter into tough talks and to accept the conflicts. but it is important that we finally recognise, also in the proposal which parliament will be drawing up and adopting in the next few weeks on the basis of this debate, that we will go through the objective together. i am building on the constructive foundation that emerged from today's discussion and the common objectives that we will manage to show in time as a clear symbol for the citizens of europe that we parliament, commission and council are able to achieve common objectives with the 2019 budget. we owe this to the europeans. it is important, especially before the european parliament elections, to send a message to all countries that we are capable of developing something for europe together.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms ernst, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the very constructive negotiations on the proposed regulation. the final text provides the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies with a strong and coherent data protection framework aligned with the general data protection regulation, as well as, where relevant, the data protection law enforcement directive. it will ensure that everyone is protected when eu institutions and agencies process their personal data, whether it is staff of the eu institutions, visitors to our buildings or recipients of eu funding. let me briefly go through the main elements of the regulation. the final text introduces novel concepts in line with the general data protection regulation such as data protection by design and by default, the need to notify a personal data breach to the european data protection supervisor and to the data subject – the people affected by the breach – and the need for a data protection impact assessment prior to processing when this might result in a high risk for the rights and freedoms of people. the agreement modernises data subject rights, in particular by introducing the right to data portability, an explicit reference to the right to be forgotten, and the need to provide the data subject with more information. article 25, providing for the possibility to use internal rules to restrict data subject rights, strikes the right balance. while respecting the requirements of the charter of fundamental rights, it meets the operational needs of union institutions and bodies. the legal text meets the quality of law requirement as formulated by both the luxembourg and strasbourg courts. the new rules will abolish unnecessary bureaucratic requirements such as, for instance, prior checks. supervision has also been reinforced, in line with the general data protection regulation. the european data protection supervisor will now have the possibility to impose a pecuniary fine on a union institution, body, office or agency, which is an unprecedented power in eu law. finally, a word on the issue of scope, which has been the subject of many discussions. the commission welcomes the balanced result, which has been reached after intense negotiations. the commission has always called for a coherent data protection regime for all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies to avoid unnecessary fragmentation. at the same time, the specific nature of the work of law enforcement agencies needs to be recognised, and interoperability between these eu agencies and member state authorities needs to be ensured. the inclusion of eurojust under the scope of this regulation and the review clause for the europol and european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) regulations are important achievements in this regard. the commission, however, regrets the complete exclusion of missions referred to in articles 42/1, 43 and 44 of the treaty under the common security and defence policy from the scope of the regulation, as this creates a gap which will need to be filled with additional legislative instruments.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, the general data protection regulation, while imposing new obligations and restrictions on business entities, has given individuals important safeguards against the lawlessness that has unfortunately been known to prevail in this area. in view of the above, i am particularly pleased that we are discussing today the alignment of the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies to the same rules. the extension of the area of legal certainty is an objective which i wholeheartedly support at every opportunity and i also take this opportunity to thank rapporteur ernst for this report. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in the application of this regulation it is crucial to ensure that union agencies processing operational data, in particular when it comes to the investigation of criminal offences and the prosecution of offenders, are able to fulfil their mission in practice.
mr. chairman, i'll start with a statistic. this summer, i conducted a month-long survey of citizens in the republic of croatia, and listening to you here saying that we need, of course, to invest a lot of effort and money in making citizens aware that we should change our habits, i can say that 96 percent of the citizens in that survey said that they are willing to replace the products that they use today from single-use plastic with an alternative that will, of course, be much better for the environment and for all these problems that we have talked about today. so, what's the problem? the problem is at the local level because most states don't have a good infrastructure to provide citizens with exactly what we've been talking about today. so i can separate the waste. that this waste can very quickly become a secondary resource, as our vice-president of the commission said, to become a value for business. we don't have the support for our entrepreneurs and our economy to produce products that are going to be reusable, that are going to be made from alternative materials. and we can ask ourselves, are we showing citizens by our example how to actually change? when was the last time you turned down a single-use plastic bag at a store? so these are the problems that we need to talk about, that we need to change our minds about and that we need to invest in the future budget of the european union.
madam chair, every time you take antibiotics unnecessarily or fail to adhere to the prescribed dosage, you rob your children and grandchildren of the opportunity to one day be treated. a world without antibiotics means dying of pneumonia or, most commonly, a finger cut. like vaccination, people have forgotten what a great achievement of human civilization it is. the situation is serious and it's getting worse. the last new class of antibiotics was introduced in the 1980's. since then, no new drugs have been developed, and bacteria have developed resistance to each of the existing ones. maybe panic is what we need right now because the culprits behind the rise of superbugs are irresponsible farmers, patients and doctors, but also politicians who are too slow to deal with the situation. of course, there's also the problem of the level of public awareness and ignorance about the use and effectiveness of antibiotics. the inventor of penicillin, fleming, warned as early as 1945 that human ignorance and irresponsibility could jeopardize his revolutionary discovery. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this report which proposes a series of concrete measures and actions. i hope that the commission and the council will take them very seriously and will devise ways of implementing them as soon as possible. - thank you. - thank you.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the new skills and working methods that this transformation implies require member states to adapt their education systems to future, new labour market requirements, particularly in the automotive industry. the innovation and research sector needs to be fully supported both financially and in regulatory terms, with special support to smes, which are the engines of economic development in all healthy market economies. thank you very much.
mr president, research has shown that the same products, which appear to be of lower quality, are often marketed in the eastern european union countries. these range from detergents to baby food, which can often be of lower quality and less healthy. when i started working on this problem five years ago, i have to admit that it seemed unlikely that we would have such an ambitious report on the table today. the report was endorsed by the three committees and calls for a change to the unfair commercial practices directive. it also calls for the establishment of a european body to regulate the market within the existing agency. this issue is considered by citizens of a large part of the european union to be highly emotional. we feel like second-class citizens. today is the time to show that this parliament represents all citizens, that there is no east and west and that we are all one union. we're not all the same, but we're all equal.
mr. chairman, listening to the languages that dominate this chamber this morning, it is evident that a great problem is pressing upon the peoples of central and eastern europe. so the problem is clear, discrimination is there for sure. i can say that mrs. šojdrova and i organized an exhibition here in the european parliament two years ago, where we presented products from croatia, germany and the czech republic. the difference was not just in taste, but in the composition of the product. in particular, potatoes, which are the main ingredient of the chips, did not exist in the chips sold on the croatian market. that explains it all. so it's obvious that the double quality of the product affects health and no one can say that some child, a three-month-old baby, can taste this or that. so it's not about any local or regional tastes or tastes, it's about wanting equality and there was a lot of talk about wanting europe, east and west equally, but those were just words. so enough talk, we want to get down to business and ask the commission to finally change this legislation.
the author. dear chairman, this initiative is my initiative here in the european parliament and i really wanted to see it as an item on the agenda of the european parliament, but it originally comes from twitter with a message from a gentleman who has the profile @neozg. the gentleman was born in sarajevo, in a multi-ethnic environment. he lives in zagreb. i don't know him personally, but i was very impressed with his idea when he took the initiative on that social network on may 9th of this year and said that europe day should actually become a national holiday in the member states, that europe should have its own national holiday because the foundations of a united europe are being created after the second world war and all the suffering we had. i was just blown away by the idea. i told him that i had a lot of dreams about europe day becoming a holiday in all the member states and that i would really like to see all the member states have a big holiday on europe day, and not just that in moscow we have parades and celebrate victory day in a spectacular way every time. i think we should have it in this part of the european continent, not just in the far east, and i believe this initiative can be that one little mosaic in creating the desire that europe day, victory day, become a national holiday in all member countries. what i want to stress is the need to remember that 9 may is europe day, in commemoration of the declaration made by robert schuman on that day in 1950. this date is traditionally considered to mark the beginning of the construction of the european union as we know it today. on the one hand, it serves to highlight the fact that the european union is founded on the principles of the rule of law and democracy, and to remind people how the european union is changing people's lives for the better. on the other hand, europe day is an opportunity to bring citizens of different countries closer together, to overcome the growing sense of distance between citizens and the european institutions and even to counter the negative anti-eu sentiment that exists, we must be completely objective, in some parts of the european union. in this context, i would like to ask the commission the following questions: would the commission encourage member states to mark europe day as a public holiday? and if so, how can he do so? secondly, can the commission indicate what measures have already been taken to share the common values of the european union among citizens and european institutions and how 9 may would not only be a celebration of the declaration that laid the foundations of european integration, but also an opportunity to reflect on the main challenges facing us today, for example in the areas of migration, security and the economy? and thirdly, is the commission currently taking any action to promote europe day as a day to celebrate the values of the citizens of the european union? perhaps i can answer some of the questions myself, but i want to ask them institutionally because i know that in the european parliament itself we mark europe day in such a way that the doors of the european parliament are open and i participate in it every 9 may. however, i think that's not enough. it is not enough because it is closing in on our institution, instead of going with our institution among the citizens and really in moments like these and moments like these, jointly promoting european values because with all the flaws that the european union has, there is no alternative. because there are flaws, there are mistakes, there are misjudgments and wrong decisions, but there is no alternative. and that is why i am convinced that, as there are national holidays in all the member states, which we rightly celebrate in each country, as we mark the independence of our countries, the independence of our countries, i think it is an excellent moment to consider and decide together how to establish europe day as a true european holiday, a true holiday of democracy, freedom, humanity and closeness between the peoples and citizens of the european union. i therefore call on the commission to come forward with such an initiative and i call on the member states also to accept such an initiative.
the question he asked by raising his blue card. thank you, mr. elissen, for accepting my blue card. i'm not sorry that you don't support the holidays because i'm clear about your position and your disrespect for what the rule of law is in the european union. but this is an initiative of a young man from sarajevo who proposed it and i brought it to the european parliament and it is not some eu machine that wants this but an ordinary citizen who came up with this idea. but i want to ask you something: why are you so hypocritical at the end of your presentation and say that this hall is empty. you know very well what day it is, you know very well that this room is often empty precisely because people are working on committees and doing other tasks and jobs. and you, unlike me, who is often in this room, and i very, very rarely see you, you also use this platform only to muddy the european parliament, and from it you get your salary.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 765/2008 on the control of concentrations between member states and repealing regulation (ec) no 765/2008 (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p. 1). i am pleased that the commission, despite the negative signals from some member states, has recognised the potential of the hta system and that we will be voting on the new regulation in a few days' time. the benefits of closer cooperation between national and regional hta bodies will ultimately be shared by all: patients, doctors, pharmacists, health systems. the new platform will save time and money for member states and their authorities by avoiding unnecessary duplication of assessments already made by other countries. this is especially true for countries that currently have low hta capacities. if the system lives up to its intended purpose, the prices of innovative medicines and medical devices should ultimately be more affordable for patients and health systems. i believe that the european union must do everything possible within its powers to help member states facing rising health costs. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and i hope that the member states in the council will find a way to agree on a common position within a reasonable time.
written. the right to health is a fundamental right, which is not only important for personal integrity and development, but is also a key determinant of social cohesion and productivity. the eu therefore tries to maintain high health standards in the eu because health is one of the most important values for its citizens. the main objective of the proposal is to carry out a joint clinical assessment of a health technology at european level. healthcare spending in the eu accounts for 10% of gdp, or a total of €1300 billion a year, of which €220 billion is spent on pharmaceuticals and €110 billion on investments in new medical products. the proposal expresses serious concern about the increasing difficulties of european citizens in accessing adequate treatment in the eu, either due to the high cost of treatment, its unavailability or the poor quality of new products, as also highlighted by the european parliament in its own-initiative report on the eu's capacity to improve access to medicines. it sets out a number of measures that suggest that we need a global regulatory directive that achieves the necessary balance between all stakeholders and interests, that is patient-centred, that guarantees access to medicines and sustainability of health systems, and that encourages high-quality research and development.
madam president, the eu's programme for rural, mountain and remote areas must respond to the most important challenges facing such areas, such as depopulation and ageing, difficult mobility, economic stagnation, availability of public services and delayed infrastructure. although they cover 80% of the union's territory and 57% of its population, downward economic trends show that rural, mountain and remote areas now generate 46% of gross value added and have a gdp per capita of 70% of the european average. young people are attracted to the lights of large cities that can provide opportunities, standards, and excitement that rural settings often cannot. but for the union to be a functioning and sustainable community in the future, rural life must be preserved. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. if rural life is cheaper and better than it is now, we need not fear for the demographic picture of rural areas or their economic prosperity. life in the big cities is becoming more expensive and of poorer quality. if we can overcome the obvious infrastructure shortcomings of much of the union's rural areas and attract young people with lower taxes and cheaper energy, these areas will quickly come alive and gain a new perspective. the rural, mountain and remote programme shall specifically address the availability and quality of public services, as well as the opening of the market to the private sector which can act synergistically in raising the quality of life in rural areas. the challenges are great, and the time is running out because adverse demographic trends are not easy to stop. and so, i expect this program to be very ambitious and concrete.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of rural, mountain and remote areas is demonstrated by this debate, by the commission's statement and by the european parliament's recent resolutions on the subject. on the other hand, cohesion policy, or the policy of balanced development, is one of the most important european policies. but despite this, it is clear from the data presented that this policy has not actually achieved its objectives. the ratio of gross domestic product in rural, mountainous and remote areas is 70% of the european average, and in the city it is 123%. of course, this huge disparity is what drives young people to leave these areas. at the same time, these areas of age and all the problems that we encounter in society in general in our countries, these areas feel stronger than is the case with urban areas. and these reasons, the failure of that policy and the deterioration of the situation, even in recent years, speak to the need for a programme for rural, mountainous and remote areas. it cannot be said that our cohesion policies are not successful because without them the situation might be even worse than it is now, but these data definitely show that the objectives have not been achieved. the basic things that need to be done, better transport connectivity of these areas, access to clean energy and of course high-speed internet coverage, and then economic activities will develop within them - some are mentioned like rural tourism, but every other economic activity like energy production, like various services, are also coming into consideration. and the techniques how to do that are organizational, the steps are decentralization and subsidiarity. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of the european data protection supervisor. they need to be given easy access to european funds, and in some places direct access, because in some places the state, the central government, is blocking access to these areas. and if we do that, and if we link the urban programme and the rural programme as one partnership programme, then we will probably be more successful in implementing this single european cohesion policy.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is facing a general election on october 7th. since they are held according to the existing electoral law, there is again the danger of overvoting the croats as a constituent people who, unfortunately, in such a bih do not have the right to choose their political representatives themselves but are elected by the more numerous bosniaks. it is shameful that in the middle of europe, an entire nation can be dispossessed by electoral engineering, and it is especially disturbing that this is happening in bosnia and herzegovina, a country with very delicate structures and disturbed interethnic relations. sarajevo's obstruction of the change of the electoral law and its desire to silence all voices that do not agree with a unitary state under bosnian domination shows that it is not capable of resolving the political crisis. the european parliament has adopted resolutions on bosnia warning of the dangers of unitarism and separatism. if we want a stable bih, we need to support a proper electoral law and a sustainable constitutional order. this isn't it.
madam president, there are three themes that should dominate the european council. first of all, the inevitable brexit, which i think was a huge mistake, and now that we're here, i'm advocating that we solve the irish problem and make it a priority, as we've heard before. the second theme, which is very important, is the protection of external borders and internal security. when it comes to the outer limits, i'm sure the depth rule needs to be improved. parliament has had its say, the commission has had its proposal and we expect the council to finally decide on the dublin system. that would be very good. i speak now on behalf of croatia which has the longest border in the european union, the longest land border of 1350 km and the protection of the external border is extremely important to us. it's the only country outside of schengen with such a long border. and the third topic is certainly trade and we should be talking about trade agreements. after jean-claude juncker's visit to the united states, i am sure that transatlantic relations need to be improved, but i also support the eurasian summit.
mr. chairman, human rights violations by transnational corporations is one of the greatest challenges of economic globalization. the search for cheaper labour and new markets often ends up where there is no adequate regulation to protect workers and consumers. raising awareness of the importance of ethical and socially responsible business conduct is a process in which the union must be more closely involved, providing strategic support primarily to civil society. a binding un instrument would be an acceptable solution if it were accepted and consistently applied by all global economic powers. but we know that's not realistic to expect. without global implementation and an effective framework for monitoring and sanctions in case of violations, the instrument is meaningless and as such would only represent a noose around the neck of western companies.
written. the republic of yemen is one of the poorest arab states in the world, and the unrelenting war continues to unfortunately increase instability not only in the republic of yemen but also in the neighboring states of the middle east. the city of hodeidah was again hit by a series of airstrikes that killed dozens and injured many. i strongly condemn the attacks on civilians. the european union expects all parties to ensure the protection of the civilian population and to stop the exploitation of innocent children, as carriers of the future generation, and i believe that there is a need for a swift reaction of the entire international community to protect them. i call for a swift resolution of the problem of the blockade of humanitarian aid for the victims of the war. the immediate consequences of armed conflict are far-reaching and, if not addressed, pose a direct threat to the entire population. yemenis last year experienced the worst cholera outbreak in modern history, with more than a million cases (half of them children). i believe that the european union needs to act quickly as a leader of peace and dialogue.
mr president, commissioner, there are many open questions about this regulation. for example, that proposed emission reduction targets are often not accompanied by appropriate measures that could achieve those targets. what is the position of this proposal for a regulation in the whole network of european union legislation on renewable energy and emission reductions? will it be technologically possible to achieve these goals in such a short time - five or ten years? and finally, how much will it cost and how will it affect the competitiveness of the european economy? i support the compromise proposals of my alde group of 40% co2 reduction and 35% share of low and zero emission vehicles, but i think the commission proposal or the opinion of the transport committee with 30% reduction and 30% share of low and zero emission vehicles is also a step in the right direction.
mr president, this is the second green paper on this subject, but first i would like to congratulate mrs dalli on her excellent report and i would like to mention a few facts because the debate here is very interesting and i think you and the commissioner will find this information interesting. and speaking of innovation, europe was the first to invent and manufacture an electric car, and to manufacture batteries for electric cars. looking back today, we see that we are actually lagging behind our global competitors, and we will be lagging even further behind if the money that we have invested so far in innovation through horizon 2020, what we will invest through horizon europe, is also planned to be invested through other european funds. how many billions has the european union automotive industry invested so far in innovation in electric cars, and we don't see that as a result on our roads? if we talk about the alternative fuels directive, only eight member states have implemented the policy that should have been under the directive that it prescribes.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, i welcome the commissioner and all my colleagues here. the vat system, and we can all agree on this, needs to be simplified, modernized, adapted to the new digital age and help, of course, to make cross-border cooperation and trade as efficient and as simple as possible. the temporary solution for the vat system in cross-border transactions was adopted 25 years ago and is a good example of how temporary solutions become long-term. this proposal to amend the directive introduces simplifications which are also preparations for the establishment of a definitive vat system, as already highlighted by previous speakers. the commission has also found that the tax system in the member states is not sufficiently transparent and that the tax system in the member states is not sufficiently transparent. they specifically mention the extra costs they have to adapt to the different rules in each of the member states and of course we have to change that. it is with these changes that we want to simplify the system and adapt it more to the needs of the entrepreneurs themselves. the rules for the calculation of vat in the case of the movement of goods and for chain transactions are defined and harmonised, and we know that these areas were the most frequent areas of vat fraud. the concept of a certified taxable person is also introduced, but i must point out here that the commission needs to further clarify and define the criteria for determining this status in order to make it equally applicable at the level of all member states and for the states to recognise this status among themselves. it is also important to establish a one stop shop for entrepreneurs, where they will have information on changes to the vat system and update the vat rate in the member states. finally, it is important to point out that these losses due to vat and fraud are being contained by these amendments.
mr president, the rule of law in the countries that were behind the iron curtain is still extremely fragile and therefore our efforts must be directed towards protecting and strengthening democratic institutions. we must not forget that the initial position of the former communist states is not the same as that of the western democracies and that certain interventions in the judiciary are probably necessary to clear them of the relapses of the old structures that undermine it. since this is a very slippery terrain, there is always the danger that it will be used as an excuse to bring the judiciary under the control of the executive and further erode the system as, apparently, is happening not only in romania but in most post-communist countries. therefore, i believe it is necessary to recognize and strengthen the role of those individuals and social groups who can and want to raise their voices against such dysfunctional states, just as i support the struggle that a part of croatian society is currently leading against the non-prosecution of war crimes in croatia.
madam speaker, a guaranteed minimum income would solve as many problems as it would create new ones. politicians would have a harder time buying votes with social transfers if everyone got the same amount from the state. the bureaucracy would be smaller and, more importantly, less influential. workers would have a better bargaining position with employers and a certain material security that would allow them to seek the job in which they are happiest and most productive, but not necessarily the best paid. there would be less poverty, fewer unhappy workers, and people would be more devoted to their families. on the other hand, the guaranteed minimum income represents an unsustainable financial burden for the state. it would negatively affect work habits and create a labour shortage in countries that are struggling with undeclared work, which in these demographic circumstances would be catastrophic for the economy and public services that are funded by the tax on labour.
mr president, the rapporteur has done a great job and has really improved the commission's proposal and i thank her for that. the progress made on procedural safeguards is important in order to give persons whose assets have been frozen the opportunity to challenge those orders before the competent courts. while the fight against terrorism and organised crime is of paramount importance, and one of the key components of that fight is to stop the cross-border financing of illegal activities, we must not forget the presumption of innocence and, accordingly, we must create an effective and rapid framework for the judicial settlement of disputes in such cases. as a former police officer, i congratulate the rapporteur on the proposal to use confiscated property to fund compensation for the families of police officers and other public servants who have died or been seriously injured in the line of duty.
mr president, the obligation to locate data is incompatible with the idea of a digital single market, so the liberalisation proposed by the commission, and supported by the rapporteur, is the only logical move. the objective must be to offer consumers across the union better services for less money, as a direct consequence of the increased competition resulting from market liberalisation. i am pleased that the proposal also provides for the possibility of exemptions in exceptional situations or when data are needed by public authorities. i also welcome the introduction of a code of conduct on data transmission, but on the condition that the recommendations it makes are binding and that any breach of them is sanctioned.
mr president, local and regional authorities are undoubtedly the most exposed to the negative consequences of the migration crisis in the mediterranean. despite their very limited resources, they have to shoulder the burden of other people's failed policies, and they are often not consulted at all in the process of making important decisions. it is not enough to increase financial assistance to local and regional authorities, which are the first to be hit, because the migration crisis is not only a financial but also a cultural and security challenge for them. immigration and asylum policies need to change, and the key advisors in this process need to be our local stakeholders. we have no right to make decisions that significantly affect their lives away from their eyes and without their knowledge. what is also imperative to do is to address the migration crisis far from europe's shores. we need to strengthen cooperation with a number of third countries and join forces to fight smugglers and stop illegal migration in its tracks. everything else is just a cosmetic that can only delay, but not stop, new political turbulence and security challenges in the european union.
mr. chairman, i welcome this resolution which expresses our concern about the human rights situation in china. human rights should be the focus of eu-china relations. in any case, the uyghurs and kazakhs should be freed and i condemn the situation that is happening with foreign journalists. they're not allowed to report from these concentration camps. i think if it were any other country, if it were a million people being held, everybody would be worried, but when it comes to china, it's not really in focus, and so it's good that the european parliament is considering this resolution and that this is a way of expressing our dissatisfaction with the human rights situation in china. in any case, i welcome the resolution and hope it will contribute at least a little to free these poor people.
mr. chairman, drinking water as a human right does sound responsible and noble. but we need significant resources and a quality legislative framework to ensure that. the objective of this directive is to protect human health from the adverse effects of water pollution and to promote universal access to water intended for human consumption and, in this respect, it is a step in the right direction. the guarantee of universal access requires that the conditions for the distribution of quality water are met at the same time. i welcome the commitment to the principle of subsidiarity and the recognition of the competence of the member states in the application of minimum quality requirements. the proposal gives member states greater freedom but also responsibility in assessing risks to human health. it is important that all member states stick to the agreement so that europe's citizens really have a guaranteed access to quality water.
written. the employment and social policy report for the euro area reports on youth unemployment rates, which remain unacceptably high and more than double the overall average unemployment rate, with approximately one in three young people unemployed in some countries. the economic recovery remains uneven across the euro area and there is still considerable room for progress in terms of economic convergence, combating youth and long-term unemployment, gender imbalances, labour market segmentation and inequalities, especially for vulnerable groups, as well as reducing the number of people working below their skill level, reducing poverty in general and in particular in the workforce, eradicating child poverty and boosting productivity and wage growth. the report, which i voted for, notes that member states should implement reforms as supported by the commission, within the framework of country-specific recommendations, and should in particular focus on policies that increase productivity and the potential for sustainable growth in order to move the eu as a whole towards decent jobs, access to social protection, irrespective of employment or type of contract, and wage growth that significantly contribute to reducing inequality, the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and contribute to improving living standards and supporting economic recovery.
mr. chairman, worker's equity in some western countries has proven to be a quality model that gives workers extra motivation and brings them a stable income in addition to their salary. unfortunately, in countries like croatia, that model has largely failed because workers are not used to treating the company as their own property. the best example is the oil-shipyard, which is on the verge of collapse, and in which the workers have 47% of the shares. after becoming the majority owner, they did not change the way they operated the company but treated it the same as before. for this model to be successful across the european union, a change in mindset and a strengthening of judicial independence is needed in countries that have adopted market economies relatively recently. only then can we expect the uniform development of workers' participation throughout europe.
mr. chairman, i am very concerned about the outcome of the elections in bosnia and herzegovina and the possible consequences based on the initial reactions of certain elected officials in sarajevo. as a member of the european union, and as a guarantor of the dayton-paris peace agreement, croatia will continue to monitor closely the development of the situation in this country and its impact on peace and stability. encouraged by the statement of mogherini and hana on respecting the decision of the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina in the case of ljubić in the formation of the house of peoples, i believe that it is high time to pass an election law, so that bosnia and herzegovina avoids deepening the crisis. any further reckless support for actors who support the two extremes, centralization and separatism, leads to the polarization of the country. i call for a final consideration of the position of the third constituent community, which has always chosen a middle ground between the two extremes mentioned and has led the country in euro-atlantic integration. one nation has been stripped of its rights, as a result of a whole series of changes to election law over the past two decades. i believe that bosnia and herzegovina can overcome the existing problems.
mr president, the development of information technology and numerous digital services has made people more connected than ever before. it's hard to imagine doing business without the internet today, and we've moved a lot of our personal lives online too - from texting and storing family photos to buying clothes and ordering food. products and services are easily accessible, new communication channels have made us more productive, but all of this comes at the cost of compromised privacy and security. the cambridge analytica case has only confirmed the importance of protecting citizens' data online. but it's very important to avoid unnecessary hysteria and to inform citizens of what constitutes a threat to their privacy and what is benign. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. i don't think that's anyone's goal.
madam president, this is the first citizens' initiative since the lisbon treaty that has really succeeded, that has collected more than 1 800 000 signatures and that we as parliament have taken seriously. i am pleased that today parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the right to water. i believe that every citizen should have the right to quality water and i believe that these negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible, that the member states will agree and that every citizen will have the right to clean, drinking and quality water. i consider that to be the minimum standard we can afford for our european union citizens. as for croatia, we are the third country in the european union with the greatest water resources, and i am sure that my country, croatia, and its authorities will enable our citizens to have access to water, because i believe that this is first and foremost a civil right, and i agree with the united nations declaring the right to water a civil right, or a human right.
madam president, the single market is the greatest asset of european integration today. it has brought economic prosperity, greater employment opportunities, greater competitiveness, increased innovation and better and cheaper products and services to much of the european continent. i therefore support efforts to deepen it in the areas of the digital economy, energy and financial services. any form of protectionism is a path to stagnation and falling behind other global giants. i think the commission had a solid set of priorities before the brexit referendum, but afterwards it focused too much on the project of further political integration, feeling that the departure of the main brake driver of the federalist model was a good moment. the vast majority of citizens do not live off the blue flag and yellow stars, but on bread earned at the market. so we need to do even more on economic integration before the election, and remove the political issue, which has no support from the citizens, from the agenda.
mr president, we know that schengen is one of the great success stories of europe, but certainly that story needs to be upgraded so that our citizens can be at peace and can live in complete freedom and use that freedom of movement. the figures you mentioned here, and one and the other commissioner, are fascinating, about the number of entries in sis 1, in sis 2, about the number of detected cases. so the numbers are really fascinating and this sis 1 and sis 2 are certainly good, but they definitely need to be upgraded to prevent all the possible situations that happen at the borders. however, i would like to point out that the internal security of the citizens of the european union cannot be good if the external border is not secured. i would not be consistent if i did not take the opportunity today in this debate to mention croatia, which has the longest external border in the european union, of 1350 km, and which is still not a schengen border. so once again, i know we're working on it, i know we meet the criteria, but we certainly expect that, even though we're already using sis 1 and sis 2, we're finally going to access that free schengen area so that we can help to make the european union not a fortress, but to know who is on our territory, who is entering across our borders. i believe that is in the interest of all of you from the other countries of the european union.
mr president, the concept of europe as an open space without frontiers is one of the fundamental values that has brought together thousands of citizens and encouraged further integration between them. from the challenges of the 2015 migrant crisis to terrorist threats, the schengen area has become a primary security policy issue. the loss of trust in the system has raised walls where they'd been torn down for decades. the republic of croatia aims to enter the schengen area by 2019 and takes care of europe's external borders towards the western balkans and fulfils its tasks responsibly along this path. we therefore understand well the importance of continuous improvement of the system between member states, in order to avoid the gaps created during and after the migration crisis. schengen will work best if we defend europe's borders together, so that we don't close ourselves inwards. the commission has also received a number of requests for information from the croatian authorities. encouraged by this progress, i believe that croatia will achieve its strategic goal of joining the common space by 2019 and continue to protect europe from future threats.
mr president, the work and the strengthening of the schengen information system are essential, since the pressure on the union's external borders is not diminishing and with it the security threats to our citizens. the solutions presented in the reports represent an improvement on the existing practice. it is indeed astonishing that the commission has done so little to harmonise the criteria for alerts for the purpose of refusing entry to the schengen area. the proposed amendments finally correct the obvious mistakes, and i am particularly pleased that persons convicted of terrorism are also listed as undesirable. the main question is why it hasn't been done before. croatia has finally gained access to the schengen information system, which will ease its path to schengen membership. i hereby call upon all authorities to make this happen as soon as possible.
written. the growing sense of insecurity among european citizens has expectedly and justifiably shifted the priorities of the european union, which seeks to respond to the needs of the member states and their citizens. in view of such changed circumstances, i support the intention to increase the security of the external borders of the union, of which 1351 kilometres are under the jurisdiction of the republic of croatia. the adaptation of the schengen information system ii to address border control security problems more effectively together should be welcomed. however, it should be noted that security needs should not be used as an excuse to violate accepted standards of protection of human rights or personal data. the improvement of the system should in no way lead to a difficult access to the union for those legally seeking to enter and/or leave. cooperation is the foundation of the european union's success and is crucial to its security, with schengen playing an important role. the inclusion of romania, bulgaria and croatia, which have the longest external land border of the european union of all the member states, in the schengen area therefore has an important security component. in just 4 months since joining the schengen information system, croatia has carried out 75 million checks and identified over 4000 infringements. this demonstrates the importance of croatia as a partner in securing the external border of the european union and justifies its accession to schengen as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, the budget must adequately respond to the challenges we face and reflect our objectives and policies. i therefore fully support the position we have expressed in parliament on support for competitiveness-related programmes. so we cannot slow down the promotion of new technologies, innovation, research and development and we cannot agree to the commission and council proposal. also, investing in youth, in the youth employment initiative, we need to accelerate. the rural areas are particularly highlighted in our proposal. they're threatened by depopulation, by extinction, and that's what we have to fight. our proposal from the european parliament really tries to touch on all those key issues that are troubling people in the european union and i hope that the council in its dialogue with us will recognise this and that the funding for these programmes will be increased, especially, of course, migration and security. nor can we reduce the number of countries in the region, especially the non-member countries in south-eastern europe, which we must encourage to change more quickly by increasing the ipa.
mr president, i supported, of course, this proposal from the european commission, because i think it is very good for the protection of our planet, above all our sea. i think it's a great proposal for single-use plastics, but of course we need to find alternative ways of manufacturing to replace these products that we're talking about here. i would not like europe to become a symbol for banning infant balloons, for blowing up balloons, but at the same time i am sure that europe must lead the fight. the impossible fact is that three quarters of the waste in the sea is plastic, and the even worse fact is that by 2050, if we continue at this rate, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea, which we can't allow. it is particularly important to me because i come from the adriatic sea, which we share with your italy, and i am sure that we must protect it, that we must preserve it, and who else but us in the union, and i hope that the member states will follow this directive and implement all these measures that we are proposing today.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon is not adapted to the political reality of the european union. we know how it came about and that it is a minimally corrected european constitution that the peoples of europe rejected. the treaty, as such, is the practical framework for a european federation that does not exist and has created a legal and political vacuum in which the institutions of the union are competing with each other for power and influence. this is felt before each election, but also afterwards, when the commission meets and agrees on its priorities. the competition for power between the eu institutions has at times paralysed the union. that can't be good. we need a clear framework, simpler and more efficient, but to agree on it, we must first agree on the direction of the european union. since many in this house are advocating further political integration and, consequently, european federation, and there are more and more of us who are resolutely opposed to this, i doubt that we will reach a consensus any time soon.
written. the european union is founded on the idea that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizens, while respecting the national sovereignty of its member states. the limits of the union's competence are determined by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. everything that can be achieved at the central level of a national state, its regional or local level, should be achieved there, as stipulated in the treaties, and the institutions of the european union must ensure that this is respected. unfortunately, we have recently witnessed numerous examples of fundamental principles being violated, the union's competence being exceeded and national sovereignty being infringed. in addition to seeking to trigger article 7 against some member states without any valid arguments, parliament has in many of its resolutions and reports interfered in areas of exclusive competence of the member states - such as the health or education systems. such action is detrimental to the viability of the union, as it is in breach of the treaty and does not respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
mr president, i thank the court of auditors for a well-prepared report, very detailed and comprehensive, and i am pleased that the court of auditors is increasingly focusing on the audit of the results achieved, because the key question is whether our citizens, our farmers, entrepreneurs and young people benefit from the investment or whether it is better to change, if necessary, cancel or replace certain programmes with other programmes that will better and more closely meet their needs. you mentioned that management and control systems are improving. there are fewer irregularities. we're all very happy about that, but it's important to speed up the system, as my colleagues have also pointed out, to make it more useful and functional. you can do a lot to help improve the system with your reports, not only through the lawful, efficient and effective use of funds, but also, and i stress this in particular, the timely use of eu money. you can, for example, help us use technical assistance in various programmes to build administrative capacity in areas where audits are clearly lacking the knowledge needed to spend public money wisely, purposefully and in a timely manner. that's why i'm so pleased with your thematic reports and your new approach to the work.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, the purpose of the medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices regulation is to give european patients access to safe and effective devices and to restore confidence in european manufacturing after the scandal of artificial hips and breast implants. the commission published the initial proposal back in 2012, and trials were completed in 2016. the regulations entered into force in 2017, with a transition period of three years for medical devices and five years for in vitro diagnostic devices. ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that these new rules have been in the works for six years. today we are discussing the problems in implementing the new rules, because it may happen that by the time the system is ready to be implemented, the supply of medical devices may be interrupted. the biggest problem is the adaptation of the designated bodies, on which the whole system of placing devices on the market is based. those bodies shall assess the conformity of medical and in vitro devices with the specifications and regulations before they are placed on the market and put into service. the process of ratifying them is much slower than it should be, according to data from may of this year, of the 59 existing designated bodies, only 30 have started the recertification process, which takes 18 months. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the situation is of course further complicated by brexit, as a significant number of certifications for the eu market are carried out in the uk. however, this is not the only problem - the commission has published only a few of the 18 implementing acts needed at the time of writing this oral question. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the eudamed system. commissioner, i was pleased to hear your optimistic announcements today and i sincerely hope that all that you have said will be implemented, but you also understand our concern. i have to say, i'm not inclined to reopen the regulatory process to extend the deadlines and the transition period. we should bear in mind that work on these laws started as far back as 2012, and that parliament has already agreed to the extension of the deadlines by means of trialogue. our citizens deserve the highest quality of service and that is why it is very difficult to explain why this is taking so long and i hope that everything that has been said by the commission today will be put into practice.
madam president, i said at the end of my speech that i was not in favour of reopening the regulations. unfortunately, it's translated backwards. later, my colleague meissner turned around to support me. however, we have a completely opposite viewpoint.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to support your statement from the outset, as it is reasonable, logical and aimed at preserving our industrial competitiveness. i also want to share with you some thoughts. because i am convinced that the world as it was, or as we knew it 10, 15, or 20 years ago, is definitely changing. we have a situation today in north america where someone is shouting america first. we have a situation where in the east china is grabbing ever stronger and stronger and there is no dilemma that the world has changed, and that we in the european union are still, in some way, playing by some old rules or want to, in some way, create a world in which there is more justice, fairness, equality, competitiveness and democracy. however, we see from both the left and the right, from both western and eastern europe, that things are changing and that's not quite the case. i want to express my concern and share with you a reflection on where we, as the european commission and the european parliament, should also make our alternative to what we have always advocated. and so i say, and i've said to you once here, if this one says america first, let's start thinking about whether we should also maybe europe first, because we have to protect our jobs, we are responsible to our citizens and fellow citizens, and if we continue with this, i come from a liberal, as you, but if we continue with an exaggerated liberal policy where there will be no help to industries, where there will not be too much social sensitivity, i think it will not be good. then the populists in europe will really find space to attack our well-intentioned policies. so i think it's very important that we talk about this openly and see how globalization can help us at this point, but it can also hurt us. i cannot, of course, mention what is close to my heart and what you know is close to my heart, and that is the shipbuilding industry, which has practically disappeared in many countries of the european union. there is a chance that it will happen, perhaps, unfortunately, in my country, croatia. because of the weaknesses of the shipbuilding industry in croatia, but i want to draw attention to one fact that happened in the european parliament. we had a conference together with sea europe and many other shipyards in europe from different countries and they are all concerned. but, commissioner, everyone is concerned that in ten years' time we will lose the shipbuilding industry in europe if we don't change something. you know the leadership program, you know the various programs, and i ask you to take this situation very seriously because without the shipbuilding industry we know that we are losing many, many indirect jobs.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. madam president, by adopting the energy package, the european union will continue to build its future on the basis of sustainability, environmental care, climate change adaptation and sustainable resource management. the european union also ensures that citizens' money is not wasted on importing energy if we can use that money at home, for example to create new jobs in the bio-economy or energy efficiency. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. we, in the agri committee, have been dealing mostly with biofuels and biomass. the commission will continue to support the development of the transport sector through the development of the transport sector as a whole, including the development of the transport sector in the union. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environment protection. i thank all my colleagues on the agri committee for their support.
madam chair, it is my pleasure to adopt this clean energy package after successful negotiations. it forms a whole with the clean mobility package and, together with the basic, umbrella regulations and co2 regulations, it forms a complex and interconnected network of laws, regulations and directives. the question that is being asked is - have we hit the right scale, are these laws achievable, are they ambitious enough or are they perhaps too ambitious? equally, the question is whether the objectives and measures contained in these many directives and regulations are interrelated and will they work together properly. it is therefore important to develop mechanisms to monitor the implementation of these laws so that we can have the right conditions for their revision as provided for in all of them.
madam chair, most of the globe is not blessed with the prosperity enjoyed by western civilization. the reasons for this vary, but it is an undeniable fact. in order to allow the rest of the world to develop freely, which requires energy, without endangering the planet on which we live, we need to increase energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy sources. energy has always been a crucial weapon in geopolitical settlements, and europe urgently needs energy independence. reduced consumption and sustainable production of clean energy play an important role here. i support ambitious plans in this direction, but i stress that we must be careful that political ambition does not threaten industry and cause economic stagnation and job losses. it would also weaken our global position and undo all the good we've done in the energy field.
rapporteur. madam president, human prosperity is closely linked to our relationship with nature. despite technological advances that have dramatically improved the quality of life in most parts of the planet, man cannot fully enjoy his existence without nature and its resources. our place at the top of the food chain comes with certain responsibilities. one of them is the rational management of natural resources, and this is a task that we, as europeans and as humans, have often been under-achieving. the protection of fish stocks is high on the list of priorities for both sides in this debate and that is what i am particularly pleased about. our primary motive is the same and we are looking toward the same goal, but the path we want to take to get there is somewhat different. the need to adopt a multiannual plan for the management of small blue fish in the adriatic is not in dispute, but we must resist seemingly simple solutions that would ruin the fishing industry. the commission considers that pelagic stocks in the adriatic can best be protected by quotas, something which is not shared by fishermen and trade associations from the countries bordering the adriatic, their governments, the european social and economic council, medac, the majority in the european parliament's committee on fisheries and myself as rapporteur. the commission's position is a disregard for the good results of existing practices recommended by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean and a harmful manipulation of the fate of hundreds of thousands of people. the commission claims that stakeholders were consulted in the preparation of the proposal, but it is not clear which stakeholders they are, as i have already said, both the political and professional sectors in the countries concerned by this plan are strongly opposed to the commission's proposal. the consultation procedure was clearly flawed or its conclusions were ultimately ignored. it seems that the commission itself has realised that its ideas have few allies - not among fishermen, not among scientists, not among the member states bordering the adriatic, not even in this house - and has put the so-called 'escapement strategy' on the back burner. i am absolutely in favour of considering all the alternatives to the commission's original harmful proposal to introduce drastic quotas which would destroy the fisheries sector in the adriatic and later the whole of the mediterranean and boost the economies of third countries to the detriment of the member states of the union. the conclusion of the experts is that the effects of the escapement strategy cannot yet be predicted precisely and that we should therefore leave the discussion of it for the future, when scientific research will be able to give us more concrete information. we are not putting a multiannual plan for the management of the small blue fish in the adriatic in five or ten years' time, but now. it must be based on practices that have been proven to work, not on someone's wishes or political ambitions. the overall adriatic area is currently governed by the gfcm management plan, which regulates fishing effort and capacity through spatiotemporal regulation and limitation of fishing days per vessel. in croatia, italy and slovenia, countries which have consistently followed the gfcm recommendations, they are already producing tangible results and there is no reason to break the continuity of the protection of the fishery by new measures of a totally different nature. the annual reduction of catches of 4% for each member state, with 2014 as the reference year, that i propose in this report is a reasonable measure in line with the gfcm recommendations and represents a continuation of proven effective efforts. the commission has unfortunately once again shown that it is not aware of the regional differences between the north and the south of europe. quotas from the north can't work in the south. the introduction of quotas in the adriatic, and then throughout the mediterranean, affects not only the fishing fleet but also the processing industry and the tuna farms that depend on the little blue fish. to survive, the processing industry and tuna farmers will have to import fish from third countries. this means that the european union is legislating to destroy the economies of its own members and to strengthen the economic and political position of others. it is not the first time that the commission has used bad policy to harm the interests of the member states and the citizens of the union who want to make a living from their work, but parliament should not play along with this game.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you that i was rapporteur for the european union's macro-strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea, where fisheries is one of the pillars of that macro-strategy. the blue growth. what kind of blue growth will we have if we start to introduce the kind of policy that the commission is proposing? i want to be absolutely clear: we have here an almost historic agreement between croatian, italian and slovenian fishermen. i don't remember when that happened on any topic. this just happened. i ask you, commissioners, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take this fact into account and to go in the direction of those who live off fish. well, i guess they're thinking a little more about their future than i sometimes hear from some of the soul-searching attitudes here. i understand some of the arguments, but i don't understand why we would go against those who are currently living off the fishing in the adriatic.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their interventions and valuable views. i would like to turn straightaway to some of the specific points raised by honourable members this evening. let me remind you that, according to the common fisheries policy (cfp), conservation measures have to be based on best scientific advice. this does not mean that we can base our management proposal on individual scientific opinions. it means that we should use scientific advice that has been validated by the competent scientific bodies, such as the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) or the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) scientific advisory council on the basis of a thorough review process. such scientific advice cannot simply be dismissed because the outcome is disliked. let me comment on the escapement strategy. the maximum sustainable yield (msy) biomass escapement strategy is a model already used by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) to manage nine short—lived species, for instance, in the north sea, the bering sea or the bay of biscay, and it has been very successful, for instance for anchovy in the bay of biscay. for highly valuable stocks like adriatic sardine and anchovy, the escapement strategy allows fishing a higher fraction when the stock biomass is high and a smaller fraction when the stock is low, but always maintaining a high probability of sufficient biomass. in the long term, it should ensure higher catches while maintaining a low risk for the stock. stecf considers that the escapement procedure could be an appropriate tool to manage small pelagics in the adriatic and to achieve the msy objectives. with regard to the socio—economic situation: the socio—economic situation of the fisheries sector is closely linked to the stock situation. healthy fish go hand in hand with healthy profits. this can clearly be seen in sea basins where we have moved to fmsy and profitability has increased. this means that if we do not act or if our action is not ambitious enough, notably when we have a stock close to collapse, the socio—economic cost risks being very high. with regard to the emergency measures, given the management void for adriatic small pelagics in 2019 and given the delay with this proposal for the multiannual plan, we proposed transitional emergency measures in the gfcm annual meeting in october. these measures establish an increased number of spatial temporal closures and a catch reduction of 5% per year until 2021. these measures will apply to the eu fleets and will be transposed in the tac and quota regulation of the next three years. someone asked why we are moving away from existing measures. evaluations of the existing management framework have concluded that it is ineffective and insufficient to ensure the stocks will be fished sustainably by 2020. stecf has advised that managers consider using catch or landing restrictions as a more effective management tool for small pelagic. for example, even if effort is reduced by 20%, this does not necessarily translate into a 20% reduction in catches or fishing mortality. if a vessel comes across a school of small pelagic fish, it can take a large quantity in a short amount of time. reducing catches, on the other hand, translates directly into an equivalent reduction of fishing mortality. i would like to make three other comments: first of all, that quotas in the mediterranean do not work; i totally disagree with this. quotas in the mediterranean have worked. the only stock in the mediterranean which managed to recover was tuna, and tuna was recovered with a quota management plan set by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). another argument is that fishermen in the south should not be expected to do the same as those in the north. why? what is the difference? the difference is compliance and the difference in the result is very significant. we have fishermen in the north – in the baltic and in the north sea, on the atlantic – complying and their stocks have improved. their profitability has improved. quotas and management have given the result. ten years ago, we had nine stocks at msy. today, thanks to management by quota, we have 54 stocks at msy. this cannot be said of the mediterranean, where we have 90% stock still being overfished, and where we have stocks still deteriorating and we will have almost non—existent profitability. finally, my last comment concerns the suggestion that i should be ashamed and that i am escaping responsibility. i do not think this is fair. i am not ashamed because i am acting in the long—term interest of the fishermen and in the long—term interest of the stocks. i would be escaping responsibility if i were ignoring scientific advice and if i were supporting overfishing. in the mediterranean it was always said that quotas, rules and regulations do not apply. why? because in the mediterranean the member states are not alone. we have north african countries with us. so rules and quotas only apply to eu member states, but not to north african countries. again, this is far from the truth. here we have two stocks which are dwindling. they only concern three of our member states and still they do not want to manage. why? because they want to be different from the fishermen in the north. finally, let me finally remind everyone that all member countries in the mediterranean signed the medfish4ever declaration in malta to start better protecting our mediterranean fish stocks. may i ask if it’s going to be our own member states who run away from this commitment. i hope that tomorrow this house will adopt a report which will set the adriatic multiannual plan on a course very much in line with the cfp and with other multiannual plans (maps).
rapporteur. madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution, as well as the other colleagues from the committee on fisheries and all those who took part in this debate. a big thank you also goes to the fishermen, their associations and the public institutions of the adriatic member states whose experiences, data and suggestions were key to the preparation of this report. so i was in my backyard. one-size-fits-all solutions cannot deliver the expected results, and i am therefore pleased that the report has taken into account the various proposals of all relevant stakeholders. the best solutions, which have almost unanimous support from fishermen and the professions, have found their way into the report and it is now up to us to give them political support. the commission's proposals, which are clearly leading to the weakening of our fishing industry, the loss of jobs, the economic strengthening of third countries at the expense of the member states of the union and the discrimination against adriatic fishermen in the medium term in relation to the rest of the mediterranean, are unacceptable. the citizens elected us to protect their interests, not someone else's. i am confident that this report will receive the support of parliament because it is based on solutions in line with the gfcm recommendations which are already working. the introduction of quotas is opposed by fishermen, professionals, scientists and the governments of the member states that have access to the adriatic sea. i think that the commission has taken a rather rigid position here, but i also believe that there is room for a change in that position after parliament has adopted this report. and, mr. commissioner, you're comparing this to tuna fish. these have nothing to do with each other. you know, when it comes to tuna, quotas weren't the only thing that restored tuna. also, when the quotas went up, we couldn't get back all those jobs, all those boats that the fishermen lost. so we're not in a hurry, we're taking it slow, we have to protect the fishery, but we also have to protect the fishermen, especially those who live on the island and the coast.
respected chairman, minorities who are well integrated into society are his great wealth. i agree that in the european union, as a single area of human and economic freedom, we need uniform minimum standards for minorities. the biggest challenge is finding a good measure to recognize minority specialness because there's a thin line between it and segregation. the identity politics that we see in many western countries is very similar to racism. blood counting in the west was not done to the extent it is done today for a long time, due to often unreasonable affirmative action policies. i'm afraid all these supposedly progressive policies are taking us backwards. the specificity of minorities should be recognised and nurtured, but not to the extent that it prevents the integration of minorities and the functioning of society.
written. digitalisation is the key to sustainable development today and affects all segments of people's lives. it is necessary to bridge the technological divides that lead to social inequalities and to provide broad-based internet access so that all people are equally informed and can communicate with each other. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. including new people in decision-making and information sharing will help the development and progress of the world. the european consensus on development, which clearly defines the commitment and states that the eu and the member states will continue to support information and communication technologies in developing countries as enablers for inclusive growth and sustainable development, and will work to facilitate the uptake of digital solutions and promote the use of digital technologies in a number of priority areas, is one solution to bridge the digital divide. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services in the member states and in third countries, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the union's digital services policy. the aim is to create an energy network, reduce taxes on digital products and services and promote competition, alongside better infrastructure and improved internet access. i think that digitization will go a long way in solving the problems of global poverty and social inequality.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the deve committee. madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleagues on a well-prepared report containing proposals and further steps to create a new multiannual financial framework, which will take account of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027 must reflect the union's priorities and propose mechanisms to make the mobilisation of available funds as effective as possible in the event of escalating crises. the current multiannual framework has proven inflexible and ineffective in responding to crises, as was best seen in the case of the migration crisis that has engulfed the european union. the commission's proposal to increase the funding for the ipu to help candidate and potential candidate countries to improve the rule of law, economic well-being and the functioning of institutions was also expected, taking into account the union's priorities, including the western balkans, and the enlargement strategy announced earlier this year. it would help to meet the priorities and the strategy. since this has not happened, i welcome the rapporteur's efforts to increase these funds so that the union's priorities can indeed be met in a timely manner with sufficient funds. given the above, i'll support the report.
mr president, the multiannual financial framework is a clear indication of what we want to achieve in the european union. one of the main objectives is to reduce the disparities between the level of development and the level of underdevelopment of the member states and to achieve the best possible living conditions for all citizens in the european union. the european commission's proposal therefore contains a real paradox: on the one hand, there is a significant increase in competitiveness programmes, which benefit the most developed and competitive member states, while the cohesion policy is being reduced by as much as 11% and the agriculture and rural development fund by as much as 28%, while everyone is saying that the countryside is disappearing and that we need to find ways to bring it back to life. so this position of the european parliament is very clear, we don't want any reduction in these two policies because our goal is the uniform development of all parts of the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have to tell you that while working on this report, i’ve never seen a commission working so unethically with a chosen few meps. what really saddens me is that the commission, together with the chosen ones, used manipulation and misleading facts that would make this report – the way they proposed – look good but, unfortunately, on paper only. if the commission’s plan is an example for the rest of the mediterranean and they lobby for it the way they lobbied for this report, then i don’t know why we all are here. may i remind you that all the stakeholders are on my side, and i don’t know about you, but i am here to protect the interests of the people and not the commission.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to say that i have supported this report by the rapporteur and all those who have worked on this subject in the committee on fisheries. this issue is very important for the adriatic, especially for my country, croatia. i believe that this regulation, this directive, will regulate the relations in the small blue fisheries in a significant way. the catch of small blue fish is very important and the tuna catch in the republic of croatia depends on it, and it is a big part of our fisheries. if we had adopted the biomass escapement strategy, we would have lost about 10 000 jobs, which is not an appropriate solution at this point. in any event, this regulation also has a socioeconomic significance. it's important to keep the skills that our people have in the rural and coastal areas. these skills are passed on from generation to generation and it is very important to have this intangible value, which exists along the adriatic coast, and i therefore wholeheartedly supported this regulation.
mr president, at a time of deteriorating global security conditions, when our main transatlantic ally is also calling into question the multilateral system of security and cooperation, it is becoming increasingly important to strengthen the european union's global role. the european union is the second largest arms exporter in the world, but the only one with a legally binding framework for strengthening export control systems. so let's not hesitate to ask for a greater level of transparency where the guns end up. i welcome the rapporteur's view that strengthening the competitiveness of the european defence industry must not be to the detriment of the consistent application of the eight criteria of the common position. the high percentage of approved export licences to saudi arabia, which openly violates human rights in yemen, and the quantities of european arms used in conflicts in the middle east are disappointing. as a community of peaceful states, we must demand the establishment of a single supervisory body and the introduction of independent checks and sanctions against those who do not adhere to the position. it is about the credibility of the european project whose most recognisable hallmarks are peace and cooperation.
mr. chairman, in the history of mankind, we have had all kinds of mass migrations, from peaceful settlement of uninhabited areas, to planned colonization to bloody conquest campaigns. what distinguishes today from the past is the existence of a strictly defined international order and rules that cannot be broken, and the current waves of migration in europe and america are openly violating them. to be more successful in tackling illegal migration, it is clear that we need a new global framework for legal migration, one that is ideologically free, operational and widely accepted. the un global compact on migration is not just rejected by the united states and a growing number of eu members. in drafting documents like this, we need to stick to what we all agree on, not push a divisive political agenda. without unanimous support, this and similar agreements are truly meaningless.
the european union has a duty to protect the rights of persons who are at risk of persecution or serious harm in their home countries. in addition, in the context of mass migration and attempted crossings of the european union's borders, it is necessary to ensure the safe and faster entry of persons who can actually prove their claims. the introduction of a humanitarian visa could be an appropriate solution, provided, of course, that entry is granted solely for the purpose of applying for international protection in the issuing state. however, i am of the opinion that the financial burden resulting from such proceedings should be borne exclusively by the issuing state and not by the union budget. i am against the harmonisation of european union law because i believe that the issue of migration and visas should be the primary competence of the individual member states of the union, since each of them knows best its own specific conditions and possibilities at any given moment.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, updating the eu’s telecom rules is an essential step in building the digital single market. for that, two pieces of legislation will be vital: the european electronic communications code and the regulation on berec (the body of european regulators for electronic communications). together, they create the legal conditions that will allow us to meet europe’s growing connectivity needs and to boost its competitiveness. we have succeeded in providing a legal environment for european telecoms that is both investment-friendly and pro-competitive. this is something very much to be welcomed. we should not underestimate the significance of this achievement. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, pilar del castillo vera, dita charanzová and evžen tošenovský, for their impressive work. the code will lay the groundwork for developing 5g across europe. it will make sure that 5g radio spectrum is available in the eu by the end of 2020 and will give operators predictability for spectrum licensing for at least 20 years. that includes better coordination of planned radio spectrum assignments and specific rules regarding radio spectrum fees. rolling out new, very high-capacity networks is crucial for putting europe at the forefront of digital innovation. the code’s new provisions, including those on core investments, offer strong incentives for deploying these new networks. the new rules ensure close cooperation between the commission and berec on supervising measures related to the new access provisions. europeans expect an internet connection that is fast, reliable, affordable and safe. the code will allow that expectation to become a reality. consumers will benefit from advanced services and from better online protection. it harmonises end-user protection of electronic communications in the eu, whether in relation to bundled services, switching providers or stronger security against hacking. we have extended the end-user protection obligations to web-based services where that makes sense. two more important things are to be welcomed: firstly, that the universal service will guarantee that everyone can afford access to an adequate broadband internet service; and secondly, that end-users with disabilities are guaranteed equivalent access to communications. we have also strengthened people’s protection in emergency situations, including through the retrieval of more accurate caller location. the forthcoming vote will be a significant step for the digital single market and for europe.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, the telecommunications services market is changing rapidly. new products and services and changing consumer habits require adaptation of the existing legal framework. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament and the council with information on the implementation of the union's external borders and on the implementation of the union's external borders. telecoms within national borders have long been a powerful oligopoly, which has slowed down the development of services in some member states and put consumers in an unenviable position. i therefore believe that one of our priorities must be to create a single market for telecommunications services in which competition is more intense and services to end users are better and cheaper. as this process progresses, i see the logic of establishing a european telecommunications agency to oversee the single market for telecommunications services. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. of course we have to, of course we have to guarantee security so that people in rural areas can stay in their homes. we need to provide them with all the infrastructure they need, but we're not going to do that until we stop politicizing everything we touch.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's carbon dioxide emission reduction programme is a good one. for example, will technological development make it possible to achieve the goals set? will we be able to stop the import of heavy commercial vehicles from foreign markets? are the penalties for failure to meet targets well targeted given that we have two radical proposals here in the plenary, of €5 000 and €1 000? will we be able to develop the techniques for measuring and monitoring emissions and will we have enough data for a review, an early review, in just a few years to make that review of this regulation of sufficient quality? but despite all the questions raised, i support the adoption of this regulation because if we did not do so, then co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles could reach almost 10% of total co2 emissions.
mr. chairman, the development of information technology has made it easier than ever for foreign actors to interfere in our democratic process and shape the outcome of elections according to their own desires and interests. of course, we can't let them do that. while we must take precautionary measures to protect ourselves, i cannot help feeling that this issue is being exaggerated. russian interference in the us election has yet to be substantiated to any great extent, although the investigation has been ongoing for nearly two years. russia has failed to manipulate even a public debate on nato membership in one montenegro, so i don't see how it could have a decisive impact on the european elections. it's okay to be cautious, but let's leave the witch-hunt to it. it seems that this story of foreign interference is being deliberately constructed as a justification for the rise of eurosceptics in the next elections, and therefore those who are leading the union in the wrong direction are primarily to blame, not russia.
mr president, commissioners, thank you for following this debate and for fighting against the undermining of the european project. this debate has come at the right time, in the wake of the european elections, and i think we should pay attention to it. of course, as we see, there are two ways to undermine elections. one way is campaign finance, donations, non-transparent donations and buying interest, or more accurately, pressure on citizens and voters. the other way, as we see, is disinformation through social media. social networks, facebook and twitter, are particularly powerful. especially powerful are the fake profiles used by those who want to undermine this project and who want to undermine this democratic election. we must resist it at all costs. also, the manipulation is obvious to the citizens. in 18 member countries there has clearly been, not to mention the countries already mentioned, undermining. so what we need to do is definitely strengthen independent journalism. it's very important to us. we also must not compromise these democratic, fair elections, but in the end i still want to believe that our citizens are educated enough and aware enough not to succumb to base passions and to distinguish what is democratic and what is transparent from what is fake, and fake news has really become a great danger today.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the parliament and the rapporteur, sirpa pietikäinen, for the work done on this dossier, which highlights some key elements and issues to tackle with regard to care services. the commission shares the parliament’s position that such services are crucial for gender equality, in particular to allow women’s equal participation in the labour market and for women’s empowerment and the work-life balance of working parents and carers. this was also part of the work-life balance legislative proposal and the action plan to tackle the gender pay gap of november 2017. ensuring that women and men can combine work with care duties is a key element to close the gender employment gap. two sides of the same coin are important: having working arrangements that allow workers to combine it with care responsibilities and having access to affordable and high—quality care services for children and other dependents. this will help tackle the gender pay gap, as was highlighted at the equal pay day just a few weeks ago. having access to care services and working arrangements adapted to one’s care needs are determinant for women to achieve their full employment potential. in addition, the value of women’s work and equal pay for work of equal value are crucial. indeed, women often carry out care work. it is therefore important to reflect upon the effectiveness of the implementation of the current equal pay provisions, for which i intend to launch an open consultation over the next couple of weeks. the work-life balance proposal is also important in this context. it will offer choices for working parents and is closely linked to affordable childcare facilities. we are making good progress in the trilogues and i hope that we will be able to finalise them before the end of the year. with regard to childcare, the commission adopted a report on the barcelona objectives on 8 may this year. while the overall targets for childcare have been reached on average for the eu, less than half of the member states have met these targets. in order to meet the targets, childcare should not only be available, but also be affordable and of high quality. this is essential for the social inclusion of children from a disadvantaged background, in order for them to have a good educational start in life. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on affordable and high-quality early childhood education and care systems, including a quality framework based on principles of availability, affordability, inclusion, a good educational programme, professionalisation and good working conditions for educational staff, good governance and monitoring. overall, i would like to recall that these issues are monitored in the european semester process and are reflected in many national reports. funding through the european structural and investment funds should be prioritised, particularly for those countries lagging behind. i look forward to this debate today.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, gender equality is something we absolutely must strive for, but it must be equality in the opportunities, not in the outcomes. women must have the same opportunity as men to achieve in various areas of life, and whether they do so is their own business. i can't shake the impression that feminists have a pre-planned life for all women, and those who want to live differently for them are either slaves or simply insane. so much for the diversity they talk about a lot. measuring inequality at the level of outcomes is completely wrong because it doesn't take into account different biologically defined affinities and roles. the mother is the mother, and the father is the father and they have different roles in the child's life that then shape some other life choices. it's only natural. our job is to provide both women and men with the ability to choose, not to impose our vision of their relationships on them.
written. when it comes to balancing family and work life, it is crucial that women, as they are the ones who 'carry the burden' of care on their backs, but equally so men, have access to quality and affordable public and private care services to which they can entrust their children or sick or elderly family members. so it's important to invest in creating the right infrastructure, it's important to invest in education in the area of care. on the other hand, it is necessary to recognise the value of the work of carers and to value it as such, and to ensure that carers enjoy all the rights arising from their employment relationship. it is also necessary to address the issue of the status of informal carers - people who decide to take care of their family members themselves, of whom 80% are in the european union. we need to have an understanding of situations where helping a family member and that family member becomes a full-time job. it is not an easy job, on the contrary, it requires complete devotion and dedication to the other person. it is indeed a full-time job that as such must be recognised, regulated and valued.
mr. chairman, i am pleased that this matter has been brought up because, indeed, lyme disease is a major health threat. as we know, the symptoms are sometimes detected very late and the problem is with the diagnostics. we have to do everything, as mrs jourová said, to work on researching this disease, not just the disease but the vaccine. we heard there's no vaccine, and that's the basic problem. we've heard that there are different practices in different countries, so we need to standardize treatment practices. i think it's imperative that we find a vaccine. you mentioned the horizon study, i think that's the way to go, but of course it's not too much to mention here the climate change that has caused, that has caused, that there are more and more carriers, that there are ticks and that there are really problems on large agricultural areas and forests. so we have to do everything we can to protect our citizens, our patients, but also to make it easier for general practitioners to diagnose and, if we can, find a vaccine.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have listened with great interest to the views during this discussion, and i am grateful for all your valuable insights and interest to address the burden of lyme disease in europe. allow me to repeat that the emphasis now should be on implementation and concrete action to support member states in their efforts. with the recent inclusion of lyme neuroborreliosis in the list of eu notifiable diseases, we will strengthen surveillance across the eu using a common eu case definition and diagnostic criteria. this will lead to a more accurate assessment of the disease burden and trends of lyme disease in europe. we will continue to raise awareness at eu, national and community levels, among both the public and health professionals. here, the european centre for disease prevention and control has a key role to play. finally, the development of new and better diagnostics and vaccines will be further supported through the framework programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020 and through other available instruments. i once again thank you for your interest in this issue and look forward to working closely together towards achieving strengthened surveillance, earlier diagnosis and, ultimately, prevention of this disease. (applause)
written. lyme disease is a bacterial disease caused by the bacterium borrelia burgdoferi and transmitted to humans by the bite of ticks that are also contaminated with the bacterium. lyme disease is an infectious disease of humans and some domestic and wild animals transmitted by ticks. in europe, there are about 650 000 850 000 estimated cases, with a geographically higher prevalence in central europe. the infection occurs in the spring and summer (april to october) period and therefore is recognised as an occupational disease of farmers, forestry workers and field researchers in the countries where it is present. the eu is concerned about the alarming rates of lyme disease in the european population, given that the calculation methods used have shown that around 1 million citizens suffer from this disease. the union has so far allocated large research funds for the early detection and future treatment of lyme disease (up to eur 16 million through projects such as antidote, id-lyme and lymediadex). it is of the utmost importance to continue to work on the underlying mechanism that converts lyme disease into a chronic disease and therefore this report calls for mandatory reporting in all member states affected by lyme disease.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, ms jourová, i would like to express on behalf of the alde group the concern we all have here in this parliament for the work of jugendamt. it is clear that many of the representations recorded clearly point to irregularities in the work, i.e. to discrimination, which is certainly the last thing we want in the european union. discriminate against our citizens, and even more so against children. it's really the worst thing that can happen to us. we can rightly ask ourselves what kind of union we really want. do we want a union in which free trade is the main thing or do we want a union in which citizens really feel safe and a union in which we work for those same citizens who then need to feel safe and well? of course, we have to start with the best interests of the child. this is the starting point for all our thinking and that is why i expect you, the commission, to do everything possible to ensure that the council harmonizes the legislative infrastructure of the european union and that children and parents are not discriminated against.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the committee on petitions and ms wikström for launching this initiative in the european parliament's plenary session. according to the numerous representations that have come in over the last decade, even if we don't have a case law on the negativity of the work of the german child welfare office, it is clear that it is a violation of a number of international conventions, the european union's programme for children's rights, including the relevant legislative documents of the european union. these are rather complicated figures, involving cross-border cooperation, administrative cooperation, cooperation between social welfare bodies, social welfare bodies in individual member states which usually do not have sufficiently developed departments for international cooperation. it is therefore to be expected that such problems, difficulties will also occur in other member states and i therefore welcome all the requests that are set out in the resolution with the aim of improving cross-border judicial and administrative cooperation in the best interests of children living in separated families.
mr president, i also join the speakers who have clearly highlighted the importance and the positive aspects of the single market. in short, even for those eu citizens who may be critical of some of our policies, the single market policy is clearly explainable and defendable. however, we are still fighting protectionism and the idea of the single market must be defended and explained. in her speech, the commissioner asked the question whether the single market would ever be completed. i believe that the single market will never be completed. there will always be areas where it will be appropriate to adapt legislation already adopted or to find a single european regulation. if the basic institutional framework for the single market could be adopted by 2025, that would be great. in any event, i believe that at the end of the parliamentary term, we should review what has not been adopted and pass these matters on to the next administration, the next commission, the next parliament. it would be a great loss if the next parliament and the next commission started from scratch and did not build on what this commission has done and what this parliament has approved. in addition to what has not been completed, we should also communicate a vision where we think the objectives of parliament and the commission should be strengthened in the next election period, this is necessary in the area of services. i feel, as do some of my colleagues, that in the service sector, in short, the regulation is not working very effectively.
the single market is the european union's greatest strength, mr president, because it ensures economic prosperity and access to it can be used as an important card in relations with other global players, as they all want to sell their products and services in a large and rich market. instead of wasting time on further political integration, which has caused the uk to leave and fuelled growing mistrust of the union among citizens, we need to focus on what has been proven to work, and that is the single market. we need further economic integration, not political integration. i therefore hope that by the end of this mandate the commission will continue to strengthen the single market, reduce administrative burdens and remove the barriers that still exist in the financial, services and energy sectors.
mr. chairman, with the shift in the political map in the west, free global trade has lost some of its support. in both america and europe, calls for protectionist measures are growing. many people would like to blame brexit and trump, but the real truth is that europe has long since sunk into this madness. we can recall how ceta and ttip were received across the continent and how the left wing in this house reacted to them. europe also bears its share of responsibility for the narrowing of the space of freedom in global trade, but i must admit that the situation is changing for the better, if only because of the resistance to trump. in this regard, he proves to be very useful. the wto must adapt to new circumstances, but also to new trends on the world market. first of all, the digitisation of trade. the eu must be a supporter and a leading advocate of free trade.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the accession process should be a merit-based process that is entirely dependent on the objective progress of each candidate country. in this respect, i find the moderate tone with which this report approaches the issue of punishment for war crimes in serbia extremely worrying. it is self-evident that serbia is either being overlooked or not being analysed in detail and in depth. both scenarios are disturbing. war criminals in serbia are neither investigated nor punished. currently, the ruling faction in serbia is using unacceptable methods to cover up crimes committed in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. in the ovčar case, which involved the massacre of nearly 300 wounded from the vukovar hospital, the government protected the criminals, granted them immunity, new identities and obstructed the work of other states in investigating these crimes. i therefore call on all my colleagues in the european parliament and the commissioners responsible from this high house to finally open their eyes to prevent notorious criminals responsible for the deaths of hundreds of people from soon walking freely in the european union and to prevent such methods from becoming an integral part of the european justice system.
mr president, i would like to support this report right from the start and say that we are in a classic position. we all know that serbia has done a lot, and that there is still a lot more to be done. we all want to see serbia in this house one day, to see representatives and representatives here and we all want to support it, but serbia has to do its homework. as a man who in croatia did everything possible to help the serb minority when it was threatened in places where it was threatened, i also want to make it clear now that i want to support the croatian minority that is in serbia and that this should be discussed because it is also one of the problems in vojvodina. others have talked about other needs that serbia needs to meet, but it's important that we also talk about human and minority rights and, of course, what is, unfortunately, still a heavy legacy of the conflict in the balkans that was in the 1990s.
mr president, i appreciate the efforts of rapporteur david mcallister to support serbia's european perspective. i regret that serbia has not given a satisfactory response to the outstretched hand of support. sometimes i think that there are no significant moves because there is no political will. how else to explain that serbia continues to violate the rights of the croatian national minority, that to date it has not provided data on prisoners and missing persons and that it does not prosecute its war criminals, but allows them to be politically active, and even representatives in the assembly? how to interpret the serbian law that serbia has taken the role of little hague and which is a threat to all croatian defenders? it is not acceptable that the serbian border police arrest croatian citizens, who are also defenders, and subject them to humiliation and threats in order to intimidate them to stop investigating war crimes, which are a consequence of the great serbian aggression against croatia. all of this supports the argument that serbia is going the wrong way, not the european way, and i can only express regret for that.
mr. chairman, i would like to congratulate mr. scholtes on a quality report. the clear prospect of eu membership must remain one of the incentives for the implementation of much-needed reforms in the western balkan countries, including in the case of europe's youngest country. the good news from kosovo, in terms of meeting the conditions for visa liberalisation, is not accompanied by good news from the european union this time. parliament and the commission have sent a clear message and supported the abolition of visas for kosovo citizens to facilitate their travel, business and help in the fight against human trafficking. i regret that the council has not yet made possible the final liberalisation of the visa regime. this would send a clear message to kosovo, but also to the region, that fulfilling obligations always brings benefits, otherwise frustration grows. kosovo still has a long way to go in strengthening the rule of law, prosecuting politically motivated murders, fighting organised crime and corruption. only tangible reform results justify further european support, which, however, in the case of kosovo, must move from promises to implementation.
mr president, i would like to join this debate briefly as i was rapporteur in the shadow of this report and also visited kosovo several times as a member of the delegation. i am aware of the situation in the region, i am aware of the situation in kosovo. relations between serbia and kosovo are very complicated, that's clear to everyone here and the commissioner said it. the introduction of customs duties and tariffs will certainly not contribute to the normalisation of these relations, but also visa liberalisation is something we have promised them, something this parliament has voted for by a large majority and certainly the citizens of kosovo expect to be able to obtain visa liberalisation. i expect the council to take a decision on this soon, otherwise it will not be a good sign for citizens to experience this european journey. it is also necessary to fight corruption, it is necessary to reform, this is obvious, but also kosovo is very important for the region and the situation in kosovo is important for the whole of europe, and especially for south-east europe.
mr. president, one word is enough to describe the relations between kosovo and the european union at the present time. that word is credibility to me. the credibility of the european union when it comes to visa liberalisation. after the vote in this parliament, i expect a vote in the council because our credibility is at stake, since kosovo, at least in this part, has fulfilled the conditions we gave it. on the other hand, the credibility of kosovo is called into question and their intention to join the european union is called into question by the imposition of customs duties on bosnia and herzegovina and serbia in the amount of 100%. if someone wants the berlin process, if someone wants to join the european union, if someone wants to join the single market, if someone wants regional cooperation, they cannot impose a 100% tariff. so, credibility on our part so that we can credibly ask kosovo to accommodate us.
i congratulate mr weigl on a well-balanced resolution which, above all, clearly identifies and supports the positive processes in macedonia. macedonia is an example of long-awaited good news from a region burdened by chronic but also some brand new deficits. at the same time, we expect macedonia to continue key reform processes, notably in strengthening the rule of law. unfortunately, this principle also needs to be reminded of some member states that have been part of the european union for more than a decade. skopje is required to meet serious conditions that are not being met by any of the union's members before joining the bloc, as evidenced by hungary's role in the gruevski case. if we are to remain a credible community, respect for the rule of law must not be arbitrary. i congratulate the macedonian government on the progress in the implementation of the prespa agreement. i call on them to use this positive momentum to pursue reforms in order to open membership negotiations as soon as possible, bringing the prospect of a better life closer to all their fellow citizens.
madam chair, last week i was a guest at an event organized by the macedonian national minority in croatia. when someone in the hall shouted, "hey, you who love macedonia!", i responded because i love macedonia. this does not mean that i am not aware of the weaknesses macedonia has that need to be worked on from within. for most of them, the causes must be sought in the place where they originated, but i am convinced that these weaknesses would not be so strong today if the eu had been fair to macedonia. macedonia, through no fault of its own, has become a hostage to the unreasonable policy of the european union, which has sided with one of its members for 10 years, thus destroying the european perspective and the future of macedonia. i regret that this report does not give an objective picture of the situation and does not offer a self-critical overview of the failings of the european union. i believe that it is not too late to correct the mistake and open negotiations with macedonia and express support to the citizens of macedonia in order to overcome the difficulties and implement the necessary reforms and ensure stability in the region.
i'd like to address my colleagues on the balcony and my colleagues. in 2000, in zagreb, i had the opportunity to host the european integration office of the macedonian government and we started, croatia and macedonia together, a european journey. dear friends, i'm here and you're on the balcony. it's a shame we couldn't go together. i expected croatia to join the european union, at least along with romania and bulgaria, but we didn't. i'm sorry that you are still not sitting together with us, but i really want, and i believe, that you will be able to fulfill this homework that is in front of you, the ambitious plans that the government has and i hope, the smart opposition, will allow north macedonia, i hope soon, to open all roads and finally come here, where you belong.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i must say that i am extremely concerned about the situation in albania and what is albania's european path. namely, the meetings that we have regularly with the delegation in the albanian parliament and in our parliament, and the last meeting that we had in brussels here, showed that there is indeed a very divided country. i can understand the opposition leaving the parliament, leaving because i did it in the 90s, but leaving the session with our delegation, i can't understand it because i think that if they really want to join the european union, if they want to be part of the european parliament, then they have to sit and talk to us, not get up and leave the session. so i'm concerned about the political culture and political relations with albania in the years ahead.
member of the commission. – madam president, state secretary, honourable members, thank you for this debate. albania is expected to advance on the rule of law reforms to move forward on the path towards the union, but first and foremost, it needs to deliver progress for the daily benefit of all its citizens across the country. we trust that advancing on the rule of law will progressively result in a better business environment which is crucial to create more jobs and hence foster socio-economic stabilisation. the observations in your resolution provide very good guidance for albania in all these areas. however, i would like to reiterate one issue that concerns regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. i think everybody should aim at calming down the situation, especially concerning the kosovo-serbia relations. there is no alternative to dialogue and normalisation. this is in the interest of the entire region and its eu perspective, therefore everybody across the region should refrain from unhelpful statements that could be seen as inflammatory or taking sides. to conclude, i would like to reiterate that the commission will continue to support albania while monitoring results thoroughly. concrete results will not only bring the country closer to the union but also guarantee that all albanian citizens can rely on a functioning democratic state that successfully provides welfare, security and opportunities. the eu reform agenda requires broad political support which needs to be matched by concrete efforts from all the parties to engage in constructive dialogue. i hope that all political actors in albania will also work with this important objective in mind, in particular in the forthcoming months.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, again, let me express my sincere gratitude for the excellent work and commitment of parliament’s rapporteur on albania, mr fleckenstein. albania has taken many steps in the right direction and the reform efforts are bearing fruits. we expect the political leaders to overcome internal difficulties and join their forces on advancing on the eu path. in this regard we count on the continued support of the european parliament to call on all leaders of albania to cooperate in good faith. decisive action is now needed to make the required progress. the eu will continue to assist albania.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, montenegro remains the front—runner in the accession process and has made further progress over the past years, as already mentioned in detail by the rapporteur. with the institutional framework complete and the legal framework largely in place, the entire rule of law system should now deliver more tangible results and a strengthened and sustainable track record. progress in particular on the rule of law and fundamental rights chapters, as set out in the negotiation framework, will continue to determine the pace of accession negotiations overall. therefore, montenegro should now focus its reform efforts on meeting the interim benchmarks for chapters 23 and 24 and on implementing the respective action plans. the council strongly encourages montenegro to demonstrate real results in the fight against corruption and organised crime, money laundering and trafficking in human beings, including through effective investigations, prosecutions and final convictions, and to improve the seizure and confiscation of criminal assets. recent attacks against journalists highlight the urgent need for the authorities to guarantee a safe climate conducive to freedom of expression and the independence of the media. on economic reforms, the council has taken positive note of the continuous economic growth and has encouraged montenegro to take measures to ensure fiscal sustainability, decrease the high public debt, reduce the trade deficit, advance reforms in important areas, such as public procurement and labour market, and improve the business environment. with regard to elections, montenegro’s authority needs to address all irregularities reported by international observers. returning the political debate to the parliament remains the responsibility of all parties. the council has warmly welcomed montenegro’s continued positive role in further developing regional cooperation and advancing good neighbourly relations, strongly commended it also for its consistent cooperation on foreign policy issues and, in particular, for its continuous full alignment with the eu common foreign and security policy. the clear messages in your draft resolutions are well appreciated. it is clear that montenegro has homework to do. montenegro will have to intensify its focus on implementing reforms with determination and on fulfilling all benchmarks. to conclude, let me use this opportunity to assure you that we, as the presidency, will continue to support montenegro in its reform process and will do our utmost to move the accession negotiations forward. we also count on montenegro to do its part and maintain the reform momentum.
member of the commission. – madam president, state secretary, honourable members, let me start by congratulating the rapporteur charles tannock for his well-balanced report on montenegro. i also want to thank all honourable members who have contributed to this. montenegro has indeed made steady progress on its eu path. montenegro’s legal and institutional framework is now largely in place. the country is strongly committed to regional cooperation and has good relations with its neighbours and, in the context of the western balkans, this is not a minor achievement. let me also welcome again montenegro’s complete alignment with the union’s common foreign and security policy positions. montenegro is a country with a clear eu perspective. it is well in the eu integration process with 31 chapters open for negotiation, three of which are provisionally closed. there’s overwhelming support for eu membership among the population and across the political spectrum. fully functioning national parliaments play a key role in this process. i am glad that, finally, after a prolonged boycott of parliament by the opposition, there has been real progress in political dialogue with the return of most of the opposition to the parliament. in october a temporary parliamentary committee for the reform of electoral and other legislation was formed. its mandate is based on the proposal made by the two civic opposition parties in june. i regret and i fail to understand that these two opposition parties have decided not to participate in the work of this committee. all parties should play an active and constructive role in the work of this committee. i look forward to the continuation of montenegro’s eu integration process. as ever, the base of negotiations is in montenegro’s hands. we start seeing initial results with concrete cases in some areas, including the fight against corruption and organised crime and investigations into money laundering. i look forward to now seeing a similar track record for the fight against trafficking in human beings, media freedom and investigations into attacks against journalists. attacks against journalists are unacceptable and need to be followed and cleared up. the overall priority for montenegro remains to meet the interim benchmarks for chapters 23 and 24 and therefore continue advancing in the accession process. further fiscal consolidation measures are also required, combined with the timely implementation of montenegro’s reform priorities, which would lead to a more flexible economy, improved functioning of markets and a good investment climate. i also expect the effective implementation of the public administration reform to ensure effective depoliticisation of the public service and to allocate state administration resources where they are needed for the country’s eu accession process. on its side the european commission will continue supporting montenegro on its eu path with both technical and financial assistance, so that the journey towards eu membership already brings concrete benefits to all citizens of montenegro.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support and gratitude to mr tannock for the comprehensive report and the good cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to refer in particular to the issue of freedom of the press, which was discussed here. so, along with the continued intimidation and attacks on journalists, there are also attacks on the independence of the national broadcaster and the council for electronic media. it should be emphasized that local public media are in a similar position of dependence, and in general it should be noted that the labor-law situation of journalists is very difficult, uncertain, with low salaries and salaries that are often late and, of course, it should also be noted the unclear ownership structure of the media. under such conditions, of course, there can be no quality and free media and i think these issues should be dealt with more in our reports.
madam president, as things stand today, it is quite clear that montenegro will be the first country to be a newly admitted member of the european union. i want to believe, of course, that montenegro will fulfill its obligations, which are clearly underlined in this report, and that it will do everything to bring both media freedoms and all other freedoms that citizens should have to that level when the country becomes mature for joining the european union, but i want to say here and underline our problem. commissioner, i know that you have been following the western balkans for a long time and doing a great job, but we are in a situation where we have to make it clear this time that the 'regate principle' is the principle of accession to the european union. no block, i don't know what, i don't know what wait, but regatta principle. whoever gets there first has the right to join the european union, as croatia did, after all.
i would like to draw the commission's attention to the announcement of a possible withdrawal of funds needed for the italian minority in croatia and slovenia. the new italian government seems to be ignoring its own laws and questioning the functioning of the italian minority organization. especially if we don't find the funds for kindergartens, schools and everything that has been funded since the third month of 2001. i don't think that the croatian government, the istrian county, the coastal-mountain municipalities and cities will find the funds easily. this is particularly important for the daily newspaper la voce del popolo, which is published in italian and contributes to the recognition of the italian minority. i want to ask the commission and warn it to be vigilant about this because it really makes no sense to now, after all, question the italian minority in croatia.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, madam commissioner, as a member of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, i have visited the world's crisis hotspots, met many refugees and found that they all share the same goal - to find a safe haven for themselves and their families. in 2015, we saw how it takes just one spark to disrupt the fragile peace in the western balkans with the wave of refugees moving towards europe. croatia, which has the longest land border with the western balkans, knows this very well. italy and spain, with their maritime borders to africa, were the most vulnerable to the waves of refugees and could not erect walls. the member states of the european union and the member states of the united nations should not approach this problem individually but should participate and act together in creating comprehensive solutions. i regret that the global compact on migration is controversial, but i hope that a middle ground will be found, as the european parliament did in its resolution on the global compact, which i worked on as a negotiator on behalf of the european people's party, which will serve as a roadmap for how to deal with this issue in a humane and acceptable way.
mr president, the need to create a global framework for migration exists because it is evident that a large number of states do not respect the international order and openly release migrants to their final destinations. tens of thousands of people at this very moment, without documents, with false identities and without real checks, are crossing the border and going to one of the western countries, while those who miss them turn their heads away from the problem and thus endanger us all. migration must be safer for migrants as well as for the local population. a lot of people have come into europe that we don't know who they are or what their real intentions are. the un compact on migration is not the framework for solving this global challenge because it is rejected by the americans, australia, israel and a number of european countries. this means that it is mostly supported by the countries from which people leave, but not by those who should be receiving them. that doesn't solve the problem, it just makes it worse.
the united states, austria, bulgaria, the czech republic and hungary are the countries that have withdrawn from signing the marrakesh declaration, while slovakia, poland, estonia, australia, israel and switzerland have expressed reservations to the declaration and indicate that they will not participate in the ratification of the declaration. the failure of these countries to ratify the declaration should call for some caution. what concerns me most, within the text of the declaration, is the fact that the boundaries between legal and illegal migration are being erased. despite the fact that the declaration is a non-binding document, member states can incorporate it into their legislation, which may create long-term problems with regard to migration and sovereignty in the future. the eu has made a mistake in its approach to migration, not addressing it where it originated, but by its policies it has further fuelled the waves. i think it's important to help people who are fleeing war and to show them with our humanity that we are with them, but when it comes to economic migration, it's necessary to create the social, economic and political conditions in the countries from which migrants come, so that they can stay and live decently in their homeland. i believe that the eu should not put pressure on member states, but that they should decide for themselves whether to join the marrakesh declaration and should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether and how many migrants they can take into their country.
written. the word 'disability' covers many different temporary, short-term or long-term personal situations that require tailored policy responses and include mental difficulties. all persons with disabilities should be able to fully enjoy their rights based on inclusion and to participate fully in society. this is only possible with the implementation of active and public policies and the removal of all barriers to participation. the eu currently has some 46 million women and girls with disabilities, representing around 16% of the total number of women in the union and 60% of the total population with disabilities, and only 18.8% of women with disabilities in the eu are employed. women and girls with disabilities are exposed to double discrimination due to the combination of gender and disability and may often be exposed to multiple discrimination arising from the combination of gender and disability. this motion for a resolution calls on the member states to implement policies for the prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of persons with disabilities and for the support of their families, and to take responsibility for the effective exercise of their rights, without prejudice to the rights and duties of parents or guardians. it also calls for the development of a pedagogy that raises awareness in society of the duty of respect and solidarity towards persons with disabilities in order to combat the social discrimination to which they are exposed.
the following is the list of the clubs that have been awarded the contracts: mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate our rapporteur, gerbrandy, on an excellent report, especially in the part concerning the increase in the budget for the life programme. i think this is extremely important and i agree with commissioner vell that, of course, there are other funds that can finance environmental protection and climate change, but this one should have at least one per cent of the next budget so that it can provide for those good things that are already recognised in the current life programme. i would like to point out that our cities and our regions have shown how useful these funds are and that 100% funding through technical assistance and capacity building certainly contributes to those objectives which will help to use other funds in a much better and more qualitative way than before.
madam chairman, the legislative process is incomplete and flawed without an impact assessment of the regulations. very often, the regulations on safety at work are too complicated or not well developed, leaving too much room for arbitrary interpretation by the inspectorates. in some member states, inspections use this space to punish employers disproportionately and often unnecessarily and to spread anti-entrepreneurial sentiment. when it comes to dangerous carcinogens or mutagens, the regulations must absolutely protect workers. the life of a worker must not be endangered in any way in the workplace. i particularly support the part of the report which calls for specific measures for women of reproductive age with the overall aim of protecting the health of the unborn and future generations. but there is also the growing number of agents that affect male infertility. to ensure a healthy future, we need both healthy women and healthy men.
mr president, accession to the schengen area and the consequent abolition of internal border controls must be a clear and transparent process. there are concrete criteria, and once they are met, there should be no political complications. we must bear in mind that free movement without checks is one of the main benefits of membership of the union in the eyes of citizens, and any excessive politicization of this issue undermines their trust in the european institutions. this is especially the case when the council and parliament have completely different approaches to such an important issue. the council's approach is, in my view, wrong and introduces legal uncertainty. as i come from croatia, a country whose accession to schengen is a strategic objective, i really hope that in our case it will not be so politicized.
mr president, i congratulate mr stanishev on a report which deserves the european parliament's full support. it's time we started to consistently apply the rules we've set for ourselves. bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the conditions for accession to schengen and for the abolition of border controls by land, sea and air. the schengen agreement must be completed in two steps, and i welcome the reiterated call on the council to include in the schengen area by means of a single act two member states which fulfilled the conditions seven years ago. i come from a country that is in the process of meeting those same criteria, a country that successfully controls the longest european external border, and therefore i expect the same treatment for croatia. the rapporteur shares this view, for which i am particularly grateful. schengen one of the most visible achievements of european integration must not be a collateral victim of the deficits of our security policies. it is unacceptable that in 2018, bulgaria and romania are still outside schengen, and croatia, the youngest member of the union, is barbed wire from its neighbours.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this interesting discussion. on behalf of the commission, i would like to congratulate mr grammatikakis on his excellent report on the new european agenda for culture. the commission adopted the new agenda for culture as a response to eu leaders who, just about a year ago, had underlined the potential of culture as a means of creating a more inclusive and cohesive europe. they therefore asked us to boost cooperation on culture at european level. i am proud to say that we, the commission, the european parliament and the council, are delivering on this call. it is inspiring to see that we are all working towards the same objectives. in fact, last month, member states adopted a new council work plan for culture 2019-2021. it contains over 30 measures, many of which coincide both with the commission’s new agenda for culture and with the points made by mr grammatikakis in his report. let me highlight some of them. first, together with the member states, the commission will leverage the power of culture to enhance social cohesion and to address the growing polarisation in european societies, a topic which is also highlighted in your report. engaging with europe’s culture promotes the inclusion of disadvantaged groups. gender equality is a welcome new priority reflected in both the parliamentary report and the council work plan. second, it is excellent to have a measure for music in the council work plan. with the support of the european parliament, we have progressed on the music moves europe initiative, and it is now time to bring this onto the policy level. third, on international cultural relations, your report calls on the commission to regularly update parliament on the state of play of the initiatives we take to boost the role of culture in external relations. i am pleased to inform you that the council has agreed to complete its work on an eu strategic approach to international cultural relations. the commission and the european external action service are advancing their work on european houses of culture and on global cultural leadership training. fourth, as your report makes clear, eu policymaking on culture is better if it is backed by providing financial support to the cultural and creative sectors. that is why the commission’s proposal for a new creative europe programme after 2020 is fully aligned with our policy agenda, and proposes to increase funding. i am grateful for your support for the programme in general and on the key issue of the budget in particular. in line with your report, the new agenda for culture is a truly cross-cutting agenda, listing all eu funding opportunities available to cultural operators in fields as diverse as education, research, cohesion, the digital single market and external affairs. lastly, cultural heritage: a few days ago in vienna, i presented the european framework for action on cultural heritage. the framework aims to ensure that the 2018 european year of cultural heritage will have a lasting impact. you will be pleased to see that the framework addresses both tangible and intangible heritage, as emphasised in your report. honourable members, let me thank you sincerely for your strong support for, and throughout, the european year of cultural heritage. together, we have made it happen. together we can make it last beyond 2018. i believe that our new instruments will help us build more inclusive and cohesive societies and sustain our competitiveness, and, by doing so, they will invigorate the european project. the commission looks forward to putting them into practice with you.
written. culture plays a vital role in our societies and economies in creating a sense of belonging, promoting active citizenship and defining our identity and the core values of freedom, diversity, equality, solidarity and social justice. i support the report on the new european agenda for culture because all cultural and creative sectors should be given equal and tailored support to their specific challenges and cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue should be maintained as intersectoral priorities. the new agenda for culture is an excellent opportunity to establish a comprehensive and coherent cultural policy at european level that will be recognised by european citizens and citizens of non-eu countries alike. the aim of the project is to develop a european cultural heritage site, which will be used to promote cultural heritage in europe and to promote cultural heritage in the european union. the new agenda for culture should provide a flexible framework for changing cultural ecosystems and fostering synergies between sectors.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's budget for the period 2021-2027 reflects the new reality of the absence of the united kingdom as a member state and the dissatisfaction of a number of other countries with the way the union is functioning or with some of its common policies. the union will have to do more where it represents added value that everyone welcomes and less to interfere in matters that produce half-hearted solutions, misunderstandings and conflicts. it is time to rediscover subsidiarity and to incorporate that principle into this budget. enough of expensive programmes whereby brussels seizes powers not contractually conferred on it, enough of unnecessary joint bodies with poorly defined powers and enough of expensive unrealistic dreams of federalists. the budget must be realistic and sustainable and must keep pace with the needs of a dynamic community. continuing with the current practices can only bring new instability and division.
mr. chairman, thank you very much. as co-chair of the life working group, i strongly supported this report because i believe that environmental protection should not be an obstacle to economic growth and employment, quite the contrary. stopping and reducing biodiversity loss, decarbonisation and the transition to a circular economy are crucial for socio-economic well-being and global competitiveness. the european union should be the global leader in this context. the life programme is the only programme specifically dedicated to environment and climate action and remains a key and effective instrument for delivering assistance and achieving the objectives of the european union. that is why i think it is necessary and justified to double the financial support for the life programme. the allocation of funds at national level has proven ineffective and the gradual phasing out of such allocations under the life programme is welcomed. it is estimated that 4.4 million jobs are directly dependent on healthy ecosystems and that the natura 2000 network contributes between 1.7 and 2.5% of gdp, so i have, once again, supported and support this report.
mr. chairman, thank you very much. i also voted strongly in favour of this proposal for a directive today. by the way, i'm leading a campaign in my home country of croatia called "how to fight cancer?" or "fight & win". i have organized a series of conferences all over croatia with people who are dealing with this plague because, unfortunately, cancer has become an epidemic or, i might even say, a pandemic and it is very important that the european parliament and we, as legislators, take care of this, especially carcinogens in the workplace. i would like to raise in particular the problem of health workers, that is to say doctors and medical staff, who, by helping others to treat cancer, are themselves exposed to carcinogens, and this is also something that this directive is addressing. i hope that we will reduce these terrible statistics that we have received from the european commission that every day 7 to 12 people die from the consequences of carcinogens at work and therefore i hope that this directive will finally see the light of day and that it will also be supported by all the institutions.
the european union's citizens continue to be most concerned about their safety and that of their loved ones following the series of terrorist attacks on european territory in recent years. i believe that this report by mrs hohlmeier and mrs stevens is the most responsive to the requests of our citizens and i believe that it will provide a better understanding of the terrorist threat in all crisis areas. it is important to underline the need to further strengthen cooperation between police and intelligence agencies, taking into account their operational and legal specificities and scope. the counter-terrorism group shall be composed of representatives of the member states and of europol. i point to croatia, which has the longest border (the chairman briefly interrupted her speech, saying that the mep should slow down a bit). as croatia's border with the european union is 1300 km long, i am pleased that our interests are also included in this report because croatia is key to maintaining peace and stability in south east europe. so we are fighting for final entry into the schengen area, which will further strengthen the european union's capacity to successfully counter all forms of terrorist threats and threats.
madam president, first of all, i express my sympathy to all the victims and their families and call for a joint and uncompromising fight against terrorism. terrorism happened before 2015, but it happened far from the eyes of the european union, which is why sometimes heads were turned and no active measures were taken, until the moment when terrorism started happening on european soil. our citizens deserve to live in peace and prosperity and we must provide that for them. unfortunately, in the european union, the rise of radicalisation is undermining the security of our citizens, and they rightly question all of us who make decisions about what measures we will take and whether those measures will be effective. we have reports from many national parliaments that point and point to the causes of radicalism, but unfortunately, the reaction and the action is lacking. that is why i call on the european parliament to give the appropriate instructions within this committee on terrorism on the measures we need to take.
the fisheries sector is a significant contributor to the export of food products of the republic of croatia. the value of exports of fishery products is higher than the value of imports thanks to the export of our tuna, and that is to japan. the eu-japan economic partnership agreement provides for new market opportunities, such as tariff reductions and increased market access for small and medium-sized enterprises. although croatian agricultural and food products will have easier access to the japanese market, unfortunately, it seems that this has not been exploited in the best possible way. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the product concerned is a product of the croatian state. i think it is important that our products with a geographical indication, which are already recognisable on the european market, are also marketed in other countries. the agreements bring new opportunities for our producers and for croatian agriculture, and croatia as a full member state must have its place in the trade agreements that the eu concludes with other countries. i expect the authorities in the croatian government to engage on this issue because it is unacceptable that there are no croatian products with a geographical indication in trade agreements between the eu and other countries.
mr president, madam high commissioner, i would like to thank my colleagues paşcu and mcallister for their good cooperation and for a good report which mentions a number of new challenges facing the european union and also states that we will continue to face these new challenges in the years ahead. it is therefore very logical that we have developed some new policies within the common policy and i support the inclusion of both the european defence agency and the european defence fund and military mobility and the european defence and industrial development programme in the budget of the european union, but there is still the question of how these new policies will work. they are a big step after the long stalemate of european security and defence policy, but it remains to be seen what their practical results will be and what the hard or tough power of the european union referred to in these reports means in general.
mr president, i thank and thank the rapporteurs mcallister and paşca and the high commissioner for setting out the priorities of european foreign security and defence policy. i think the report is very well done, and so is the presentation, and i congratulate the high commissioner on her presentation. i would just like to add and point out the need to pay attention to what is happening on the south-eastern border of the european union, and that is the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, where it will be extremely difficult to form a government at this moment at all levels because of the current crisis. i would like to point out that the european union, together with mrs mogherini, is making every effort to find a middle ground with the other world actors involved in these processes and to find a neutral position and help to establish peace and security in this part of europe.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr gahler, on a well-balanced report, which clearly identifies the successes but also the shortcomings that weigh on ukraine today. the fight against corruption at all levels and the stronger reform momentum to improve the social and economic living conditions of ukrainian citizens must not be slowed down or stopped under the pretext of the looming developments in the east of the country. the latest crisis in the sea of azov only confirms that the security situation in the east of the continent is extremely unstable. it will remain so because the foundations of international law are continually being violated. by attacking ukrainian ships in international waters south of kerch, moscow has clearly violated international law. the two countries signed a 2003 agreement allowing their ships to pass freely through the kerch strait. the sea of azov, of course, did not become russia's internal sea with the annexation of crimea. concerns and the increase in the number of military exercises in the black sea region, and the growing number of incidents between the western allies and the russian army the european union, as the most credible and successful peace project in european and world history, must remain a mediator of peace and a promoter of cooperation. that means refraining from advocating any action that would further increase the already high level of tension in the region. the closure of member states' ports to russian merchant ships would, for example, be such a wrong move as to our support for ukraine must remain proactive on different on the act.
the following is the list of the clubs that have been awarded the contracts: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking mr salini and the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation in reaching compromise solutions to make the european space programme the driver of the development of the european space industry and of the entire european union economy. the special-purpose satellites that we have in orbit, our network of navigation satellites, not only represents a technological leap forward from the rest of the world, but it's also a social leap forward, because this data is open. it's about the use of force, the control of force over our system and what we've managed to fight for, so that this system, with increased funding, will be like that in the future as well. satellites are, of course, also a realm of innovation, but not just innovation in technology and hardware, they're innovation in the development of the various applications and applications that they bring as well. data and information are the most valuable commodity today. a few weeks ago, a publication of the european network of space regions was presented in the european parliament itself 99 examples of how copernicus data is being used in everyday applications in our regions. this shows the recognition not only of the region but also of all those businesses and economies that have managed to use this data in the right way. galileo, as the backbone of our future intelligent transport system, is very important, but i have to point out that the budget that we have provided for the european space agency has to be correlated with the budget that we are providing for our regions, to be even more successful in using this satellite data.
member of the commission. – mr president, as the commissioners and members of this house have been doing in the last two days, please allow me to express my solidarity with the families of the victims of the terrible attacks here in strasbourg and solidarity with france and the french people. thank you for the opportunity to discuss the situation of migrants at the border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. first, let me give you the general picture. bosnia and herzegovina was not affected by the 2015 migratory crisis. however, between 1 january and 30 november 2018, around 23 000 migrants entered the country, a substantial increase compared to 2017, but still manageable. ninety—two percent expressed their intention to ask for asylum, but only five did so. most of them seek to go to eu countries. migrants primarily consider bosnia and herzegovina, as other western balkan countries, a transit country. as of 4 december, there are currently 4 139 migrants and asylum seekers receiving assistance in bosnia and herzegovina, 3 126 of them in the una-sana canton in the north—west corner of the country and close to the border with croatia. one thousand additional migrants who have not yet requested assistance are estimated to be present in the area. the commission responded immediately to the needs of bosnia and herzegovina. since june 2018 the commission has made available a substantial amount of funds to, first, address the immediate needs of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants; second, to provide adequate accommodation and basic services; third, to increase the capacity of identification; and, fourth, to support the bosnia and herzegovina border police. this includes eur 2 million in humanitarian aid and eur 7.2 million via a special measure of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). these are implemented by the international organisation for migration (iom), in cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) and the united nations children’s fund (unicef). these funds are in addition to those already allocated for bosnia and herzegovina via the main ipa, notably on border management, migration and asylum. thanks to european union assistance, migrants in the una—sana canton are reallocated from informal sites to organised reception centres. the objective is to ensure appropriate accommodation conditions. four thousand persons now have a roof for the winter and nobody is left out in the cold. sixty—one children will soon start their school year in the primary schools of una—sana canton. further assistance to bosnia and herzegovina will be available to cover the needs from april 2019 onwards. this will be based on the assessment by authorities. as you know, negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina for a status agreement for the deployment of european border and coastguard teams have been concluded. we look forward to signing the agreement as soon as possible. the status agreement will allow for assistance to the border police in managing the border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, but the primary responsibility remains of course with the two countries. in recent weeks, bosnia and herzegovina has deployed 180 additional police officers to improve border security. relations between the bosnia and herzegovina border police and the migrants seems to be positive overall, as reported to european union officials. but, as i said, bosnia and herzegovina is a transit country and many migrants try to cross the border every day. the situation is also not easy for the local population, which reports tensions and fear of security incidents. over recent months there have been reports of serious allegations of mistreatment of migrants by the croatian police at the border with bosnia and herzegovina. the commission has been actively and closely monitoring these developments and raised these allegations with the croatian authorities. let me stress that the eu readmission agreement should be applied to migrants illegally crossing the eu borders. it should be applied without prejudice to the right to apply for asylum and, more generally, of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the member states arising from international law, notably of course the principle of non—refoulement. the croatian ombudsman, lora vidovic, presented a report in october to the croatian parliament in which she voiced her concerns that the police were violating migrants’ right to international protection and obstructing the authority to obtain information. we are closely monitoring the situation. we all agree that the border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina is an external european union border and croatia is responsible for its management. the measures at the eu’s external borders must be proportionate and comply with respect for fundamental rights. let me conclude by underlining that we are confident that the croatian authorities will take the allegations seriously and conduct swift and thorough investigations. second, border guards and police authorities in all member states are expected to carry out their duties in full respect of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, i hope you are aware, mr commissioner, that croatia's border is the longest border in the european union, with bosnia and herzegovina, almost 1000 kilometres, a total of 1300 kilometres, and that we are preparing to enter the schengen system. so the croatian police are doing everything possible in accordance with the regulations to ensure croatia's ability to enter the schengen zone, while trying to respect all international regulations and all rules. you yourself said that there was an increase in the number of migrants and that bosnia and herzegovina was not on the route in 2015, which is not the case now. the ministry of interior of the republic of croatia has recently published data showing that the number of people who have been deported has increased by 57%, which means that there are 6415 people in total compared to 2017. the eu has also provided humanitarian assistance to the victims of the conflict in the former yugoslavia. the commission has also received comments from the turkish authorities, which have not provided any further information. unfortunately, because of the non-compliance of the visa regime of some other countries in the western balkans with the visa regime of the european union, there is a greater migration risk. in any case, the fact is that the protection of the borders of bosnia and herzegovina, but also of albania and montenegro, is being worked on. croatia has more border police than all three of those countries combined. of course, the asylum system in bosnia and herzegovina needs to be strengthened, but also in other countries in the western balkans. the conditions of the voluntary return programme should also be ensured. as you know, croatia provides bilateral assistance to other countries on the western balkans migration route, and you yourself also mentioned the assistance provided by the european commission, following the european council meeting. so, it's almost 2 million euros in humanitarian aid and 6 million euros in aid to strengthen the reception centers. in any case, the croatian authorities are working to the maximum on this problem, but at the same time taking into account that croatia is an external border and that we want to become part of the schengen area.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the mass migration into bosnia and herzegovina is a matter of great concern and the country lacks the capacity to deal with this challenge, which has a public health dimension in addition to the political, humanitarian and security dimensions. migrants are living in inhumane conditions, and basic necessities and medical care are lacking. their difficult situation forces them to penetrate croatia, which shares a long and very porous border with bosnia and herzegovina. despite the best efforts of the croatian police, migrant groups are increasingly penetrating croatia, and the local population is the victim of theft and burglary. croatia will not become a so-called hot spot and will continue to guard its own and european border. to do this as successfully as possible, logistical and financial assistance is needed. it is also important that in these very circumstances croatia is admitted to schengen as soon as it meets all the conditions. this would send a strong message that the union stands behind all its member states, and in particular those that are under direct pressure from the waves of migration.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, there are two reasons why i have proposed that we discuss this situation in bosnia and herzegovina, on the border with croatia, on the border with the european union. the first reason is certainly a humanistic reason, a human reason. the situation of migrants, the situation where children are frozen, the problem of education of these children and all that is happening to them in a difficult way, but also the problems in relations with the local population and the violence that exists among the migrants themselves, the fear of the local population, the fear of the people in croatia. we have to discuss this here, we can't just sweep it under the rug. the second reason is certainly the schizophrenic situation that croatia is in. on the one hand, it's called croatia because of the fact that, apparently, things haven't been great when it comes to the treatment of refugees, and on the other hand, there's an obligation to protect the borders of the european union. so i think there's a big challenge here for the european commission as well. i am grateful for the help that has been given to bosnia and herzegovina so far because it is of course helping the situation in croatia, but on the other hand, i think we must follow every situation in bosnia and herzegovina closely to the end because we need to help that country. its institutions are still not functioning properly, and the problems then concern the european union and us. so i call on the commission to continue to monitor, to continue to fund and to really make sure that all those who are in bosnia and herzegovina as migrants are treated humanely, but, on the other hand, also that we do not allow illegal migration and immigration into bosnia and herzegovina. so i think after everything we've seen, after what we've been through even a few years ago, that the wave of migration has subsided, but it's still there, and it's our duty to talk about it and to care about it.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, i would like to respond to the colleague who unfairly calls croatia, a croatia that was recently in marrakesh and was trying to control and help regular migration flows in a regular way. this is the populist way of trying to divide europe. this is the exact opposite of what can be done to help these poor people who are seeking salvation and who are seeking safety. so don't bring in and don't help the populists in this way by accusing croatia. that's not true.
the question she raised by raising her blue card. mr. chairman, i have a question for ms. guzmán, following her presentation and activism over the last few months on this topic. i have a question for you. are you using this issue for your own personal promotion and are you using the fate of these sad, poor migrants for your own personal promotion? as regards croatia, croatia is implementing all the anti-crime measures that the austrian presidency has strongly presented, and that is why the croatian police are acting in accordance with all possible regulations and international rules, taking into account, of course, human rights.
mr president, croatia has faced a marked increase in illegal border crossings during 2018, primarily from neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina. that's an increase of as much as 57% over the previous year. i remind you that croatia has the longest external land border of the european union, and in protecting that border it does not follow the example of its neighbors, the eu members, who protect their borders with barbed wire. the eu has also provided support to the government of bosnia and herzegovina in the form of grants to the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) to investigate allegations of human rights violations and to provide assistance to the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina in the implementation of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty). as a member expecting to join schengen as soon as possible, croatia is aware that migration is a global challenge and has supported the marrakesh global compact. the union has the right to expect all member states and potential member states to respect fundamental human rights and to investigate and prosecute those responsible for their violation. at the same time, the union has an obligation to help more strongly those countries that, with limited resources, face the local repercussions of a major european problem on such a long border.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, croatia is in a situation where neighbouring countries on the inbound route have opened their borders, are unwilling or unable to control the influx of refugees, and neighbouring countries on the outbound route, the european union member states, have closed their borders with barbed wire. so, this is a very difficult situation. we have set high standards in international conventions on respect for rights, including the rights of migrants and the rights of children, and we have not created legal presuppositions either at the european level or at the level of national states, nor have we developed policies to respect these high international standards, and that is why we are in the situation we are in. the commissioner was talking about this, about the ombudsman's report, but in that report it says that the principle of solidarity in the relocation of refugees in the european union is not fully respected and that this principle is controversial because it is not respected. similarly, the court of justice of the european union has held that allowing the free entry and transfer of refugees across borders is in fact a breach of the dublin regulation. so those are the questions that need to be asked. so more solidarity and help for countries that are facing refugees, both those that are members and those that are not members of the european union.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the croatian police for the extremely demanding work they are doing, protecting the european union's external border with great professionalism against illegal crossings, and thus safeguarding the security of croatian and european citizens. this year, more than 22 000 refugees, asylum seekers and migrants have arrived in bosnia and herzegovina, of whom around 4000 have expressed a need for humanitarian assistance. the european union allocated eur 2 million in 2018 for their accommodation, while for humanitarian aid over the last three years it allocated eur 31 million for the western balkans. at this time, the most important thing is to help the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina and humanitarian organizations so that they can help those in need. the union's assistance should be extended to assist the administration of bosnia and herzegovina in the speedy resolution of asylum applications and the speedy return to the home countries of all those who do not meet the conditions for asylum. bosnia and herzegovina should also use the eu funds to make progress in the fight against the growing radicalisation and extremism in the country. the area of bosnia and herzegovina has always been characterised by coexistence and tolerance, and today, unfortunately, other values are being promoted that threaten the security of the entire region. the flow of money to radicalisation must be stopped, as well as the spread of radicalisation itself, so that the tragic events we have witnessed in france, germany and belgium do not happen.
mr. chairman, i hope i'm being translated right this time. as the rapporteur for bosnia and herzegovina, mr preda, has said, the politicization of the refugee question is in full swing in bosnia and herzegovina. we have a problem of government functioning, money is not a problem, money exists, but the refugees agree on the border with the european union, on the border with croatia. croatia has an obligation to protect the security of its borders, to protect the security of the european union and croatia absolutely respects all international conventions and in this case i call on the authorities in sarajevo to finally get serious, together with the international community, and solve this problem where it started, at its source. the money is there, and refugees cannot be sent to the borders of the european union and transfer the security problem to the security problem of the republic of croatia.
mr. chairman, in the past few months, we have witnessed numerous arrests of activists and protesters against the iranian regime. iran continues to carry out executions, and political prisoners are among those executed. in addition to human rights activists, the iranian regime has arrested women and human rights lawyers, such as reza khandan and nasrin sotoudeh. political prisoners are currently on hunger strike, and their mental and physical condition is unknown. christians and other religious minorities are also persecuted in iran. i also express my concern about the iranian regime's continued pursuit of its nuclear missile program, which is a major threat to international peace. i wonder, commissioner, how the dialogue with the iranian authorities is progressing with regard to stopping the executions and preventing the violence being carried out against political prisoners, human rights activists, women and christians in iran?
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, statistics show that almost 10% of the european population suffers from various rare diseases, and there are over five thousand of them. a disease is said to be rare when it affects no more than one person in 2,000. however, that's just statistics. fates are what our esteemed colleague mrs meissner said, fates are the tragedy of our people and fates are what we here in this parliament must worry about and talk about. so the suggestions that we've heard in part, i think we should definitely consider. you mentioned e-health or e-medicine. we should have, in addition to this network you speak of, we should have not only at national level but also at regional level have centres, have the possibility of a common central european database, where someone from my pula or, i don't know, from riga or tallinn, could really be somewhere in some part of europe present, have information and know what it's all about. early enough, of course, because that's what's most important. so i think that these proposals that we're talking about here today are something that can certainly contribute to the fight against rare diseases. what i would like to suggest to you, mr. commissioner, is something that is not stated here. i think the european union is mature, the european commission with you at the helm, you are the one who will lead the global coalition to fight rare diseases. get the world health organization on board, get the other rich countries on board! today we voted here for a free trade agreement with japan, involving japan in the fight to control rare diseases, involving the united states, involving the rich countries, involving all those countries that want to! the more of us there are, the stronger we will be in the fight against rare diseases, because if 10% of the population, or almost 10% of the population in the european union, suffers from rare diseases, on a global scale it can probably only be even more so, and in that context i think it would be very good if you took on that role and the european union was the leader in the fight against rare diseases on a global scale.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the republic of croatia, even without this problem, that is african swine fever, we have a problem with feral pigs approaching settlements, breeding with domestic pigs and, of course, causing great damage to agricultural areas. in the building time they even move to islands and in these narrow, special, biological spaces they do even more damage. with the emergence or threat of african swine fever, this danger dimension becomes even stronger, and i therefore support all the proposals mentioned in the questions and expressed by the commission with regard to better control of trade, financial assistance to farmers in need and, of course, the question of disproportionate trade bans on pigmeat, pigs and pigmeat products. i would add a few more proposals that are being considered in croatia, given that the czech republic, romania and hungary are countries where the existence of swine fever has been confirmed, and because of the mobility of feral pigs, this danger, of course, also exists for neighbouring countries. so i suggest that a little more attention be paid to the education of those who come into contact with wild boars, especially hunters when hunting and feeding wild boars, better education of those who also come into contact with wild boars, and equally it would be good and better to observe the hygiene, health, veterinary rules for people who come into contact with wild boars. so this is a serious problem. we need to work to eliminate this disease in the countries where it exists and i thank the committee on agriculture and rural development and mr okserski for launching this initiative.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i have a very specific proposal. i think it is time to establish a real european headquarters to combat african swine fever, but not just a european headquarters. you have to arrange national headquarters with the member states, arrange regional and local headquarters because the wild boars in germany will not be dealt with by the government in berlin, but by someone in the municipality, mr. deßa. as i say to you in my community in grozny, give the hunters the opportunity to solve the problem, we will solve the problem. you cannot solve it, mr commissioner, at european level, the problem starts somewhere in a forest, in a pig farm, and that is where we must solve the problem. we need verticals, from brussels to the smallest municipality in the european union. that way, we can suppress what's bothering us today. we also need to do this with some countries, our neighbors who are not yet members of the european union and that is in the balkans and, of course, ukraine and moldova. i think that's the way we can solve this problem.
