on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are at a turning point. a recent internal report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), leaked by the tageszeitung today, must finally open our eyes. we are at the last moment to save the paris agreement. we have to heavily scale up our efforts; otherwise we can say goodbye to all the targets and goals of the paris agreement. according to the ipcc report, we run the risk of undergoing 1.5° in climate change as early as 2040, instead of the end of the century. energy efficiency is the best way to take cost-effective steps to avoid that. but for this we need real action. we greens see the necessity of an even more ambitious energy efficiency directive, but we are open to some compromises to act together in this house. we have tabled our proposals as amendments in plenary, but there is no way to take ourselves and the paris agreement seriously beyond that level. we cannot support adjustment mechanisms with unpredictable outcomes. finally, history will look at and judge us. we must stop all hypocritical talk and walk the walk. that is what the climate needs, that is what the economy wants and finally, that is what the people wish from us.
it's a two-card draw. thank you so much for the opportunity. mr. president, i have to ask you... mr. representative, i have to ask you to leave. although i think i can get the numbers right here of what kind of reductions we want in different countries and areas of europe, but also in those regions - you mentioned the rural areas - where the livelihood is a problem, i think they're not going to be very concerned about energy efficiency, because poorer people are going to buy the cheaper products. in fact, this vote doesn't even cover used products. i understand all that is being said here, but i would like to know your opinion, namely, do you see any solution to these problems other than communication campaigns and education?
mr president our combined agenda is 'clean energy' and the goal is to deliver on the paris climate agreement. at the same time, we want to require member states to increase their production and use of renewable energy. and we forget that nuclear energy is also clean energy in terms of carbon emissions. the illusion here is to build as many wind farms as possible, solar farms, create jobs, end energy poverty. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. we want to reduce energy poverty with the most expensive energy, renewable energy. germany paid eur 25,5 billion in 2016 to support this. you have to set realistic goals.
madam president, please. the macro-regional strategies have been created with the important aim of solving common problems affecting individual macro-regions through cross-border cooperation, thereby accelerating territorial, economic and social cohesion, which is one of the eu's fundamental objectives. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the danube strategy in the central and eastern european region, which includes three countries from the western balkans region that are seeking to join the european union. the danube strategy is an excellent opportunity for serbia, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina to engage with nine eu member states in identifying regional problems and potentials and in the practical implementation of priorities. this is why i support the maintenance and financing of macro-regional strategies beyond 2020 and i also propose that we allow them to become more effective.
in writing. currently, 19 member states and 8 non-eu countries cooperate under the four macro-regional strategies of the union, with some member states participating in more than one macro-regional strategy. while macro-regional strategies are based on the 'three genders' principle and therefore do not receive separate eu funding, they have a huge added value, as they enhance cooperation between member states through cross-border cooperation with the aim of improving the economic development and social conditions of the countries concerned. the main lines of cohesion policy beyond 2020 have already been discussed, and it is important to start thinking together about the future role of macro-regional strategies. the process of globalisation has made even more clear the interdependence of individual countries and the need to find common solutions. political commitment and the degree to which member states and citizens feel that they are part of the strategy are key to the future of macro-regional strategies. this question is closely linked to the measurable results, the concrete, quantifiable objectives achieved by the macro-regional strategies. i believe that commitment, belief in the added value of macro-regional strategies, concrete results, the achievement of the objectives set can help effectively. i therefore consider it very important that, when thinking about the future of macro-regional strategies, we take account of the results achieved and evaluate existing macro-regional strategies before developing any new ones.
madam president, the european parliament is currently preparing a report which would state that the fundamental values of the union are in serious danger in hungary. the main reason is hungary's migration policy although preventing illegal immigration is an eu obligation and is based on laws passed by a two-thirds majority. but we hear little about those in power using independent state institutions against their political opponents. the state audit office has imposed financial sanctions on opposition parties. the punishment for the strongest, jobbik, is equivalent to nearly a year and a half of state aid. the decision is not substantiated by a substantive reasoning and there is no appeal. and let's add that the president of the state audit office has become the head of the supposedly independent organization from the representative of the ruling party. it is not the government's migration policy, but such procedures that destroy the rule of law in hungary.
mr. president, the eu has decided to open the second round of brexit negotiations. the complex question of 'how to move forward together with the 27 and the uk' must be addressed, taking into account the legitimate interests of both parties. at the same time, the question 'how to move on to the 27th?' must be answered. the departure of a member state should give decision-makers cause for reflection. analysis is not born, only statements. martin schulz is planning to create a united states of europe by 2025. is this the lesson of brexit, when the elections of recent years have shown that the peoples of europe reject the creation of a federal state and a model based on ever closer union? we cannot bury our heads in the sand. we need a fundamental reform of the european union. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that's a two-card answer. i agree with what you said, but i don't know why you asked me that question. i'm talking about the need for a fair settlement. so when i, as the hungarian representative, represent the interests of the eu27, i have to be aware that if we do not want to respect the legitimate british demands, then there will be no agreement and there will be a departure that is not backed by a treaty. so it is quite clear that we can represent the interests of the 27 by taking into account the legitimate, fair british demands.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for this opportunity, mr president and mr representative. i actually noticed that you used the word 'appropriate' in the context of the european defence union. does this need, in your view, budgetary resources within the current limits or far beyond the current limits?
mr president, 450 years ago, in 1568, in transylvania – currently part of romania –freedom of conscience and religion were included in law on a global scale for the first time, and are today one of europe’s fundamental values. in sharp contrast with the religious tolerance proclaimed at that time, romanian prime minister mihai tudose last week threatened with hanging those hungarians who have initiated romanian—hungarian dialogue on autonomy for minorities and who dared to fly the secular hungarian flag. we welcome with satisfaction the news that the romanian head of government handed in his resignation yesterday. we request, however, that all political leaders and parties of romania, as well as the institutions and leaders of the european union, publicly condemn this xenophobic and intimidating hate speech against minorities, which is almost unheard of in europe and is reminiscent of nazi and communist times.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iran (2018/2510(rsp)).
in writing. i was pleased to note that the european perspective of the western balkans region is one of the priorities of the bulgarian presidency's programme. the year 2018 can be the year of a revival of the tired policy of enlargement. the geostrategic importance of the region has led to a number of global power centres seeking to gain influence in the western balkans. the eu must not allow this. we need coherent political messages and tangible results. these are not only the responsibility of the candidate countries, but also of the european union. hungary is a committed supporter of the eu's enlargement to the western balkans. i hope that the bulgarian presidency and bulgaria, as one of the countries of the region, will bring new energy to the enlargement policy. in this, hungary can count on the support of the hungarian delegation of the european parliament's people's party. i also ask the presidency to speed up the process of opening chapters for serbia, as the 2025 accession deadline set by president juncker is difficult to meet at the current pace.
in writing. the biggest challenge facing the bulgarian presidency is to deal with the issue of migration. it must not lead to further division between member states, migrants must not be distributed in europe according to mandatory resettlement quotas. the will of an increasing number of european citizens must be taken into account in the context of illegal migration: we must be able to protect our external borders. it's our first responsibility. the millions spent on external border protection must also be included in the concept of solidarity on the part of hungary. the real refugees outside the eu must be separated from the tens of thousands of migrants, and the world needs to be helped where it is in trouble, not brought into europe. according to surveys published by eurobarometer, 82% of respondents believe that the european union needs to take a more decisive action against terrorism. the european travel information and authorisation system (etias), now in the pipeline, will address these concerns and make a major contribution to the fight against terrorism and illegal migration, thereby enhancing the security of european citizens. i am glad that an interim agreement was reached with the estonian presidency in december and i hope that the bulgarian presidency will be able to finally close the file.
in writing. i am pleased to hear that the bulgarian presidency's programme gives high priority to further developing energy infrastructure, including the necessary gas infrastructure. those who are concerned with this issue know well that energy security has been a topic for many years and that not all projects that could guarantee adequate gas security have been completed. this is the case in central and eastern europe, where the dependence is currently the largest, but the construction of gas pipelines and lng terminals is still lacking. unfortunately, in my committee in the committee on industry, research and energy there has recently been a trend to question whether fossil infrastructure projects are needed in the list of projects of common interest (pci list). it is not enough to emphasize that while renewable energy may be the future, it does not answer the questions of today and tomorrow. gas diversification is needed; a country cannot switch its heating system overnight. in this context, i welcome the fact that the development of gas infrastructure is a priority in the presidency's programme.
mr president i voted in favour of the renewable energy report, which is an integral part of the clean energy package. unfortunately, in the biofuels sections, palm oil and first generation biofuels have been mixed together in several cases. on these points, i have consistently voted to eliminate misunderstandings. i think it's important that the proposal included a requirement that we would prohibit the taxation, the penalty of energy self-sufficiency. this could reverse the senseless practice initiated by the hungarian government, whereby renewable energy production is punished by extra taxes. i would like to mention the taxation of solar panels as a specific example. it must be understood by all governments that renewable energy production, smart solutions and diversification must be encouraged and not hindered.
mr president i welcome the clean energy for all package, which also takes into account important issues such as energy poverty and climate policy aspects. when it comes to energy efficiency, there's no question that we need to put a lot of emphasis on smart or smart technologies, processes. i therefore welcome the amendments to this effect, since this is the only way to spend the more than eur 100 billion of investment estimated by the commission. i would like to point out that in regions where there are problems with living standards, people are not primarily concerned with energy efficiency, because buying cheaper products is a priority for obvious reasons. of course, i understand that innovation has to be paid for, but i also urge solutions in this area.
mr president i welcome the clean energy for all package, especially its report on the european union. i support joint efforts, as this is also an issue that can only be successfully tackled together. member states often forget that the concept of a free energy mix in the member states is still common, and that energy security, solidarity, energy efficiency, energy savings, interconnection of energy networks and increasing the share of new and renewable energy sources must be taken into account. the report also states that costly, highly polluting investments should be avoided and that investments in fossil-free energy should be made secure and predictable. i think it is important that nuclear energy should not be counted as renewable energy in the member states, because nuclear energy is not a clean and safe energy. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president the influence of russian propaganda has grown alarmingly. strengthening the eu's anti-propaganda campaigns is extremely important and a good thing, but it is of no use in countries where governments themselves are the main consumers and distributors of russian propaganda. the hungarian government has consistently sided with russia in recent years, not only in an economic and political alliance with vladimir putin's russia, but also playing a significant role in spreading russian fake news and propaganda in hungary and abroad. russian fake news channels sputnik, russia today are not only on official channels, but also on online platforms. thousands of trolls are helping spread fake news, propaganda. in hungary and some other member states, they receive significant support from the state and public service media, which should be a forum for politically independent, unbiased, real news. the european union cannot therefore continue to stand by silently in countries where the state media and the government itself are the main consumers and distributors of this false news. this requires the eu to recognise that it is inevitable to support independent, free and impartial media, both legally and financially.
in writing. i consider this debate to be important because, following our resolution of november 2016, it reflects the recognition that the situation has only worsened in the period since then, with putin's expansionist policy of seeking to disrupt the eu's internal cohesion and atlantic federalism with a wide range of open provocations, veiled threats, fake news and attempts at division now becoming one of the most dangerous external challenges to the security of the european union. i welcome the commission's intention to counter russian propaganda by providing member states with substantially increased community resources and modern, concrete action plans. with its targeted fake news and many other tools of the dirty hybrid war, moscow is attacking the security, values and democratic rule of law of the whole of europe: it is occupying the territory of a sovereign country, fomenting wars at its borders, provoking eu member states elsewhere, trying to manipulate our internal relations, our press. we've learned that putin doesn't understand the language of common sense and diplomacy, only power. this requires joint eu action, with different instruments for each member state, but with the strength of a democratic community, appropriate to the gravity of the situation. at the same time, as a hungarian politician, i regret to see that the weakest link in this eu unity is hungary, or more precisely the policy of the orbán government: the leadership of a member state, for personal political calculation, is betraying the security of its country and its allies, betraying its economic, financial and energy supply interests in the service of putin's goals. hungary cannot become a bridgehead for moscow within the eu!
madam president, please. i was shocked to hear some people say that this youth initiative should be stopped and that the issues involved should be dealt with by the member states. i tried to ask these people, what is it that is preventing member countries from doing anything to solve or alleviate the problem of youth unemployment in their own countries? but what i also took away from today's discussion is that we're really just trying to focus on global numbers. what's the youth unemployment rate? but we didn't take into account that it's even geographically different within individual countries. this youth unemployment is hitting people primarily in the countryside, in the villages. i think this initiative should be extended to the smart villages model to the small-scale settlements, the small villages, where young people have essentially zero chance of anything.
in writing. the 2008-2009 financial and economic crisis affected hungary the most in the eu, alongside greece, and this led to a dramatic increase in youth unemployment. by 2012, the youth unemployment rate was over 28%, 5% higher than the eu average. by 2017, this figure had been reduced to 10,5% in hungary thanks to effective domestic programmes and the efficient use of eu funds matching them. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the draft report thus makes it clear that hungary is one of the few countries, along with austria, the czech republic, the netherlands, malta and germany, where youth unemployment is below 11%. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i have recommended, in the context of the work of the committee on employment and social affairs, that the resources allocated to the member states which have been underperforming for a longer period be reviewed, as it is unacceptable that if someone, like our country, improves much more and faster than others, they should lose resources while other member states with weaker performance continue to receive aid.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility, and on the illegal removal of children (com (2016) 0411 c8-0322/2016 2016/0190 (cns))
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 18 january 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled, prepared by max andersson on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (12629/2017 - c8-0375/2017 - 2014/0297 ((nle)) (a8-0400/2017).
in writing. the main objective of the european year is to celebrate europe's cultural heritage as a common legacy of centuries of history that binds the member states and the peoples of europe together. the initiative aims to help as many people as possible discover and learn about europe's cultural heritage. it is important that we cherish and preserve our cultural heritage and pass it on to future generations. that is why, in this european year, we would like to address young people in particular. in 2018, a number of cultural events will take place at european, national, regional and local levels. throughout the year, citizens can engage in events and projects that promote and showcase european cultural heritage and values, reinforcing a sense of european identity. the professional programme of the european year of cultural heritage will start in hungary with the opening conference on 22 january, where the strategy for the implementation of the year in hungary, as well as the restoration projects of state monuments and the objectives of the government for the preservation of values will be presented. hungary considers the protection and preservation of its national built and natural heritage to be a priority task, whether it is a site of national importance or a world heritage site. i wish you all the best in this year's celebration.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, under president xi jinping, the human rights situation has deteriorated dramatically. members of the tibetan and uighur minority communities are persecuted, tortured and imprisoned under the pretext of separatism. chinese oppositionists, on the other hand, are being treated similarly on charges of subversion of state power. false accusations disguised as lawful are used to suppress the oppressed chinese society, including minorities. the chinese government is using the well-known methods of totalitarian communist regimes to violate the basic human rights guaranteed by its own constitution. moreover, in defiance of its international democratic commitments, it is now seeking to extend its illegal practices to taiwan. in light of all this, we demand that the chinese government immediately and unconditionally release all detainees, including ilham tohti, the prominent uighur intellectual and the flag bearer for peaceful inter-ethnic dialogue.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate, which shows the high interest and need for a deep reform of our vat system. as i mentioned in my introduction, since the first package of reforms in 2016 the commission has gradually adopted proposals that would allow a fundamental reform of the vat system in the eu. but there is no time to rest on our laurels; we still have a long way to go. first of all on the commission’s side. before this summer the commission will come forward with two legislative proposals: one introducing changes in the vat directive, which will contain detailed arrangements putting into practice the cornerstone of the definitive regime adopted in october 2017, while the second one will address the issue of vat fraud in online sales. secondly on parliament’s and member states’ side. the debate is now in your hands. at the highest political level we need an ambition to deliver the real reform of our vat system, to create a level playing field for eu companies, to support smes so that they can grow and benefit from the opportunities of the single market, and to put an end to cross—border fraud which steals public revenues and finances criminal organisations or possibly even terrorist activities. on vat reduced rates; we are proposing to give more freedom to member states in a framed manner, so i will come back to some of the concerns which were raised in this regard. indeed it is very important that this does not lead to revenue erosion or distortion of competition. that is why we have put safeguards in place in terms of the minimum effective vat rate, in terms of negative lists which mainly concern high value, easily portable goods, which are the ones probably most prone to being moved across borders, and this proposal would only come into force once a definitive vat system will be in place. we are, of course, are ready to discuss with co—legislators whether those safeguards are sufficient and what is the best way to address potential risks of revenue erosion. now as regards the broader issue, i think we share the need to reform the current vat system in the interest of member states, of eu businesses – mainly smes – and of european citizens. so with your support we are confident that progress can be achieved in the coming months.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european commission has finally put a package on the table of the legislators that would completely reform the eu's vat rules in a coherent system. it's time to eliminate the possibility of vat fraud. currently, there are 28 tax systems in europe, with different rules and loopholes. the payment of vat on the free movement of goods and services in the common market and the lack of transparency of the rules pose a major problem, in particular because of the lack of cooperation between member states. the amount of vat not paid in the eu member states is around eur 150 billion a year, which means that the member states' budgets are missing more than the eu's entire annual budget. of this, 50 billion euros are linked to vat fraud, such as the cross-border roundabout vat fraud known in hungary. the system proposed by the commission reverses the rules on the payment and recovery of vat. if the eu accepts the proposal, crossborder vat payments and recoveries will also have to be treated as if they were within the borders. the difference would be cleared between member states, thus simplifying administration. this requires much greater cooperation between member states. there is no doubt that the system will win the support of parliament. we also call on the council to adopt the bill as soon as possible, saving the budget billions.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, there is a very strong competition in the field of clean energy between european and other global economic powers to take the further steps needed to achieve the paris climate targets, and it is therefore essential to support research and development in clean energy. the largest proportion of innovation is carried out by smes, but research and development of new technologies requires a very high level of investment and involves a high level of risk, and one of the eu's tasks is to reduce this level of risk. we must not forget the less developed regions. it is well known that most of the technology developments are concentrated in the most advanced regions of the eu, and that other regions are slow to import new developments. therefore, i consider it a second important task to ensure the fastest possible technological transition, thus also contributing to territorial cohesion. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the part of the report that states that reducing emissions is a national interest for hungary and the hungarian people's party delegation, which is related to the withdrawal of energy subsidies. thank you for listening.
madam president, please. at a european parliament conference in the autumn of 2016, we discussed the modern abduction of europe in the metaphorical sense of the ancient mythological story. in the 20th century, totalitarian regimes, namely, soviet communism, did just that. in other ways and by other means, europe is also being hijacked by the globalist powers that threaten the very existence of our continent through the systematic support, promotion and expansion of migration - the current migration of peoples. our position is that hungary must remain a hungarian country. in this sense, the union and its member states must defend their own european and national identities against any attempt by a world power.
mr president the key question for the future of europe is whether we should continue on the lisbon path towards ever-stronger integration, or whether we need cooperation that better preserves the autonomy of the member states. we have to answer that in the light of brexit. syed kamall, leader of the british conservatives in the european parliament, said: "the departure of a member state should make everyone think deeply about the state of the european union. the problem is that there is too much centralisation of powers in favour of the institutions, and citizens of the member states do not feel that the european union is theirs. in recent years, referendums and elections have demonstrated that the people of europe reject the federal model. the union must respect its member states and become a community of cooperating nations. martin schulz, on the other hand, has said that a united states of europe must be created by 2025, and that those countries that do not want to do so must leave. a few words about who the pro-europeans are? those who are on the lisbon path are blaming themselves for being pro-european, those who represent others are anti-european. manfred weber gave a chilling example of this in his present speech. he described those who want greater autonomy for the member states as dangerous nationalists and summed up our position in the following statement: 'we say to hell with europe'. where do you get the nerve to accuse us of this because we're going in a different direction? mr president, do you think it is possible to have a constructive debate in this parliament about the future of the european union when the leader of the largest group in the european parliament is so exclusive in his treatment of those who disagree with him?
mr president dear prime minister, dear andrei, i have to tell you something. i find your commitment to the cause of european integration convincing and, knowing you well, authentic. however, our common future, the success of the european project, is seriously threatened if one or more member states undermine the foundations, pursue anti-eu, anti-democratic policies or abuse the idea of solidarity, and betray our common security interests. so my question is: as an important neighbour and ally of hungary, and as an important leader of the european people's party, what do you want and can you do to stop viktor orbán's anti-european streak?
madam president, please. i voted in favor of the zoning restrictions report. the so-called geoblocking and other forms of discrimination based on residence or establishment within the internal market have been a clear obstacle to the completion of the internal market, including the digital single market. it is essential to eliminate these practices, as while the online sale of goods and services within the internal market is growing dynamically, the number of cross-border online purchases is very low. several studies have shown that the removal of unjustified territorial restrictions would reduce prices and contribute to economic growth. i also welcome the fact that the report recognises that there are businesses, especially smes, which, because of their size and capabilities, do not want to target cross-border customers. it is therefore important to emphasise that traders who do not target cross-border markets are not obliged to transport goods or services outside the territory.
madam president, please. on 15 july 2015, the european commission published its proposal for the fourth phase of the ets. the proposal aims to achieve the eu's greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 40% by 2030, while ensuring that european industry is protected against the risk of carbon leakage and supporting the innovation and modernisation of europe's industrial and energy sectors in the decade after 2020. i support the rapporteur's proposal as part of the 2030 climate and energy package. member states participating in the paris agreement have committed to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2 degrees celsius in order to combat the worst effects of climate change.
madam president, please. i also voted in favour of the report on accelerating clean energy innovation. the report describes how the ways in which energy is produced, transmitted, stored and used have undergone a major transformation. however, the clean energy report does not even mention nuclear energy, because while it emits less greenhouse gases than coal-fired power generation, the use of nuclear energy also poses significant risks.
mr president at the beginning of the current legislative cycle, president jean-claude juncker referred to the uncertain future of the integration of the western balkan countries. this has been a major setback for the progress and performance of these countries. it is good that the recent decision on the eu's enlargement strategy for the western balkans is intended to give a new impetus to the tired and stalled integration process. this is facilitated by the fact that the new bulgarian presidency will make accession to its western balkan neighbours a priority. hungary and the visegrad four, as well as romania, are also committed to this. it is an important step forward that during his last visit to belgrade, president antonio tajani made the accession of serbia and montenegro by 2025 a likely outcome. further concrete steps and results are needed. for macedonia and albania, the date of the opening of accession negotiations should be fixed. bosnia and herzegovina should be included in the list of candidate countries. the kosovo question must be settled once and for all. however, there are two sides to every story. the western balkan countries must also fully fulfil their european commitments. the integration of the countries of this region is also of common european interest in terms of eu border protection and closure of the balkan migration route.
mr president, in 2014, at the beginning of our parliamentary term, it seemed like enlargement fatigue was irreversible. however, the migration crisis and the security challenges pointed up the fact that europe needs the western balkans and that the eu cannot have white holes on its map. it also became clear that we simply cannot wait for all major political issues to be settled before we endeavour to have further enlargement. therefore, i sincerely welcome the commission strategy and the action plan as documents which will officially and permanently put western balkan enlargement back on the european agenda. additionally, i would call on the commission to draw up annual reports concerning the implementation of this strategy and the action plan, which should be discussed here in plenary. that would give enlargement a more prominent presence, supplementing the usual progress reports for the countries. all this could provide a strong political backdrop for the difficult work that lies ahead, on all sides, in order to welcome the front—runner countries, serbia and montenegro, as full members in 2025. hungary and we in the hungarian epp group delegation here in parliament will do our best to help.
in writing. the integration of the western balkan countries remains a priority for hungary, which is why i myself support accelerating enlargement. the only way to stop illegal migration is with the help of these balkan countries, and the countries of the region have legitimate expectations from the european union. illegal immigration has brought a high level of terrorism and social tension to the union and has proven to be something that must be stopped at the eu's external borders. the commission's enlargement strategy presented today re-emphasises the strategic role of the region. increasing integration would go a long way towards reducing tensions within the region. but i see not only political and security risks in delaying enlargement, but also economic risks. the commission also notes that shaping the future of the region is in the union's own political, security and economic interest. and by 2025, montenegro and serbia could be ready to join!
please try to keep to the time limits, we're 15 minutes late.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i believe that when we talk about the current financial plight of unrwa we need to talk about two things simultaneously. firstly, we need to talk about the requirements of international humanitarian law. for all those who value and adhere to this part of international law, supporting this agency is an obligation, not a question of choice. unfortunately, not all international actors subscribe to this view, and to be absolutely clear about it, the european union is one of those, however, which does take it seriously, we, european union and its member states combined, are the largest donor to unrwa. so we shoulder a fair share from the costs. however, this proud place comes with responsibilities. we need to look further, we need to address the major large-scale political question as well. we need to engage with the peace process, because otherwise unrwa will remain in place indefinitely, and that is the worst possible outcome.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i congratulate the two co—rapporteurs. i think they have done an excellent job on a very difficult file. i, for my part, want to focus on the transnational list. i have made no secret of my view that, as far as i am concerned, the transnational list is a bad idea. here are my reasons. there are several. first, the transnational list (tnl) is based on an idea that out there somewhere there is a european demos just waiting to be represented, and that the tnl will do just this. this is an error. there is no european demos and to claim the contrary is an illusion. have european citizens ever been asked if they want to be represented by a transnational list? again, the answer is no. so, in real terms, what we are looking at is a top—down, elite—driven project, presumably starting from the belief that, if the transnational list comes into being, so will the european demos. why on earth should it? it is a fatal assumption that the tnl will generate a supranational european consciousness. if anything, those putatively elected on the tnl will be remote from the electorate, and that will not do the reputation of this parliament any good. it’s magical thinking that the transnational list will somehow produce the european demos. if the transnational list does happen, then this parliament will have 27 free—floating meps answerable to none. they will have power without an electorate, they will have power without accountability and power without responsibility. so where are the checks and balances? i shouldn’t have to say that power without responsibility is the high road to arbitrariness. that, if you ask me, is about as undemocratic as it gets.
in writing. brexit has created a situation of decision-making for the future composition of the european institutions, in our case the european parliament, which also offers new opportunities to make our work more efficient and more legal. i think it is important that the ep takes control of this corrective process, from legislation to implementation, and i welcome the intention of the report to do so. the current proposals are a practical compromise, and their implementation will serve to complete the democratic functioning of the european institutions and the union as a whole, and to strengthen the role of the ep. i am also in favour of reducing the number of meps and of a better application of degressive proportionality in the representation of each member state, together with the fact that my own member state would not be given an extra seat. it is important, however, that the change does not represent a reduction for any member state, a principle which i believe should apply to any future change. the most significant element of the package of proposals for the further development of european integration is, for me, the pan-european list, the direct european representation and the perspective of the common list. contrary to sceptical opinions, i believe that they can be introduced during the next parliamentary term, and that the necessary legal basis can be created in time if there is sufficient political will. in addition to strengthening the democratic content and the citizenship of eu decision-making, such a historic change could also help to counter the growing nationalist pressure and anti-europeanism in several eu member states - and, unfortunately, perhaps most of all in my own country.
madam president, please. after brexit, 73 seats will be vacant in the european parliament, and the simplest solution to this would have been to have that many fewer meps after 2019. this will also result in significant financial savings and will allow the representatives of the new member states to be given the appropriate mandate following possible enlargement, for example to the western balkans. what i consider positive about this final report is that the amendments have eliminated the possibility of using the vacant mandates on a common pan-european list. let us remember that the united states of europe has not yet been formed, and we hope that it will not, and that such a solution, far removed from the voters, this transnational list, would have been totally unacceptable. in view of all this, i abstained from the final vote.
madam president, please. in this chamber, there is a lot of talk about migration, about external migration, about immigration into europe, but very little about internal migration, about the flow of labour from the eastern half of the union to the western half. prices are evenly spread across the two halves of the union, but wages are not. and this is what jobbik for hungary recognised when it launched a european citizens' initiative, which the commission welcomed, to start closing this wage gap, because if it doesn't, it could lead to the break-up of the whole union. of course, results cannot be obtained overnight. but when we think about the budget for the next seven years, it would be important to direct resources, cohesion funds, to these countries to support businesses that create real added value, that can create quality jobs and contribute to reducing this wage gap.
in writing. instead of pursuing austerity and gdp-based growth, it is time to adopt a new approach. so a recent study by the swiss-based independent world economic forum looked at how inclusive a country's economic growth is, and a whole new ranking was published using the un's inclusive development index (idi). it basically shows whether the vast majority of society has been able to take a step forward, or whether only a small elite has been able to benefit from economic growth. on this basis, hungary ranks second among emerging countries, thus ranking among the top 20 percent of 74 countries in terms of gdp per capita, labor productivity, and life expectancy in health. in fact, it's in the top five of 74 countries in terms of net income inequality, poverty rate, wealth inequality and median income. and if you look at the poverty-related values, the hungarian gini coefficient was 28.2 percent in 2016. this places hungary among the most equal societies at european level, far ahead of the countries in the region. in terms of the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation, we see an improvement of more than 40 percent between 2012 and 2016, falling below the pre-2010 crisis level. the higher minimum wage from 2018 may further improve this trend.
in writing. in recent decades, social inequalities have also increased dramatically in the member states of the european union. today, almost 120 million people in europe, including millions of children, live in poverty, at risk of poverty. the working poor, the number of citizens who work but cannot make a living from their earnings, are growing. but social inequality, poverty, is not simply a matter of material things, it is synonymous with freedom, with lack of opportunity, with exclusion, with loss of human dignity, with fear of the future. it is the ultimate and fatal split in society. we also know that the inequalities in the world today cannot be fixed simply by raising wages or by social benefits. the main cause of inequality is the disparity in access to knowledge, the disparity in the possibilities of acquiring knowledge. those who are unable to acquire the competences and skills required by today's knowledge-based society, the changed world of work, are necessarily on the periphery of society. and if social inequalities are reproduced more and more, that is a serious threat to democracy. that's why you can't keep thinking in the usual categories. above all, we need an inclusive economy and society, digital education, and a strong and effective social network. it's not just about distributing welfare, it's about building roads that create an opportunity for people in poverty to break out.
mr president i welcome the inclusion of the rule of law in romania on the agenda. it was time for the european commission to break with its double standards and, with partisan bias, to take legal action not only against hungary and poland for violating the rule of law, but also against the socialist government of romania. at a press conference in brussels with president jean claude juncker, president klaus iohannis spoke out strongly in favour of the independence of the romanian judiciary. earlier, at the inauguration of the new romanian prime minister, viorica dǎncilǎ, the head of state also stated that the violation of the independence of the judiciary is unacceptable and the message of the hundreds of thousands of people who have been demonstrating in the streets in defence of the rule of law for a year should not be ignored. the judiciary must not be subordinated to politics, namely to the bone-dead corrupt, post-communist socialist party! the cornerstone of the rule of law is that no one is above the law. liviu dragnea is a convicted criminal and an oligarchic party leader under criminal investigation! the hungarian community in romania, deprived of its rights, stands together with the romanian majority society in support of the restoration of the rule of law, in accordance with the requirements of european democracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, without a strong and well-functioning civil society, there is no democracy. civil society organisations can be very effective in helping to address social problems, while creating opportunities for citizens to take political action. recently, we have seen that in illiberal democracies, especially in hungary and poland, governments have been brutally trying to prevent the functioning of ngos. yes, they are branded as agents of foreign powers, taxed to make their work financially impossible, have laws passed against them, and are even intimidated by the use of intelligence tools. i am convinced that the european parliament has a fundamental political and moral responsibility to speak out forcefully against this dictatorial political practice. anyone who opposes civil society organisations, who tries to obstruct their work, is deliberately opposing the fundamental values of the european union, democracy and the rule of law. but it's not just words that are needed. it's actions. i therefore propose that the european union immediately establishes a democracy fund, to which ngos operating in the member states of the european union can directly apply for financial support, not only for projects but also to ensure the conditions for long-term operation. if we don't support civil society, the rule of law and democracy itself will be in danger.
on behalf of the verts/ale group mr. president, honourable officer, colleagues, four years ago, shocking images were published in the hungarian and international press. police raids on offices of civil society organisations, abduction of civil leaders in an eu member state. the hungarian government's war against civil society has been going on for four years. it continued last year with the civil law, which is now being litigated in the european court of justice. but the hungarian government is unable to stop. recently, a new bill was introduced that no longer even tries to preserve the appearance of rule of law norms and raises the stigma of ngos to an even higher level, legal and practical retaliation against ngos. the intimidation of the civilian sector is not a hungarian invention. we see it from budapest to moscow and from ankara to warsaw. but it's not just a hungarian thing. europe will be torn apart if we cannot stop the autocratic aspirations and systematic threats within the borders of the european union that are oppressing civil society.
in writing. in hungary, ngos are highly respected, as these voluntary organisations of citizens are important components of socio-cultural life, which through their activities contribute to the effective management of social problems and the satisfaction of community needs. in hungary, more than 60 000 ngos are functioning smoothly, but less than 1% of ngos are seeking political influence. they do all this without any democratic accountability, so the outrage of these organisations across europe can only be interpreted as a false problem. ngos play an important role in shaping public opinion and it is therefore in the public interest to make clear to society as a whole what interests they represent. transparency of ngos receiving funding from abroad is a very important rule of law requirement that applies to everyone. ngos promoting transparency are expected to meet the transparency requirements for themselves and to disclose their financial contributions. this is a completely legitimate expectation from civil society organizations and it's not unprecedented in the world. the letters of denunciation flooding the european parliament are being distributed by the same few pro-migration ngos that have been openly or covertly attacking the hungarian government for years.
madam president, the clock reversal disrupts the balance between the human body clock and the external clock, and it takes between 4 and 14 days to restore it, depending on the individual. the health effects are clear and well documented. the energy gains and benefits are diminishing in proportion. there have been initiatives in several countries to abolish the switchover. the reason why the majority of the hungarian parliament does not support our initiative for the time being is that it expects european union harmonisation. this is our chance to start this. and another note: many of the people here who have talked about the benefits of daylight saving time think that the use of daylight saving time will preserve winter. no, not at all. the security guard has indicated that she would prefer to maintain daylight saving time.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on 'child slavery in haiti' (2018/2562 ((rsp)).
mr president i am sorry to say that president tajani is leaving now, but i wanted to ask him and commissioner timmermans about the informal meeting of heads of state and government. one of the topics was the long-term budget of the european union, and although this is not a question that has been raised here, a question of such paramount importance for hungary and the visegrad countries, i would like to see this done instead, and i will put this. and this is it. according to the press, and especially on the proposal of mrs merkel, they want to withdraw cohesion funds, containment funds and possibly other funds from those member states that say no to mass migration, mass immigration. what's the truth in that? do they have a plan? we need to know this because hungary will hold elections on april 8, and the issue of migration is being trivialized, and those who say that the european union is pushing this issue are being treated as stupid and uninformed. he's been terrorizing us all along with all kinds of means. if we just look at the various reports from this session, we can see that, and there's this terrorizing with certain money. what's the truth in that? or have you been let off the hook? or they don't talk about it because they're afraid that it might influence the voters in hungary, because they would see that this is the most important priority for you, they won't give up, they want to force hungary and the visegrad countries to their knees by all means. i'm waiting for mr. tajani's answer, if possible, but i'm also waiting for mr. timmermans' answer.
mr president my dear officer jourová. i'm very glad you've put your earpiece on, because i want to talk to you and ask you, as a lawyer, and i'm asking you as a colleague, what is the most serious violation? the beating of nearly a thousand people to death by the police while exercising their right to vote, see spain and catalonia, spanish police, or the regulation of the operation of civil society organisations supported from abroad? i would ask you to point your finger at one or two of them, so that it is clear to the citizens of the european union which of them is the greater offence. would you mind showing me? i am surprised that he refuses to do so, because in his opening speech he spoke about the hungarian 'violation' of the law on this subject, not about the catalan one. it's time to stop not only transphobia, homophobia, xenophobia, but also hungarianophobia, hungarophobia. we've had enough, stop it now... (the president withdrew his speech)
in writing. the annual report on fundamental rights states that there is no common definition of the rule of law and the fundamental values of the european union, but calls on the member states to take this into account, urges the application of the article 7 procedure and calls for the introduction of the rule of law mechanism. this is in itself a contradiction and thus distorts the political judgment of some member states. in my view, the report on fundamental rights in its present form contributes to the measurement of the rule of law by reference to the position taken by a member state on migration, and this is totally unacceptable. it also covers a number of areas which clearly fall within the competence of the member states and therefore there is no need for a similar report.
in writing. the annual reports give an increasingly unfavourable picture of the situation of human rights, fundamental rights and the rule of law in the european union. there is no significant improvement in the situation of europe's largest minority, the roma. there is still a lot of unacceptable discrimination against lgbt people in almost every part of europe. the authorities also frequently commit serious human rights violations among asylum seekers. the most worrying phenomenon, however, is the gradual reduction in the scope for civil society. the developments in hungary are particularly scandalous. where the government's bill "stop soros" is trying to impede the functioning of civil society, especially organizations that help refugees, by the most brutal means. the hungarian government considers refugees, and therefore the organizations that help them, to be a national security risk. it therefore requires a special license from the minister of the interior, imposes a special tax on financial contributions from abroad and even intends to control them by means of intelligence. the european parliament has a fundamental duty to protect civil society organisations, without which there is no democracy. we need to stand with them and create a democracy fund that supports these ngos directly and in the long term. we must firmly reject any political initiative which seeks to restrict or prevent the functioning of civil society for petty political reasons.
mr president i think with sympathy of those poor young people in hungary, and also of the elderly, who are standing up against corruption in hungary, waving the flag of the european union. it's a pity, because we see what's happening in the european union. now, they've been caught out, and there's been no dust in the machine, but this is an absolutely typical story. mr barroso, the former president of the european commission, has already established all his political contacts after his term of office has expired. it's going to goldman sachs, one of the companies, so to speak, that is eminently responsible for ruining the lives of millions of european citizens. then he's back to lobbying his eu friends for goldman sachs. that's how it works, please, so let's not wave the european union flag if we want to get rid of corruption, because this is not the place to learn from. if we don't want corruption in hungary, that's fine, i hate it too, but we don't have to learn from the union.
the rapporteur. - mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your service. unfortunately, beekeeping is rarely mentioned in the council of ministers or in some meetings of the european parliament, although it is a very important sector. on the one hand, the sector is an integral part of european agriculture, providing a main or secondary income for more than 620 000 eu citizens. on the other hand, 84% of plant species and 76% of european food production depend on pollination by bees. the economic value of this production, estimated at €14.2 billion per year in the eu, is substantially higher than the value of the honey produced. unfortunately, there is not enough recognition of the importance of pollination in the eu, and this service is taken for granted, while in the us, for example, 2 billion euros are spent annually on artificial pollination. the main message of my report is therefore that beekeepers and bees must be at the heart of the eu's common agricultural policy. the future eu agricultural policy needs to raise the status and funding of beekeeping to a higher level than it is today. the biggest problem is the spread of counterfeit honey on the eu internal market. as a result, the purchase price of honey has now fallen to half of the 2014 prices. this puts european beekeepers in a hopeless position. honey is the third most counterfeited food product in the world, and we must fight against it not only to protect eu beekeepers, but also for consumer protection and even public health reasons. the results of the investigation carried out by the joint european research centre showed that 20% of the samples taken at the external border posts of the eu at the premises of importers were counterfeit honey. the fraudulent , mostly chinese , manufacturers try to cover up the traces of counterfeiting by filtering the honey with mould. these syrups are improved with high quality european honey by some traders and counterfeit honey is sold using the label 'mixture of eu and non-eu honey'. on behalf of the european parliament, i therefore call on the member states and the commission to bring the fraudulent mainly some chinese suppliers of honey and european honey traders to compliance. i made a number of suggestions in the report to achieve this. the cornerstone of the solution is to indicate on the labels, instead of the 'mixture of eu and non-eu honey' that facilitates fraud, the exact country or countries and the proportion of honey used in the final product, in the order of the proportion of honey in the final product. secondly, certain pesticide substances pose a risk to the health of bees in a number of cases. it is essential that the european parliament adopts a single, scientifically based and firm position on this. in addition, various animal diseases cause serious problems for beekeepers. the worst of these, varroa, has not yet been eradicated, as there are no drugs that can effectively kill the parasite. i therefore ask the commission to involve all interested pharmaceutical companies in research and to create a common it platform to share best practice and medicines with stakeholders. thirdly, the eu support for beekeepers needs to be reconsidered. while the eu bee population increased by 48% between 2004 and 2016, the budget for national beekeeping programmes increased by only 12%, from €32 million to €36 million per year. that's only three thousandths of the cap budget! the union budget for the programmes should therefore be increased by one and a half times the current amount. this would amount to eur 54 million per year, which would still be less than 1% of the cap budget.
madam president, please. i would like to congratulate my compatriot, mr norbert erdős, on the report he has produced on this very important and beautiful report, which tells us almost everything there is to know about honey, bees and beekeeping. let me ask you if i understand correctly that if someone wants to be a responsible honey consumer, together with his family, then let's say in hungarian - hungary is one of the three main european honey producing countries - he gets the honey from the market or directly from the producer, so that the hungarian people can consume hungarian honey as much as possible. it may be that this is a nationalist or extremist label, but let me say this, and let me turn to the commissioner and ask him if i am correct in understanding that there is a lot of counterfeit honey coming into europe, especially from china, and that a lot of it is harmful to health. let me ask you, what exactly are you doing about this, if i'm not mistaken, organized crime? and i want to emphasize that the best way to avoid these harmful effects is to consume locally grown, local honey. i guess i did. i'm waiting for the reporter to confirm.
the rapporteur. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. allow me to thank the commissioner, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues in the house. 486 amendments have been tabled, that's extra, and of those 486, by the way, we were able to get 90 percent of them to compromise, there were only 36 separate votes, so there's really very, very broad, very broad support for this case. thank you all so much for your work. please allow me to repeat that without successful beekeepers and healthy bees, there will be no pollination and no honey in europe in the future, and we must therefore stand for a programme that guarantees the survival of bees and beekeepers. the text before you, drawn up by the beekeepers themselves and with the active participation of all the parliamentary groups, is based on a delicate balance between the interests of the political groups. the fight against counterfeiting, the effective and immediate protection of bees against chemicals that are genuinely harmful, the fight against bee diseases or the need for fairer eu support for beekeepers are all issues to which the eu's democratically determined and decisive response cannot be postponed any longer. one of these issues, pesticide substances, is one of the most pressing issues in the european parliament today. when making such decisions, equal weight should be given to protecting farmers, avoiding a decline in agricultural production and protecting the environment, habitats, native plants and animals. in the course of the preparation of the honey report, we have had long and arduous negotiations to arrive at a balanced and reasonable solution. pesticide active substances proven to be harmful to bee health should be prohibited immediately. and what is harmful, on a scientific basis, is for efsa to say! this solution was accepted by all the factions. i ask that we proceed with the amendments tabled on that basis. i'm counting on your full support when the honey report comes up for vote. please continue to support me in the future when i take action on behalf of european beekeepers and bees.
in writing. hungary is the third largest producer of honey in the union, and for some 20 000 hungarian beekeepers this sector is the main source of livelihood. 75% of hungarian honey is sold on the union market, but there is also a large amount of honey from outside the union (e.g. from china), a significant part of which is counterfeit. we therefore have a strong interest in combating counterfeiting, in protecting bees effectively against chemicals that are actually harmful, in providing adequate eu support for beekeepers, and in taking measures to combat bee diseases. the report by my colleague mr norbert erdős on the prospects and challenges facing the eu beekeeping sector is extremely timely. the introduction of a reliable monitoring and product labelling system at union level is necessary to protect hungarian beekeepers and the erdős norbert honey report is a decisive step in this direction.
madam president, please. in the european parliament yesterday, we discussed the future of eu-ukraine relations, ukraine's progress in reforms and european integration. i believe that ukraine's prospects are strongly influenced by democratic rights and freedoms, including the protection of minority rights, legal security and social peace. meanwhile, in the westernmost province of ukraine, the headquarters of the transcarpathian hungarian cultural association in ungvár was attacked for the second time in a month. an ied was planted, causing the lower level of the headquarters to burn to the ground. this can be seen as a direct threat and intimidation of transcarpathian hungarians, which the european union should not leave without saying. they must unequivocally condemn this act of terrorism and call on the ukrainian authorities to identify the perpetrator, the clients and the motives of the case as soon as possible. certain forces are increasingly working to disrupt order and peace in the western part of the country, to incite and provoke ethnic conflict, to which the eu must respond.
madam president, please. zeid raad al-husszein, the un high commissioner for human rights, has slandered prime minister viktor orbán with xenophobia and racism. yesterday, however, one of my interlocutors called the hungarians nationalists. i firmly reject these and similar unfounded accusations. a nationalist is one who violates the law, but a patriot is one who defends the law. viktor orbán is protecting his own nation and europe, so he is a good patriot and a good european. politicians who support the invasion of migrants, on the other hand, act at the expense of their own people and citizens. against the growing hungarian opposition to us, we, the hungarian minority living abroad, are also defending our own people, for example in ukraine, where on february 4th a nationalist terrorist attack hit the hungarian headquarters of our community. let us act as true patriots, and join forces in defence of europe and our peoples.
in writing. i welcome the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and congratulate the ep, and in particular the s&d group, which has been fighting for a long time to restore european tax justice and which has already achieved a number of major results in this field. aggressive tax planning cannot be tackled by the member states alone. community action is needed to close the loophole and remove the unfair tax burden from the shoulders of honest taxpayers, citizens and smes. the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities, increased transparency, and a stronger crackdown on intermediaries assisting in tax avoidance schemes will help to achieve this. at the same time, i would like to remind you that the legislation starts from the premise of working with independent tax authorities operating in european jurisdictions. and here is the limitation of the law, because in the case of hungary, unfortunately, this does not exist we can not talk about the rule of law, nor about authorities independent of the hungarian government. i am therefore sad to point out that, under the present circumstances, the eu cannot expect this member state to cooperate in good faith in avoiding aggressive tax planning.
madam president, please. i voted no, of course, on the shameful decision against poland, which was taken by the european union or the european parliament, which, by the way, never wanted to act against the mass police brutality and the shooting of the eyes. i voted this way because i agreed with the resolution of the hungarian parliament of 21 february, entitled: standing with poland against pressure from brussels. quoting him, "in 40 years behind the iron curtain, we've had enough of dictatorships. hungary and poland have recently been subjected to a number of unjustified and unfair attacks by the institutions of the european union. poland and hungary believe in the european community of nations instead of the idea of a united states of europe. instead of promoting the idea of an open society, we consider it our duty to preserve our christian culture. the parliament considers that the fact that the european parliament and the european commission initiated or decided to initiate proceedings against poland under article 7 of the eu treaty is unfounded.
madam president, please. we hungarians have received another message from the european union. i'd like to pass this on to my fellow countrymen in preparation for the april 8 elections. this report on the situation of fundamental rights says: it stresses that the european union - point 29, for the benefit of interpreters - must promote a policy of reception and integration throughout its territory and considers it unacceptable that some member states claim not to be concerned by the phenomenon of migration. let me imagine, my fellow hungarians, that the candidates of the left and the liberals who now claim that they will keep the border fence, will keep away the mass migration, if the hungarian people demand it. how will they attack their parties and factions here, do they really think they'll be the big opposition here? don't fall for that shit.
mr president, the facts really do point in a particular direction. the commission has made a very senior appointment without following its own procedures adequately, certainly as far as transparency is concerned. this has flawed consequences. it demonstrates that checks and balances are, shall we say, missing from the work of the commission. equally that when it suits the commission, it ignores the rules, meaning the rule of law. following procedure is a necessary part of the rule of law. if the commission is ready to ignore its own rules, why should anyone pay a blind bit of attention to what the commission says about flaws in the rule of law in member states or anywhere else for that matter?
madam president, at the last plenary we were dealing with mr barroso, former commissioner, now working for goldman sachs, coming back to bribe, perhaps, or perhaps just influence the present commission. at this plenary we are talking about a political appointee becoming the secretary-general of the european commission, in violation of all the relevant rules. in the meantime, the same european union dares to have article 7 proceedings against my country, hungary, and against poland for violation of the rule of law. don’t you think that you should immediately, after this very session, stop these article 7 proceedings and start proceedings instead against yourselves?
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of the committee on international trade and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, entitled 'gender equality in eu trade agreements' (2017/2015 (ini)) (a8-0023/2018), by ms eleonora forenza and ms malin björk.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to commission decision 2014/387/eu:
thank you very much, ma'am. and i want to thank the men, it's very important that they have a say in this debate. we don't have a lot of people to talk to right now, so i'm sorry. and now i give the floor to mrs. tomašić. there you go. i know, mr kelly but i have to give it to the ladies too.
the rapporteur. madam president, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's really inspiring to be a reporter in this house on a subject that's about our future together. and there is no area of the daily life of a european citizen or of our visitors that is not affected by this report, which i have been working on for the past year and which has been produced by a very well-coordinated team of shadow rapporteurs, on the european strategy for interoperable intelligent transport systems. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the subject under discussion and the one brought to us by the commission could be a revolutionary change in the prevention, avoidance and protection of human life. similarly, in everyday transport management, whether we are talking about the staggering congestion of cities or motorways, or pollution, a european strategy for cooperative, intelligent transport systems can also be revolutionary. and add to that, it can significantly affect and improve our daily lives, whether we're talking about servicing our cars or inventing the next meal, pizza, coffee shop. so everything that will be in the future about connecting cars, us as passengers, car users and roadside signage, and then later lead to automated traffic, self-driving systems, is somewhere in this strategy. ladies and gentlemen, progress, technological progress, is much faster than what we in the european union have been able to track down in our own legislation, strategies or support mechanisms. and that's why i use the word again, because it's a revolutionary question for all of us, how do we implement intelligent transportation systems that are cooperative with each other. we're talking about 30 million cars a year being connected here in the european union. can you imagine what an amazing development, what a revolutionary technological innovation this will be in all of our lives? but let me just say a couple of things that if you read the report and think about it, you might understand better that we also have to deal with the incredible digital divide that exists in europe, not just between countries, but within regions. and in this report, we're also going to talk a lot about who can access the data in vehicles and how, and when we have cooperative transportation systems, who can have our data, our incredible amount of data about us, and what can it be used for. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked as shadow rapporteurs in my reporting team, in my own secretariat and in other groups. and i have to tell you, we've had over 100 meetings in a year, and i feel like we've got the results. if all is right, we can adopt this report tomorrow by a large majority and then the commission can continue its work. thank you very much, madam president.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. indeed, the role of regions and cities in reducing emissions and in combating climate change in general is of paramount importance. at the same time, we must not ignore the fact that although 75% of the european population calls itself urban, more than 44% of the population is connected to agriculture in one way or another. and so we have to see that agriculture itself is the single largest polluter in europe. so i think we can all consider and embrace the concept of what's called smart villages, which is essentially, right at the heart of the idea, precisely the techniques that enable precision agriculture, that protect the environment, and protect our environment in general.
madam president, please. in romania, from the very beginning, representatives of the szekler autonomy movement and the organizers and participants of the szekler freedom day organized by the szekler national council have been subject to official harassment, retaliation and sanctions. one of the most recent and flagrant examples of this is the unjustified expulsion of attila dabis, the sznt's foreign affairs representative from romania. the ceausescu-era deprivation of rights is contrary to romanian law and violates the fundamental freedom of movement of european citizens. i object to the ban without a court order and the declaration of undesirable person, as dabis attila has not committed any illegality, but only protects the rights and interests of the hungarian national community in romania.
i have to say, madam president, in recent days, a video about vienna by a minister of viktor orbán, namely jános lázár, has been the main topic of public debate in austria and hungary. as part of a cheap hate campaign, orbán's minister tried to portray vienna one of the most beautiful cities in europe as if the district of favoriten was in apocalyptic conditions. he tried to convince hungarian voters that the city's clean streets were full of garbage as a result of the influx of migrants, who have displaced the real locals - white christians. we, the hungarian and european democrats, want our friends in vienna, austria and europe to know that the majority of hungarians did not vote for this government. this government is in power in hungary because of fraud and corruption. we are deeply ashamed of their inflammatory speeches and we apologize not only to the people of vienna but also to all europeans, to the representatives of the united nations and other international organizations in vienna who have been shamefully insulted by orbán's ministers.
madam president, a key aspect of brexit is the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom after the latter has become a third state. the auguries are not encouraging. the brexit vote has brought to the surface the very deep divisions in the uk. these are not new, but they have acquired saliency following the brexit vote. the first such division is deeply ideological – that between the intransigent brexiteers and the committed remainers. there is no common ground here. then there are the cracks in what holds the country together. how united really are england, scotland, wales and northern ireland? how much are they desirous of remaining in the same state and, if so, on what terms? there is a crisis in the british constitution. finally, there’s the centre-periphery problem. you probably all know this. london and the south-east, well that’s a powerhouse, but the further north one goes, the weaker things are economically, in terms of status, aspirations and power. that’s the way that peripheries work. without a redistribution of power, of goods and status – status above all – the crisis of the united kingdom will persist. and that signifies that the united kingdom will be an uneasy partner for the european union.
in writing. i think that brexit is still a matter of reparations, because the current situation, which has been created by the lack of restraint of the british nationalists, the irresponsibility of the previous conservative government and the current inaction, can only be a loss for both sides. our report shows that the ep remains the most consistent and responsible actor in limiting losses from the eu's point of view. that is why i support our negotiating directive to settle the future of eu-uk relations, preferably in a modern association agreement, even if the london bottleneck does not make this possible for the time being. the ep also has a major responsibility to ensure that the agreement, with close monitoring of the negotiation process and full unity, respects the balance of obligations and rights, safeguards the integrity of the single market and the eu's legal and policy-making autonomy, as non-member britain cannot enjoy the same privileges as the other 27 at the expense of the eu. as a socialist, it is particularly important to me that our efforts to achieve a social europe and sustainability and to uphold eu standards, and thus the eu's competitiveness, are not undermined by the post-brexit settlement. as a representative of a member state which is heavily involved in british employment, i would like to ask my colleagues in particular for their continued support in the strict enforcement of the reciprocal rights of settlers and workers, both in the transition period and in the post-brexit period, since we are unable to expect this from the council because of the divergent interests of the member states and even the opposing interests of some.
my colleagues! i wanted to address mr juncker, but as usual he could not wait for the debate to be over, and had to leave. we wish him well in all respects. i will therefore also address mr timmermans and mr tajani. mr juncker said at the end of the previous three-hour, very bitter, debate on brexit that we should look no longer to the past but to the future. looking ahead to next week's european council, let me ask: has the european union concluded from brexit that it is not possible to force member states to the limit to adopt values and measures that are completely alien to their peoples and nations? can we hungarians hope that, having drawn this conclusion - and i look forward to mr timmermans' reply - they will finally stop forcing hungary to accept mass migration by means of constant threats? we don't want to and we won't. i'm waiting for your answer.
madam president, please. the march european council will also discuss the issue of migration, if not as a main topic, and the review of the dublin system, on the basis of the report and the initial proposal of the bulgarian presidency. but this proposal is still based on mandatory distribution of migrants, which will only lead to further sharing between member states and thus certainly cannot be part of the real solution. the member states cannot be deprived of the right to decide who is allowed to enter their territory and who is not. eu decision-makers should have realized long ago that no system based on mandatory distribution of migrants will be able to solve europe's immigration problem. it will be seen as an invitation by hundreds of thousands of migrants waiting to leave. instead, europe must regain full control of its external borders, which is a prerequisite for stopping illegal migration. the protection of the external borders and the billions spent on it should therefore be seen as a sign of solidarity, as it contributes to protecting our european heritage and preserving the stability of the continent.
a question of cards addressed to the representative siegfried mureşan. - mr. deputy, i have to go. thank you for answering my question. i do not quite understand your position, but do you also think that the reduction in the agricultural and cohesion funds means that they will be reduced in terms of their amounts, taking account of a larger budget? my position is that in sum these should not be reduced.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have listened and written extensively over the last two hours and will take account of all your arguments, comments, expectations and criticisms in the further process of drawing up a draft mff by 2 may. i would like to pay particular tribute to those who, like me, were present from the beginning to the end and have remained: mr arthuis, the chairman of the committee, and my colleagues thomas, lewandowski, deprez and olbrycht. because i believe that the big picture of all the word messages is important. why do i say this? the budgetary framework cannot be achieved if you put your own opinion on the table but fail to see that democracy requires a majority or even unanimity. i need a majority in this house and i need unanimity in the council: 27 finance ministers, 27 ministers in the general affairs council, in fact 27 heads of state and government, all the national parliaments. so i say to myself and to you, friends, let's go in engaged, but let's stay loose. if everyone didn't offer flexibility, we wouldn't have a chance of a next budgetary framework for the next decade. i would suggest that we go over the tasks we have to perform in the interests of the european citizens - whether they are citizens of rome, stuttgart, dublin, warsaw, italian, polish, irish, german or european citizens - who in any case all live on the european continent. even those who do not like europe very much live on the european continent. my suggestion is that we should put the tasks where they can be done best, most efficiently. we need a clear system of competence. that is why we offer the argument of added value. i do not want to support a project, propose a programme or invest a euro unless we can demonstrate the added value at european level. and conversely, i expect you to ensure that when the added value is demonstrated, we get the money for it, because it is spent in the interests of our citizens and taxpayers. if you invest in europe and create value, it is cheaper than 27 times in parallel or 100 or 200 times in parallel in different regions. can we agree on that? we need the money so that we can realise the added value - not less and not more. this is the best form of investment in the interest of our taxpayers. i'll give you examples: we are not dreaming of a european army. we do not want militarism. but we know that for every dollar an american earns, he gets a far greater return in terms of weapons and security systems than an austrian, a german or a frenchman, because we lack the scales, because the scale effects are not achieved. would it not make sense to put some money into the european budget, to standardise weapons types, to jointly tender, to achieve economies of scale and thus save money? not with more, but with less, to achieve more in return. my grandfather served in the württemberg army. i dream of a european security strategy, not of a european army, but of a security strategy. because in times of 'america first', we must work together to ensure the external and internal security of our citizens. now, secondly, i believe that the value can be demonstrated in the area of research. you in the house and we in the commission always talk about 3% of our gdp for research. we're down to two percent. i'm from baden-württemberg and i'm proud of one thing: 4.9%. 4.9% for research in my home country. and i say to our italian friends, i love italy, 1% is not enough. it's not going to keep up with the competition in the long run. the 3% would be equivalent to 450 billion euro for a gdp of the eu-28. we're at almost 300 billion. on the horizon, that's 12 billion. would it not make sense to invest more in european research projects? that is why i want to avoid cuts in two programmes. i want to increase the programmes 'horizon europe', 'horizon post 2020' and erasmus+ in the interest of our children, so that they learn and see the culture, the languages, the diversity of the european continent at an early age. i also know that brexit is a game changer. let me put it this way, if a rich uncle doesn't come for christmas, there's not as many presents under the christmas tree. but to achieve everything by cutting back would do tremendous damage to programmes such as agriculture and cohesion. i have been accused before of wanting to punish the farmers. that's exactly what we don't want! we want to help farmers so that the next generation in rural areas can produce clean and good food for our food security, including in steep areas in the black forest, in the alps, while meeting the requirements for climate protection, the environment, groundwater, soil and sustainability. we need money for that. my cut will be at 5 to 10%, no less and no more. with a 5 to 10% cut, we are closing part of the gap created by brexit, but we are not destroying the common european agricultural policy. cohesion: if we look at the catch-up needs in terms of infrastructure, standards, building renovation, social and environmental needs in some member states, for example in rural areas in romania or bulgaria, i think cohesion policy is still important. and we can see from the examples of estonia, latvia, lithuania and slovakia that cohesion policy is working, that the countries are increasingly moving towards the european average of gdp per capita. and when we give money to economically weaker regions and bring them closer to us, i believe that this contributes to a meaningful union of solidarity. you have to see, basically, that everybody has a perspective, not just some regions alone. border security is a very concrete issue. i always hear from national governments: we do not need border protection in austria, then in germany, then between italy and austria, then hungary, then when the external border protection is effective, when the outer shell in bulgaria, greece, malta, cyprus, italy and spain is effectively protected. it would be much cheaper to have a strong european border guard, which would effectively support bulgaria, greece, italy, spain, malta, cyprus, and we would have freedom of movement within the community. i came from kehl to strasbourg yesterday and was stuck in traffic for half an hour. it can't be! i call for the free movement of goods, goods and people within europe and for the protection of external borders. but then we need the money to pay the staff. so my question, particularly to the house, is this: if i can prove that there is added value, will you support me in spending the money in a european way, more efficiently and more cost-effectively than 27 times nationally or 250 times regionally? but there's one thing i can't do. i am not going to vote for the report, but i am going to vote for the report, and i am going to vote for the report, and i am going to vote for the report, but i am going to vote for the report, and i am going to vote for the report. so, adam riese should be a colleague of ours, advising us. the square of the circle is not you or me. and only if you say so, we can cut back on section v. my dear friends, let us remain serious. we should try to make the budgetary framework a priority from 2 may. we are offering full transparency. we'll continue to share what you need to know over the next few weeks to help you prepare. the vote will give us a twofold window of opportunity until the budgetary framework comes into force. the worst thing would be that we would have no budgetary framework. because wherever you are: farmers, researchers, regions, municipalities need clarity. the sooner they have clarity, the better they can plan, the better prepared every citizen is - whether he is german, polish or feels european - for the next decade. we 're going to be very careful with your statements . thank you very much. and we look forward to the deliberations that will begin on 2 may. (applause from the centre)
in writing. we welcome the european parliament's statement that the current financial framework for the cap and cohesion policy should be maintained and that eu-level responses to new political priorities should be financed from new sources and not at the expense of existing programmes. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by countries that are not members of the european union. he fears that this could lead to the european union shifting its funding to migration. in the allocation of cohesion funds, it is important that parliament states that the development of the regions must remain one of the criteria. at the same time, we do not support the introduction of unfounded indicators selected on social, environmental and demographic grounds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the revenue side of the budget, we support the need to replace the revenue lost due to brexit, the eu budget cannot be reduced, hungary is also willing to increase its payments. we consider it important that the introduction of new sources of eu revenue should respect the financial sovereignty of the member states and that the tax burden on citizens should not increase.
in writing. – cohesion policy is an important tool of solidarity within the eu, reducing differences of development among ms. the european flow of sources had a great effect on the economic and social circumstances of most of the new member states. there are various discussions on the efficiency and effectiveness of the cohesion policy, which included suggestions to link cohesion policies to conditionalities related to the rule of law, to the participation in certain common european policies or to the eppo. however, that cohesion policy is an economic tool rather than a political one and that the potential suspension of payment will punish first and foremost the citizens, thus leading to an unfair situation. given that corruption hinders the core of the aims of the policy, an ideal mechanism would include institutional guarantees and conditionalities linked to fighting corruption and ensure the capacity to issue sanctions. eppo would be instrumental in this sense, as corruption often lies at the top of the political caste, which generally holds control over law enforcement agencies. additionally, a system of ongoing evaluation and analysis of corruption and anti—corruption performance, as well as intervention based on direct management upon necessity, are to be put in place.
in writing. the facts speak for themselves: the hungarian figures are orders of magnitude better than those of the eu: youth unemployment in the euro area is 18.7%, in my country 10.7%! the eu is calling on member states to reduce taxes on food, an important measure for social justice. in hungary, we have already done this: in 2017, the tariff on poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk was reduced to 5%. in 2018, the impact on live fish, fish fillets and domestic pigs' intestines will be reduced. in 2015, 119 million people in the eu were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, far from the europe 2020 target. since 2008, the number of poor has increased by two million, while in one year 2.5 million immigrants arrived from outside the eu, most of them unskilled. hungary does not want to become an immigrant country for this reason either. my country is also leading in the distribution of the goods produced: by law, if gdp growth is higher than 3.5%, pensioners receive a pension premium. i am pleased that the report calls on member states to increase the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market, and we must do everything we can to achieve this in the future.
i voted in favour of this important resolution, which was signed by almost all the major political groups in the european parliament, and which proves that the ep remains the most consistent and responsible actor in the eu's interest in limiting the inevitable losses on both sides of brexit. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i believe that the decision also helps the european parliament to ensure that the future withdrawal agreement will have a balance of obligations and rights, safeguarding the integrity of the single internal market and the eu's autonomy in its legal and political decision-making, by closely monitoring the negotiation process.
the european union wants to punish the united kingdom while discouraging other countries from leaving. you're making terms that the british government cannot accept. it would retain the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the european union after withdrawal. the irish border problem was solved by donald tusk by effectively separating northern ireland from the united kingdom. the eu expects the uk to comply with the common tax laws after the uk leaves. it would prohibit the conclusion of treaties with other countries until the end of the transition period. if the european union does not take account of the legitimate interests of the british people, then the withdrawal agreement will be without agreement. and that would be the worst thing for both of us.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual financial framework for the period after 2020. appropriate financial resources should also be allocated to the political aspirations of the european union. without this, we risk further growth of the forces of the eurosceptic polarity and, ultimately, of the whole european project. i have therefore strongly supported the increase in the union's own resources. i also stress the importance of financial efficiency. this can be achieved, on the one hand, through programmes such as the so-called smart villages, which could have a positive impact on several areas at once through the main priorities of the mff. on the other hand, greater emphasis should be placed on transparency in the use of eu funds, so that cases of large-scale fraud, such as that committed by the hungarian government, are avoided.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. i agree with what it says about investment and growth. in particular, more investment in research, development and innovation and technological upgrading is needed to increase productivity. investments in childcare, social housing, education, training, health, research, digital innovation and the circular economy would certainly increase productivity and employment. i also share the rapporteur's views on convergence and inclusion, including the tax system and young people not in employment, education or training. regrettably, however, the hungarian government is acting in direct opposition to the report, thus jeopardising hungary's independent economic growth and employment improvement, independent of eu funds.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the tragic assassination of ján kuciak shocked everybody in slovakia and in the european institutions alike. as a member of the ep delegation to slovakia, i believe that now the most important thing is an impartial and in—depth investigation to unveil who and what were behind this brutal murder. but we also have lessons to learn at eu level. the first is that the media freedom situation of investigative journalism and journalists must be an issue for the eu as well. we cannot hide behind the mantra that media issues belong to the member states and are member state competences. we need better legal protection for journalists and journalistic sources, including whistle-blowers, now. we have to analyse the situation in the member states regarding access to information regimes in the member states and the possible protection of investigative journalists’ personal data in requests for data procedures. we must step up against practices to intimidate journalists by threatening them or by strategic law suits. we have to have european anti—slapp measures today and we should invest financial resources to support, strengthen and protect independent media in the member states in the next post—2020 mff at the latest. second, there is the question of eu funds. how is it possible that major frauds regarding eu funds were happening for years and finally it was neither the slovakian authorities nor the european institutions who uncovered them, but a 27—year—old investigative journalist who paid for this with his life? this must warn us that the control mechanisms to check the spending of eu funds are not strict and effective enough and so are not able to prevent eu funds enriching organised crime groups and politically well-positioned oligarchs in the member states.
in writing. i welcome the regulation on the revision of europass. europass ensures a standardised, more transparent framework for professional documents such as cvs, with the aim of making the skills and competences of eu citizens understandable in any eu member state. the standardised cvs are more transparent, making it easier for employers to compare applicants. the main objective of europass is to make the qualifications and competences of eu citizens transparent within and between member states. europass ensures that learning between formal and non-formal and practical (e.g. mobility) settings is as accessible as possible. since its launch in 2005, europass has been used by more than 100 million people, but it had to be redesigned because it was too complex and complicated to use. one of the main aims of the changes is to make europass accessible to more people, especially people with disabilities. we proposed a technical transformation of the online platform, a digital unblocking. in addition, additional elements will be introduced in addition to the types of documents currently available (cv, language passport, mobility card, diploma supplement, certificate supplement). such as the new e-portfolio and the so-called digital skills intelligence database. in our country, over the past 12 years, more than 3.5 million europass cvs and 26 000 linguistic passports have been produced.
good morning, everybody, and a very warm welcome to commissioner cecilia malmström. it is a wonderful, beautiful, day, the hungarian national day, so i am extremely happy to welcome you all to our plenary sitting today.
the first item is the debate on the following questions: the question for oral answer by bernd lange, on behalf of the inta committee, to the commission on the implementation of the conflict minerals regulation (o-000017/2018 - b8-0009/2018) ((2018/2557 rsp), the question for oral answer by linda mcavan, on behalf of the deve committee, to the commission on accompanying measures on conflict minerals (o-000016/2018 - b8-0008/2018) (2018/2542 ((rsp)).
my fellow members of the house of representatives! pull up the time limits. i'm sorry, i know this is a very important issue and there's a lot to talk about, but to be fair to each other, let's stick to what the d'hondt says. i was trying to give you time by letting everyone else go. let's make sure the next items on the agenda start on time.
i have also heard your remarks, which is why i have allowed the parties' representatives to continue their discussions in the first round. now, on behalf of the independents, we'll hear from mr. synadinos for a minute. there you go.
i'll close this discussion.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of article 2 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 april 2013 on the european union agency for fundamental rights (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
the action plan drawn up by the commission sets ambitious targets for the period from 2020 to 2025, i.e. for the next eight years. at the same time, allow me to make a few observations, a few shortcomings to draw your attention to. first of all, i think that the action plan has a problem with technological neutrality, because the question of battery cars and the associated infrastructure is being given too much prominence again and again. at the same time, i would remind you that there is a lot of publicly funded research and development going on across europe, and that it is eu money that is being used, and that has a right to exist, and that this money and this invested energy should not be wasted because we rely solely on battery technology. diversification is important for european mobility. we don't have to think in terms of a flat mobility. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the commission's calculations must be realistic and based on market conditions. the state aid system currently in place in many member states is not a permanent one and therefore cannot be counted on to last forever.
i have been served with a motion for an order under article 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr enrique guerrero salom, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the implementation of the development cooperation instrument, the humanitarian aid instrument and the european development fund (2017/2258 (ini)) (a8-0118/2018).
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr jean-paul denanot, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, entitled 'a european strategy to promote protein crops' (2017/2116 (ini)) (a8-0121/2018).
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i welcome the report before us, which is in line with the requests we have made. a previous report by the european parliament seven years ago found that european protein crop production accounts for only 3-4% of the eu's arable land, while around 70% of our plant protein-rich raw materials are imported from third countries, mainly using genetic engineering. it is clear that europe needs a new, comprehensive protein policy in food production and agriculture. i am proud that my country has been at the forefront of initiatives in the european union to promote the self-determination of non-gmo protein by announcing the national protein programme. in the summer of 2017, the european soybean declaration was born as a result of a hungarian-german initiative, which aimed at the widespread use of alternative protein crops while preserving sustainability, and the replacement of imported soybeans with gmo-free european protein crops. the cultivation of protein crops also contributes to sustainable agricultural production by improving the carbon balance, diversifying the crop and reducing the risks of weeds and pests. in addition, nitrogen captured by protein plants can reduce the amount of nitrogen released as fertiliser. the report rightly points out that in addition to the cultivation of soybeans on the farm, the substitution of imports should also be encouraged by alternative protein crops such as fodder peas, alfalfa, starfish. eating protein-rich vegetables also promotes a healthy diet.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr charles goerens on behalf of the committee on development entitled 'improving debt sustainability in developing countries' (2016/2241 (ini)) (a8-0129/2018).
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr marc joulaud, on behalf of the committee on regional development, entitled 'strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union' (2017/2279 (ini)) (a8-0138/2018).
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 163).
madam president, please. as the hungarian representative of transcarpathia, i am very pleased that the fideszkdnp won the hungarian elections on april 8, so that hungary will continue to have a government that politicizes along the lines of hungarian national interests. a government that seeks to preserve hungarian identity, language and culture in hungary and in the hungarian territories abroad. since 2014, the hungarian community in ukraine, numbering about 150,000, has been the target of anti-hungarian atrocities more than 180 times. where the authorities have tried to make it impossible to exist by legal violations of rights see the language provisions of the new education law, or the abolition of a language law favourable to minorities where they have been incited against them in the media. other times, paramilitary organizations marched with impunity, chanting anti-hungarian slogans and intimidating the population, or they blew up the headquarters of hungarian advocacy organizations. against the insults to the transcarpathian hungarian community, only hungary raised its voice and provided political assistance. whereas in other cases, the very active human rights organisations and the european union have either remained silent or have passed over the violations with empty phrases. so it was vital for the transcarpathian hungarians that hungary remained a government that would stand up and protect this handful of hungarian communities.
that concludes the agenda item.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. you received a lot of applause after your speech, although i could sense that a lot of people in this room would probably agree with you. but, aside from the really nice words, i would also like to ask you if you see the possibility that this instrument, or the political formula around it, can deal with the situation that in some countries, such as hungary, the adoption of this financial instrument could even lead to a prison sentence. thank you very much.
madam president, please. i would like to call for an immediate and massive protest by european taxpayers against this shameful initiative, the essence of which is this: they want to destabilise hungary and poland by giving european union money to so-called non-governmental organisations with the obvious aim of undermining and dismantling democratically elected governments, as we see in hungary. the other target group is the ngos that support mass migration, and they want to give money to them as well. we have to protest, and i ask my fellow mps if they would, whoever is listening to me now, to look at me and make eye contact. how will the people's party vote on this issue? the whole of europe is watching your future, which is crucial for the future of europe. very ... (the president withdrew the floor from the member)
in writing. the new instrument takes away the essence of ngos: eu funding for ngos that stand for fundamental values, for the rule of law. the eu will take over the support of certain civil society organisations - but only those which it considers to be sufficiently vocal in defending the undefined rule of law, sufficiently vehement in attacking democratically elected governments, sufficiently vocal in seeking to counterbalance the will of the majority of democratically elected citizens, or sufficiently vocal in supporting an objective such as mass migration to the eu. the new tool will tell us from outside, from brussels, which ngos are useful to the union, which ngos are needed by the electorate at national or local level. this is absurd. what will the organisations funded by the eu be independent of? if the essence of ngos is to build from the bottom up, then this is exactly what is reversed by the funding from the top down. the independence of the selected ngos is called into question by the external eu funding, and therefore the question of the responsibility of ngos is left out. so this new tool is actually taking away the essence of democracy. the fact that this debate has been used by the left to attack hungary again proves that this tool is not intended for anything other than to legitimize the left's own interpretation of democracy.
in writing. the basic democratic values: the rule of law, fundamental rights cannot be taken for granted, even in the european union, as is shown by events in hungary, poland and slovakia, among others. in this situation, the eu has a duty to support civil society organisations that represent universal citizens' rights and democratic values in order to preserve fundamental values. however, it is not enough to provide ad hoc support. there is a need for long-term, budgeted and targeted support reaching organisations in the member states, including at local level. this will directly help european citizens to exercise their democratic rights and uphold the rule of law. i believe that these financial resources should be used first and foremost where they are needed most: in those countries where fundamental rights and the organisations that uphold them are most at risk. particular attention should be paid to the situation of the most vulnerable freedoms: the rights of children, minorities, or freedom of expression and of the press, and the freedom of self-organisation. the provision of financial assistance is not, however, a substitute for effective legal and political action by the union institutions. we know that the european institutions cannot do the work of national governments and local authorities and ngos, but they can provide substantial financial and legal support.
in writing. i think it is very important that we take time again and again to discuss the future of europe, as the union obviously has a number of unresolved problems. it is an honour that the president of the french republic has visited us and shared his ideas on how to solve these problems. although we differ in the level of concrete responses to the challenges, i see from your speech that the basis for solutions lies in the same factors: we can only rely on the national and cultural diversity of the union to save and renew europe; and we cannot find and implement the right changes without the widest possible involvement of citizens. the strength for europe's re-emergence is not to be found in some external power, but rather in its very core, the diversity of its nations. a strong europe is unthinkable without strong nations. representative democracy loses its legitimacy when citizens' opinions are excluded from decision-making. it is unacceptable that we, the members of parliament, should represent vague ideologies instead of the citizens who elected us, but this is only possible if we are open to the people and ask for their opinions. i believe that the union can learn a lot from the experience of the hungarian national consultations, where on several occasions millions of voters were able to express their views freely on the challenges of the day.
mr president, i would like to say to commissioner avramopoulos that he speaks about hungary as if we were some sort of deviant. let me tell you that we are not the deviants; we represent the majority of the citizens, the population of europe. the majority are fed up with mass migration. they do not want any more migrants and they want to send back those who are now here. we are on one side and, on the other side, there is the whole corrupt political elite. the thing is that the majority of the citizens of europe cannot really speak up because they are punished, they are oppressed, there are all these hate speech laws that silence people. it is really strange that we are the ones who are accused by the european union of not being democratic and of not having freedom of speech. we do have freedom of speech and we speak up for the majority of the citizens of europe, but they should also speak up and they should support hungary in our efforts.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the draft un migration document as a whole considers global population migration to be a positive phenomenon that it intends to encourage and organise. hungary, on the other hand, considers migration to be a bad and dangerous process that must be restricted and stopped. for the sake of european security and the threat of terrorism, the migration crisis is not a temporary crisis but a long-term challenge for all of us, warns manfred weber. in view of these considerations, and without denying the importance of global cooperation, i call on the european parliament not to support the draft un migration pact in an opportunistic manner. i also find it unacceptable that the eu should stigmatize and punish hungary and its allies for their anti-migration stance. we cannot allow free passage for migration. migration cannot be considered a basic human right. the right of nations to self-determination, as guaranteed by the un charter, and the sovereignty of member states must be respected.
mr president i have a poignant memory of when i was in school in berlin, living with a family, and they lived on one side of the wall, and their family members lived on the other side of the wall, within sight. i think about that when i go to korea as a member of the korean delegation. we hear from the personal stories there, and we know that it's one people, one nation, living in two separate worlds, separated from each other. both koreas have reunification ministries, so they're thinking long term about reunification. and what's very important is that after the war, there was only a temporary ceasefire agreement between them, and it's still in effect. so our goal with the delegation led by mr. deva has been to continually try to get them to sign at least a long-term peace treaty, with the demand for totality.
in writing. i welcome the report on the implementation of the eu's external financing instruments, as the union's external action is becoming increasingly important to european citizens. these financial instruments include the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii), the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the instrument for stability and peacebuilding (icsp), which is important for ukraine. i think it is important to emphasize that i am not in favour of pooling resources, and i am glad that we agree on this here in the european parliament. the budget for the instruments should show an upward trend, as they constitute the main mechanism supporting the union's action on the global stage. in order to ensure the success of projects, it would be appropriate to increase the visibility of external financing instruments in the regions concerned through communication and information campaigns. i share the rapporteur's view that the programming priorities of the european neighbourhood instrument should also cover socio-economic development, youth and the sustainable management of energy resources. i support the process of enlargement of the union, which requires genuine financial assistance, and therefore a stronger pre-accession facility and a stronger european neighbourhood facility are of paramount interest to me.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i welcome the part of the report which recognises the strategic importance of the instrument for pre-accession assistance, now known as ipa 2. however, i believe that the pre-accession financial assistance provided to the candidate countries is limited in terms of the financial resources of the european union and the reforms and costs facing the candidate countries. serbia is entitled to a financial contribution of approximately eur 1,5 billion over the seven-year period, i.e. eur 200 million per year, or eur 28 per capita per year. although this is a significant amount, it falls far short of the resources needed to implement the reforms. for example, environmental tasks are estimated to cost €4 billion by accession. i believe it is essential that the real needs of the candidate countries, in particular those of the two leading countries, serbia and montenegro, are taken into account when the next multiannual financial plan is drawn up. this would help to implement reforms more quickly and effectively, which is essential to meet the 2025 accession deadline set in the enlargement strategy. thank you for listening.
mr president the european council's main conclusions are on job creation. he expects the free trade agreements to create millions of new jobs. this is wrong! just look at the north american free trade agreement, where trade between the u.s., canada and mexico has increased, and u.s. corporations have established supply chains across the region. their global competitiveness improved, they became the winners, but job creation failed. in the world of global enterprise, that's not even a goal. the creation of high-quality jobs in large numbers requires the development of a local economy that is not focused on the mere pursuit of profit but on the well-being and security of local communities.
in writing. the conclusions of the last eit meeting reflect the important package of decisions taken by the eu's main political body on important issues such as economic harmonisation, the european semesters, digital europe, relations with our balkan and turkish partners, the salisbury attack and, in the 28th round, the common brexit strategy. in full recognition of the importance of the eit decisions, i would like to highlight the anomalies in the communication of european summits, the shortcomings in the information provided after the eit meetings, which further alienate our citizens from the eu. naturally, the eit's decisions are commented on with somewhat different emphases by the leaders in their own countries. however, it is unacceptable, and it undermines the authority of the european council as the eu's top organ, that the entire population of a member state is given information about the summit that is false, even if it does not reflect the agenda. i can say that 90 percent of the hungarian population still knows about the march eit that there was only one issue (not really on the agenda), illegal migration, where prime minister orbán fought hard to protect his people, defeated eu partners who urged forced resettlement. that's it: through the government's media monopoly, as part of orbán's election campaign, the hungarians were given this absurd picture of this important eit meeting. i would therefore draw the attention of the president of the eit to the urgent need to make eu post-eit communication more effective, more coherent and closer to the citizen, as the example of hungary illustrates.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to point out one issue which was already mentioned by the rapporteur for the european parliament’s discharge, my colleague derek vaughan, and that is general expenditure allowances (gea). after long years of efforts now we are closer than ever to introduce a minimally acceptable scheme for the transparency of gea expenditure. in fact, we would need much more than is in the report, but this is the very basis of transparency for gea. the three elements we have: the separate bank account, keeping the invoices and reimbursement at the end of the mandate. unfortunately, there are amendments in parliament to destroy this very minimal proposal. we speak a lot about the emergence of populism in the eu and a lack of trust towards the eu institutions, but to improve the situation we have to make those institutions much more accountable and transparent. and we in the european parliament, we have the credit to call other institutions to become more transparent if we do the same. if you start with us and if we lead by example. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have a very short answer to that. i can help you to find each and every invoice of the gea expenditure on my home page. i do it myself. i lead by example. what we in the european parliament are asking is not exactly to see individual invoices, i think that is a voluntary exercise. what is proposed in the discharge report, and what i am arguing for, is much less, but this is the basis of transparency. i think that this is the minimum we should set up to gain trust and credibility from the people.
mr president everyone knows that my country, hungary and poland are being prosecuted under article 7 for allegedly serious violations of the rule of law. what is the rule of law? the rule of law, which means that decisions are predictable, clear, visible and applicable to all, must be made according to rules that apply equally to all. now, what is the violation of the rule of law, or the opposite of the rule of law, the rule of law, the arbitrariness, is best studied in the workings of the european union. for example, when george soros or other lobbyists negotiate behind closed doors with the leadership of the union, that is a serious violation of the rule of law. and also, as we discussed last time, if mr barroso, who was commissioner-general, is now working for goldman sachs and comes back here to lobby, that is also a violation of the rule of law. what we discussed today, what we voted on today, that mr juncker, by breaking and circumventing all the rules, is appointing his cronies to the position of secretary general of the commission, is also a violation of the rule of law... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, when it comes to the issue of mass migration and the european union, positions are quite clear. on the one side, there is my country, hungary, with the visegrad countries representing clearly the majority of european citizens. the majority of european citizens do not want migration. they want to protect europe; they want to protect their own countries, their own villages and towns. the important thing is that they should speak up much more loudly. i understand, because i lived in communism. i know how it is: that there is oppression, there is fear, one can lose his or her job, there are hate speech laws, and so on. but still, if we want to protect europe and our countries and our communities together – hungary, the visegrad countries and the citizens of europe – please speak up where ever you can and support hungary. they want to destabilise our country; please help us.
mr president, subsidiarity and proportionality seem to be the past, and president macron – if we let him do so – will change the structure, the strategies and everything of the european union, as he explained to us. he said he wants a european sovereignty, as opposed to the national sovereignty that most europeans want. he wants a united states of europe, while we european people want a europe of nations: of independent nations with sovereignty. mr macron wants mass migration. we, the majority of europe, do not want migration; we want to save and to protect europe and our communities. please, let’s stand together for the europe of nations, of independent nations with sovereignty, and keep the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. the cambridge analytica scandal has exposed extremely serious irregularities, the most serious data theft possible, in facebook's operations. but the case that has come to light is only the tip of the iceberg. there are a number of problems with the way facebook and other large international internet companies operate that need to be addressed. the large international internet companies generate billions of euros in online advertising revenue, but they evade taxation and harm european taxpayers by their tax avoidance practices. these companies create a special online public without any regulation. it is unclear what their responsibility is to correct, and what procedure they follow to ban someone from using a particular internet service. they operate media products without any regulation applying to them. the large international internet companies handle the data of hundreds of millions of european citizens, quasi online, in a way that the general european data protection and data security rules do not apply to their operations, so their general data processing activities are unregulated. the resolution of these three problems is urgent and very important for the protection of european citizens.
mr president we all know that one of the most important tools in the fight against terrorism is to try to shut down the money supply. we also know that shutting these down can be very difficult. but at the same time, it's important to recognize that money laundering and uncontrolled money flows are no longer just supporting terrorism, not just supporting the mafia, not just supporting the criminal organizations. and you have to see that all of this is already a threat to democracy in europe, in the european union. first of all, because we have clear evidence that financial regulatory evasion, tax avoidance, money laundering are increasingly linked to corruption, to authoritarian political systems within some of the member states of the european union. we can see that in some member states political corruption is rampant, that money from the european union is being embezzled by people close to the government and by economic interests, and that this is almost self-evidently linked to offshore companies, tax evasion, money laundering or even to uncontrolled residence permits. we know that residence permits have allowed many people to enter the european union who are wanted in other countries outside europe for money laundering or for supporting terrorism. it should be clear that there are member states within the european union today where corruption and the laundering of money derived from corruption are important tools for maintaining political power. it's hard to admit, but it's true. that is why i think that the european union cannot afford to allow authoritarian, illiberal ideologies to be spread by means of confused financial manipulations by all those who are working to destroy the european union and liberal democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to begin by offering my congratulations to mr rangel for a report of signal importance. there is no question as to whether or not national parliaments play a role in european politics, they do. any holistic assessment would immediately come to this conclusion, but the strategic question is how this role is to be understood and regulated. clearly, national parliaments cannot usurp the role and functions of this parliament, but we cannot exclude the national parliaments from the european political system either. it’s the proper allocation of roles that can resolve questions of overlap or conflict. here it seems to me the report is very clear. national parliaments are much better suited to holding their governments to account, implying that there should be a clear line of accountability between national parliaments and council. there are best practices at the national level that are worth looking at. then there is the at times sensitive relationship between national parliaments and this parliament. these sensitivity is understandable where power relationships are involved and the lines of competences are fuzzy. the report goes a long way to identifying these fuzzy areas and makes valuable suggestions as to how to achieve clarity. regular contact between the different parliamentary levels is a key step in the right direction.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, the eu’s competition policy is an essential instrument for a properly functioning internal market in the union. it helps us prevent the over-concentration of economic and financial power, and it is also a key tool for moderate prices, better quality products and services, and of course greater choice for the consumers. this competition policy is ensuring a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, as the farming sector is under pressure from constant economic and climate-related hazards. the colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development therefore gave a strong signal. a market-oriented common agricultural policy needs to provide support for farmers and grant additional time—limited exemptions from certain competition rules. while competition policy defends consumers’ interests, it has to take account of the interests and difficulties of agricultural producers and rural people too. we are still doing more and more in a couple of fields, such as unfair trade practices, and concerning rural development, including its social elements, especially, as much as the conception for smart villages.
in writing. – we need a resolution which is as balanced as possible. therefore, i am deeply convinced that a third-party investigation is not acceptable. israel has an excellent record of investigating its own military actions and drawing the necessary conclusions to redress any exceptions to the proper implementation of its legitimate right to self-defence. israel itself is also a vibrant democracy and the army’s activity is a constant source of healthy public and political debate which itself contributes to the necessary oversight. to call for an independent investigation, even before the idf has completed its own inquiry, is therefore at the very least premature and implies a grave accusation against a friendly country: namely, that its democratic process cannot possibly be trusted. the notion of a possible icc inquiry is particularly unjustified. given the legal principle of complementarity under the rome statute, the icc can only initiate cases when a state to whom an alleged perpetrator belonged was unwilling or unable to act. in the case of israel, that criteria has not been met because israel has a proven track record of investigating its own military and is, as mentioned, in the process of investigating the recent events.
mr president, dear mr juncker, i really liked what you said about america - and i quote - that we will not give in to blackmail. you know, mr juncker, we hungarians are the same about this european union. we will not give in to blackmail, no matter how they terrorize us, we will defend our country from mass migration. they are trying to take away our bail money right now, but believe me, mr juncker, the whole world, the whole of europe, all the voters are beginning to see that the truth is on our side. they agree with us, they want to protect their homeland, and we will be role models for them, and notice that by 2019, after the 2019 european parliament elections, the political composition of the entire european parliament will change, and the forces that defend their homeland and reject mass migration will win.
in writing. i would like to share with you two comments on the multiannual financial plan presented by the commission today. i would first draw the commission's attention to article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the objective of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities in development between regions and to help regions which are economically lagging behind catch up. i would ask the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, not to lose sight of the clear objectives set out in the treaty. the fundamental task of cohesion policy must be preserved and resources must not be redirected to the most advanced regions by introducing indicators that are independent of the level of development of the regions. cohesion aid may not be subject to any conditions outside this policy. moreover, cohesion policy cannot be punitive. the rule of law measure, the threat of withholding funds, would be a means of pressure by the commission against national governments that disagree with it. i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the pre-accession funds, although i still do not think it is sufficient. given the number of reforms and their resource requirements, especially for the two leading candidates, serbia and montenegro, these figures are not sufficient. i believe that this is also not in line with the objectives and targets set in the eu enlargement strategy. i would ask the member states to take this into account in the negotiations and to increase the resources available to the candidate countries. thank you, sir.
in writing. the european commission has finally drawn up its draft eu funds beyond 2020. the most important element of the current brussels governance position has once again become clear: those who do not agree with the brussels migration plans do not deserve to receive eu development funds, according to the commission. we are determined that the recovery funds are not donations, but are based on the development of the eu member states for the respective countries, including hungarian citizens. the last budgetary framework was a battle of wits, and this will be no different. the hungarian government and the hungarian representatives of the people's party must fight for the hungarian citizens, and we will fight for these rights, and we will find enough allies to access the eu development funds that are due to us. with the uk's departure, there is a 10-15% gap in the eu budget. the european commission's proposal seeks to do this at the expense of regional development funds and the common agricultural policy. this is unacceptable, we must protect the interests of hungarian farmers and hungarian businesses. the hungarian government has repeatedly expressed its willingness to preserve the catch-up and agricultural resources available to hungary, even at the cost of increasing its payments. the treaties of the union require that the general budget be adopted unanimously, i.e. each member state has an equal number of votes, including a veto. the current commission proposal has ignored this fact.
in writing. we have reached a very important moment in the parliamentary cycle. we will have to decide how much money is to be made available from the eu budget for the period 2021-2027. on the one hand, our past choices are very important, because in most cases, these are goals that span decades. on the other hand, the dynamic change in the environment requires constant revision: other aspects are more important today than in previous years. one area i want to talk about in detail is energy. i was pleased to see that the budget proposal does not reduce the amount of money allocated to energy infrastructure development. this is welcome, as in many central and eastern european countries the level of diversification is still low, the competitive markets are not sufficiently developed, and the security of supply is not satisfactory. i believe it is important that sufficient eu resources are available in the coming period to better address these regional problems.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. jean claude juncker presented his proposal for the budget of the european union for the period 2021 to 2027. after the document has been fully examined, we will discuss its contents in detail in the european parliament and will of course make proposals for improving the draft. mr juncker says the budget presented will give a new impetus to the european union, which has been reduced to 27 member states by brexit, focus resources on the most important priorities and provide new tools to tackle the challenges facing europe. i am confident that the european parliament will be a partner in achieving the objectives we have set ourselves, and we believe that member states can only succeed in a strong european union. we will certainly have discussions with the european commission on a number of issues, but we can already know and welcome that the proposal would increase the budget of the european union and the contribution of the member states in relation to their gross national income. more resources are needed to strengthen the european union's role. it is also positive that the draft would both simplify and increase the own resources system by including new areas. the independence of the union is clearly reinforced by sources independent of the member states. the european commission's proposal would increase budgetary flexibility. europe has faced a number of challenges in the past that we have not been able to respond effectively to with a budget set in stone, and we cannot afford to do so in the future.
we thank you so much for your points.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 3 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the text of the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the presidential elections in venezuela (2018/2695 ((rsp)).
we welcome you with a very warm heart to the european parliament. thank you very much for joining us in the debate.
motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be published at a later date. the debate is adjourned. the vote will take place on thursday 3 may 2018.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests the fight against fraud for the year 2016 (a8-0135/2018) by mr gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control:
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, corruption and fraud are systematically endangering the spending of eu resources in several member states. in some countries it is affected by organised crime groups, such as in slovakia. in some others, such as my own country, hungary, governmental corruption distorts the proper use of eu funds. with all due respect, the commission, olaf and the new eppo have limited resources and capacity to properly control the use of eu funds. not only the hungarian or the slovakian case, but also luxleaks, the panama papers, the paradise papers, taught us how much investigative journalists can do for the protection of the financial interests of the eu. therefore, it is of direct interest to the eu to invest in media freedom, both legally and financially. the press can perfectly complement the work of other investigative bodies of the eu and the member states. and we already called for these steps in previous pif reports as well. so we need, as was mentioned, good protection for whistle-blowers, also anti-slapp measures from the commission, and we need a commitment from the commission for a fixed budget line in the next mff after 2020.
president juncker presented the commission's draft budget for the next seven years a few hours ago. we are now discussing the report on the financial protection of the union against fraud. the two are connected. unfortunately, the cohesion funds will be cut by 7%. this means that these resources must be spent more efficiently and more effectively. the report reveals a shocking figure: from 2015 to 2016, irregularities related to the cohesion funds increased by 73%. so it's a matter of standing up to corruption. i propose that those countries which feel concerned about these issues should join the european public prosecutor's office, the 20 countries which have voluntarily undertaken this clear, clean form of control.
in writing. this report also contains very important warnings about the damage caused by corruption and fraud that threatens the financial interests of the union and thus the democratic functioning of the member states and the trust of citizens. today, the risk of fraud at european level has risen to a high level. corruption targeting our community resources has moved beyond the criminal sphere and, in at least one member state, is a systematic fraud organised at government level with the help of key players in the local judiciary. this is one of the most pressing legal and now serious political challenges facing the eu institutions and its member states today. this challenge is currently most evident in the corruption network built by the hungarian orbán government, which ensures the maintenance of the regime by virtually total expropriation of eu funds, public procurement. the problem has been recognised, albeit belatedly, by a series of olaf reports, infringement procedures and, more recently, the proposal for an article 7 procedure, but the current tools of eu law have failed to tackle both political and personal corruption in government. the interest of both european taxpayers and the hungarian population calls for strong political action at the highest level by the eu against orbán and any of his followers . in this area too, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and its coordinated operation with olaf and other eu institutions, as advocated in the report, and the encouragement of the remaining member states to join as soon as possible, are important sources of hope.
madam president, dear ms jurová, allow me to inform you that hungary is one of the countries that has not ratified the istanbul convention on violence against women, but has criminalized and punished the crime of harassment in the penal code many years ago. what is more typical of the european union and the european commission than to make such uninformed, such uninformed declarations, and, for example, to insult my country with such uninformed article 7 declarations, alleging violations of the rule of law. locked and loaded. precisely because we criminalize stalking, harassment, and we have developed a very serious legal practice, i, as a criminal lawyer and as a member of the european parliament, as a member of the committee on women's rights, have done quite serious research on how to differentiate between harassment acts, especially on what criteria can be used to quasi-estimate the life-threatening nature of harassment, when it is not enough, dear mrs. jurová and dear professionals, distance is not enough, in this case, pre-arrest is necessary. i'd be happy to share my research with you, if it's okay that i'm a hungarian expert.
mr. president, a change of heart is needed to bring about a just judgment of violent crimes. imagine the following scenario: a businessman returns home from a business meeting in the evening, wearing a beautiful watch. five of them grab him, drag him into a gate, and tell him, "give me your watch, brother". he's terrified, he takes off his watch, he hands it over, and then he has to prove for years in a court of law, or in a criminal trial, that he gave it to him in bad faith, and not because these guys were so sympathetic that he thought he was giving it to them. and no one would think that there's a presumption that consensus is valid and that it has to be proved otherwise, and no one would think that there's a legal solution that would be, at the very least, an invalid sales contract or an invalid gift contract, or even a simple theft. everyone can see clearly that this is violence, and that includes violence against women.
mr president, i would like to ask mr kelly, with all due respect, that if it is such a fantastic thing that migrant children and british or irish children are mixed, why do members of parliament not send their children to these schools, but instead either send their children to very expensive private schools where there are no migrant children or, in brussels, send their children to a special so-called european school which is completely isolated from the rest of the world? all employees and members of the european parliament qualify for sending their children there. why do members of the european parliament and the employees of the european union not want their children to have all this fun in the world from being mixed?
in writing. the protection of the child must of course be a priority in all procedures including the asylum procedure. this is also the case for minor migrants arriving in hungary. minors aged 14 to 18 are housed separately in the transit zones while migrant children under 14 are placed in special child protection institutions already in the country. the transit zones are permanently staffed by social workers assisting minors, police and other staff are specially trained and minors have access to education in all cases. at the same time, a large percentage of migrants falsely identify themselves as minors in order to benefit from the special procedures for children, thus concealing their criminal record. i therefore consider it very important to be able to use age determination as simply and quickly as possible for minors and to oblige them to provide their biometric data. i also reject the mandatory quota for migrant minors, which the report urges to be implemented, as it will only result in more and more unaccompanied minors embarking on the dangerous journey to europe in the hope of bringing their families back with them.
mr president, my colleague herranz garcía has produced an excellent report on the future of the sheep and goat sector in the eu, in which he has incorporated almost all my amendments, such as the authorisation of grazing in dry and poor quality ecologically important areas or the request to extend the financial support for the milk package to sheep and goat meat. i now wish to ask the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their support for a new proposal: the future eu agricultural policy should ensure that only livestock farmers who keep at least 0.2 head of cattle per hectare on the permanent pasture for which they apply for direct aid are eligible for direct aid. this could do much to restore the balance within agriculture to the benefit of livestock farming. it should be avoided that a farmer receives union aid only if he complies with the annual compulsory felling of his pasture.
mr president, the rapporteur has accepted many of my amendments to the herranz garcía report, and i think we have produced a good report. but i had an amendment that was not included, so let me say this in the public domain. this is a proposal for an amendment rationalizing the allocation of production-related aid in the sheep and goat sector. my aim was to provide a simple, general production-related payment for hobby farmers with fewer than 15 livestock units, while larger professional sheep and goat farmers would receive production-related payments in the traditional way, specifically to better reach target markets, modernise their stalls or improve product quality. i think that this proposal would have been as beneficial for pet and hobby pet owners as it would have been for breeders with large herds.
mr president, while the ep's special report on hungary unfoundedly accuses the country of anti-semitism and anti-gypsyism, the eu/ep systematically and biasedly turns a blind eye to the systemic anti-hungarianism that is gaining power in romania. i object to the discrimination against the hungarian minority community and the application of double standards! in 1959, under the leadership of the future dictator nicolae ceauşescu, the hungarian bolyai university in kolozsvár was dissolved. after sixty years, the romanian national communist past still haunts me, when the nationalist rector leonard aramfirei wants to finally abolish the romanized institution of the hungarian medical university with a great history in marosvásárhely, or merge it into a local romanian university. we rightly expect the european institutions - including the european parliament - to stand up for the hungarians in romania, for our hungarian institutions, for the medical training in transylvania.
madam president, this report on fraud against the european union's financial instruments shows some pretty tough numbers. so there are about 20,000 irregularities a year that fall within olaf's remit. it's a huge amount of money, and as a hungarian who is used to being in a constant defensive position, it automatically occurred to me that if there are such huge numbers, and the report clearly describes that all countries are involved, then why is it that hungary is constantly dealing with this issue, corruption, and so on. and then i also thought, well, it would be nice if we didn't have to defend ourselves all the time, but could actually start to deal with our own affairs and correct the mistakes that are undoubtedly in my country, for example, by using the tools of the european union. it's time to end this warfare and start dealing with these things.
madam president, it's a very interesting question why do western people actually allow themselves to be terrorized by this whole mass migration thing from the european union when it's clear that the vast majority of them don't want migration. one explanation for this is the emotional blackmail they're engaged in. if you don't want migration, then you're inhuman, anti-human and all that. the issue of migrant children is particularly strong in this context. you know, there's this notion that unaccompanied children are coming to europe from poverty, from misery, 20,000 a year. but let's ask you a few questions. is that the kind of baby-faced six-year-old you have to imagine when you talk about these kids? no, mostly 16, 17, 18 year olds. two, why does this report and this written document object to the need to know the exact age of these children? i wonder if they're 20 or 25 years old. there's the issue of family reunification, which they want to make mandatory. you always have to look behind things.
madam president, the television switch is a very good friend of the thinking man. and one can judge the state of media pluralism when one is in the fortunate position of being able to sit in front of the tv in hungary, for example, which is so much maligned, and switch channels in his own country and in various countries of western europe. well, i'm sorry to say to many people - and i don't think i'm telling anything new to our friends in western europe - that the situation is exactly the opposite of what the european union is trying to set up. you know, we are constantly being insulted, hungary, poland, accused of not having freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of the press. meanwhile, in western europe -- and i'm sure most westerners agree that this is the case -- we're seeing more and more of the same kind of attacks on freedom of the press, freedom of the media, freedom of speech, especially with the slogan of hate speech and references to it.
mr president, first i would like to congratulate the commissioners for achieving this great deal for delivering all parts of the mobility package. let me give you three short remarks. first i would like to commend your efforts to increase the overall road safety by the initiative to include new advanced safety features into cars and trucks. now we must make sure that they are going to be accessible to every future car owner, because safety must not become a privilege of luxury-car owners. secondly, while i fully agree that heavy-duty vehicles’ (hdv) co2 emissions should be decreased, i must say that, if we really want to make a change, we must not focus only on tailpipe co2 emissions. instead we have to use a broader well-to-wheels analysis for tackling emissions. thirdly and finally, i do regret that your proposal for a regulation on electronic freight transport information did not come a little bit earlier, in the first mobility package, because it could have served as a solid legal base for the enforcement part of the lex specialis on posting or for the cabotage directive. this way we might end up creating legal discrepancies which may hamper efficient enforcement in practice.
mr. chairman, fellow members, allow me to speak for the people's party's amendment number two and ask you to vote yes on wednesday. it's about the irrigation. in irrigation, the european union is only at 9%. the european union is 6.2 percent, europe as a whole is 9 percent, even america is 12 to 13 percent, asia is 41 percent, and the world is 21 percent in terms of irrigated land. we have a big problem. eu investment support is very complex and difficult to access. the licensing procedures are anti-farmer and the irrigation development grants are too strict. in these areas, these regulations need to be simplified and made easily enforceable. i ask the secretary to take this speech very seriously.
mr president, i would like to repeat the words of my colleagues adrieu and de castro and emphasize that we are against any attempt to use the european community funds that have been allocated to agriculture or rural development. this is because the solidarity that is still lacking today, which would otherwise be quite reasonable between cities, large cities, high-performing cities and declining, impoverished rural areas, is being lost. the commission's proposal also introduces a new and highly relevant element in the current cycle, namely the issue of smart villages and smart technologies. these instruments are further strengthened by this report. the successful implementation of smart villages and the efficient development of rural areas require the pooling of available resources. an integrated approach, financed by several funds and encouraging investment, is needed, and we therefore need a second pillar within the common agricultural policy linked to the funds that affect the other regions. yes, we should separate it from other funds, like the regional funds, 5% for the complex development of smart villages.
mr president, there are 50 million citizens in the european union who belong to national or linguistic minorities, and yet there is no uniform legislation to protect them. indigenous national and linguistic minorities are thus the most vulnerable in relation to the member states responsible for ensuring their rights. the minority safepack citizens' initiative was born out of the need to create an eu-wide framework for the protection of minorities, and has gained momentum with over one million signatures. i hope that the european commission will soon come up with a proposal to ensure the survival of national minorities and their languages. a uniform framework for the protection of minorities is also needed for the eu's associated countries, where there is a great risk of assimilation and a continuing reduction of the rights already acquired. ukraine has been an associated country of the eu since 1 september 2017. unfortunately, it was only after that that the legal violations against minorities increased, the most serious of which is the language article of the education law, which abolishes mother tongue education in minority secondary schools. it is unacceptable that, despite the proposals of the venice commission and the international resolutions, this article has not been amended for more than six months. members of the house of representatives, officers. we, as responsible european politicians, must act to protect minority communities in both the member states and the associated countries of the european union.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for eu funds beyond 2020 is unacceptable in its current form. it would not increase but reduce the eu budget, despite the fact that many member states, including hungary, have indicated their willingness to increase their contributions. the commission's ideas cannot be allowed to be undermined by regional development and the resources of the common agricultural policy, and we must protect the interests of hungarian farmers, businesses and citizens. the hungarian regions and hungarian companies have shown in recent years that they have made good and successful use of the available resources. outstanding growth indicators, a continuously improving fiscal situation, declining unemployment, and rising employment all indicate that since 2010 hungarian regions have been on a path of economic development. hungary has managed to recover from the consequences of the misguided economic policies of previous socialist governments. it is unacceptable that the european commission's proposal now punishes these successful regions, which are performing well by eu standards, by withdrawing funds from them. eu development money is not charity. the hungarian regions are entitled to these resources on the basis of objective criteria. the european commission would now associate subjective so-called rule of law criteria with the mobilisation of eu funds. hungary has consistently demonstrated in recent years that it meets european values in all respects, regardless of the indicators under consideration, and that it is at the forefront of the union. at the same time, no eu institution should be allowed to use development funds as a tool for political pressure.
in writing. on 2 may, the european commission presented its proposal for the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period after 2020. the commission considers that the fact that the aid is linked to the rule of law is a fiction, since the introduction of these subjective criteria would be contrary to the eu treaties, and that the purpose of this proposal is clearly to create an instrument with blackmail potential. the eu's plans to transfer 37 billion euros of funds from the new eu member states are also unacceptable. the integration of the central european and baltic states into the western member states is far from complete. this will only serve to further inflame east-west tensions in the eu. these resources are going to central and eastern europe after we opened our own markets to western companies, which have generated huge profits in our countries. instead, the right approach would be to increase the resources of the member states that protect the schengen external borders and thus the security of the union as a whole.
in writing. as can be seen from the published data, hungary could lose up to 24% of eu funds in the budgetary cycle 2021-2027. i agree that the oligarchs in the orbán government are not funded by eu money, but i also believe that it is not the hungarian citizens who should be punished for the corruption and fraud used by fidesz. i am totally opposed to cutting eu funds for hungary, instead we must prevent them from being stolen. and the way to do that is for eu bodies to decide on the distribution of eu money to the country instead of the orbán government. this would be good for the country, the hungarian people, businesses and the european union. at the moment, only a small part of the eu funds reaches the hungarian citizens, because the orbán government steals it. in the event that the eu funds are reduced, hungarian citizens will have access to even less money, which will be worse for hungary. it is no coincidence that the orbán government did not join the european public prosecutor's office, since it knows exactly that after joining, a significant part of the fidesz shadow government would go to prison for fraudulent public procurement. if the eu were to distribute aid in the future, there would be no risk of misappropriation of public funds. my party, the democratic coalition, has submitted this proposal in writing, and i respectfully ask you to consider it.
in writing. – despite the financial impact of brexit, we must ensure the same level of financing for the cap after 2021. the cuts proposed in the new mff is jeopardising the future of food and farming in the eu, while both the agricultural policy (cap) and the cohesion policy are supposed to be reduced significantly. we are still in time to avoid major damage, to focus on solidarity and progressive financial investments, and to be able to implement new and integrated solutions, such as the smart villages. the cap needs a smart investment approach and technological innovation to create new business models, based on end—users and digital farming technology. these actions can ensure generational renewal, training and skills development and environmental benefits. contrary to the first pillar, which is entirely financed by the eu, the second pillar programmes are co—financed by eu funds and by member states. we should avoid renationalising the cap, while we should improve the own resources. i call on the commission to strengthen the second pillar of the cap and interconnect it with the other funds for the rural areas. let’s be conscious that choices taken in the coming months will shape the union for decades to come.
mr president, on the 200th anniversary of the birth of karl marx, jean-claude juncker held a festive speech… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, support for young farmers is a key issue in preserving or restoring the population of rural areas. the report clearly sets out the main obstacles to be overcome. this includes access to land, this includes access to capital, and reducing administrative burdens is a key issue. more flexibility is needed in business plans to enable young farmers to adapt to changing markets. the report's strong position that funding should be provided within the cap is understandable, but this is doubtful given that the next seven-year budget is intended to reduce agricultural funding by 15%.
madam president, donald trump has moved the us embassy to jerusalem, thereby indirectly recognizing it as the one and indivisible capital of the jewish state. this move has created a critical situation in the peace process, which has been agreed to pursue a two-state solution, with east jerusalem as the capital of a possible palestinian state. it is right that the high representative condemned the us decision, knowing that the majority of member states supported it, but unfortunately, it was not possible to achieve a united action. the us has also made another decision that has adversely affected the peace process, namely the withdrawal from the nuclear deal with iran. it is good that the eu continues to stand by the treaty. euro-atlantic cooperation cannot mean that the eu accepts the dominant role of america. we need an independent european foreign policy.
in writing. – we were all shocked by the news about clashes in gaza, about the dead and injured people. meanwhile, we know the power of images often re-writes the truth. recordings of the injured, dead protesters overshadow the fact that the violent demonstrations didn’t explode on their own but were organised by hamas, which the eu lists as terrorist organisation. hamas encouraged protesters to break through the border fence and to carry weapons, including home-made explosive devices; hamas sent women and children near the border fence and didn’t allow israeli aid transport in gaza on 11 may and on 16 may. hamas didn’t do anything to keep the demonstrations peaceful but rather agitated for violence. so to place responsibility on israel’s shoulders alone is more than an error, it is a serious political mistake. as all states, israel has the right to defend its borders. if there were abuses or unjustified use of firearms, the military will investigate it, the same way they’ve been doing all this time. if we conduct a one-sided policy in judging the situation, it will not contribute to middle eastern peace. we need to stop one-sidedly condemning israel and we need to stand firmly against palestinian terrorism.
in writing. mr and mrs president, on libya, i support the un-led settlement process, the activities of the special envoy for salami and his plans. i agree that we must help the libyan government to achieve political consensus and guarantee security. i consider it important that the report emphasises the need to step up diplomatic efforts with regional actors and neighbouring countries to ensure that they contribute to a positive resolution of the libyan crisis. i also agree with the examination of the libyan crisis in a broader, regional and pan-african context, bearing in mind the key role of libya for the stability of north africa, the sahel and the mediterranean. hungary is confident in the political settlement of libya, and we show this no better than last year when we reopened our embassy in tripoli! the embassies of most eu member states have not returned to the region for years. in addition, hungary considers that the protection of the southern borders of libya should be given serious attention. however, as regards migration, i consider it crucial that the report sees a long-term solution to irregular migration through and from libya in the council, the commission and ms mogherini establishing the legal basis for international migration processes based on direct resettlement. in my view, the resettlement of asylum seekers from outside the union should continue to be on a voluntary basis. that is one of the reasons why i do not find the report acceptable.
mr president, mr commissioner, european citizens today consider the union's greatest achievement to be the freedom of movement without internal border controls. if we want the union to remain important to our citizens, then preserving the schengen system must be a priority. however, it is now clear that internal border freedom requires that external borders are fully controlled, that all member states with an external border fully comply with the existing schengen rules, as hungary does. this energy and cost for the external border should be declared as part of solidarity and therefore the resources of the member states protecting the schengen external borders and thus the security of the union as a whole should be increased. a successful migration policy can only be achieved by fully protecting the external borders. unfortunately, the european union's poor response to the migration crisis, based on mandatory resettlement quotas, and the consequences of this, have led many member states to reinstate border controls at the internal borders of the union. this is a practical threat to the functioning of the schengen area. these temporary border controls must be abolished immediately, because a europe without internal borders means a tangible union for its citizens and it is time that it finally means that for the people of romania and bulgaria.
mr president, i think that mr coelho's report is an accurate, timely and responsible assessment of the current state of the schengen area, and i should like to thank the rapporteur for that. against the populist arguments of some member states, it is important to emphasise that the measures taken to protect the schengen area have indeed strengthened the protection of the external borders of the european union and introduced checks based on appropriate databases. at the same time, the maintenance of internal border controls is in itself pointless. i very much agree with the rapporteur that the amendment of the schengen code should not be an additional opportunity to maintain internal border controls. we must respond to new challenges, but this response must not lead to restrictions on free movement within the schengen area, much less to extreme plans such as the closure or threat of closure of a country's borders. i also agree with the rapporteur that the schengen system, the current system of the schengen area, has not been shaped by problems with the structure and rules of the area, but primarily by the shortcomings of the common european asylum system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include the european union's external borders, in particular the mediterranean, the mediterranean and the black sea.
in writing. continuing its prejudiced and deliberate practice of several years, the european parliament, and in particular the libe committee, is currently waging a real war against hungary, threatening to initiate proceedings under article 7 of the eu treaty. the attacks are being carried out in the context of the migration issue. who do you think, mr. prime minister, is actually violating our european values, as we have proclaimed in the media? the one that protects its own citizens and borders, its christian culture and traditions, or those that instead of protecting the legitimate interests of their european constituents, are best known for facilitating the conquest of space by the illegal muslims? and what do you, the people of luxembourg and the other western democrats, think of president jean-claude juncker's scandalous performance on the anniversary of the mass murder of the spiritual father of communist ideology, karl marx? on behalf of the 100 million victims of the communist dictatorship and the 100 million oppressed, i ask: do you want to serve the values and future of europe with a giant statue donated by comrade marx of china? please take a stand on this shameful matter before president juncker personally demands the martyrs of marxism in central and eastern europe.
mr. president, it has been said that citizenship can be obtained in many european countries by investing in them or by making money. i think you have to see that the citizenship business has become a multi-billion dollar global marketplace that essentially no one has control over. for example, if someone acquires eu citizenship in this way, they are automatically entitled to free movement within the schengen area. but governments are promising tax breaks, access to the european single market, social welfare. however, those who acquire eu citizenship in this way do not undergo any serious national security screening. this opens the way to the european union for people who want to leave their country because they are involved in money laundering, tax fraud or corruption, or who want to do so within the european union. as this is a complex and sensitive issue, s&d has already urged the commission to look at this problem horizontally, in its context and not just focusing on individual member states. it is true that there are differences in procedure between member states. in the vast majority of the member states concerned, this process is carried out by the state itself, but in hungary, for example, it has been handed over to specialised private companies close to the government, which has significantly increased the risk of corruption and security threats. this is particularly repugnant for a country that does not want to accept any refugees, despite having sold almost 20,000 resettlement vouchers. i believe that the citizenship deal must be stopped, that it is neither politically nor morally sustainable. the settlement agreements have no real economic or political benefits, and only further increase corruption and security risks. the commission and parliament should therefore act together to put an end to this practice.
in writing. golden visas, including the hungarian residence permit, represent a huge risk: foreign criminals, corrupt politicians can gain entry and residence in eu member states and in third countries where they would otherwise not be able to get. meanwhile, the use of the money thus received carries a significant risk of corruption. it's no coincidence that the greatest demand for golden visas is in countries where political instability is high due to corruption and where money movements are difficult to track, such as russia or china. the free movement of corrupt politicians and criminals is not only a national security risk, but also a financial risk and contributes to the erosion of democratic interests. i therefore believe that stronger action by the union than at present is necessary. eu institutions should intensify their monitoring of member states' resettlement and reception practices. in addition, the hungarian settlement bonds have the peculiarity compared to the golden visas that the settlement fee was paid not to the state but mostly to offshore companies. hungary is the only country where the business of establishment is loss-making, because most of the profits go to unknown - presumably political - individuals. the commission and most member states must also recognise that, while citizenship is a matter for the member states, the practice of golden visas also places a heavy burden on the union.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague ismail ertug. but i will turn now to hungarian. elnök úr, a futásteljesítménnyel kapcsolatos csalás széles körű jelenség. nem túlzok, ha azt mondom, hogy használt autó vásárlása esetén mindenkinek eszébe jut, hogy talán trükköztek a kilométer-számlálóval. amellett, hogy a fogyasztókat ezzel jelentős kár éri, ez az elterjedt jelenség veszélyezteti a közúti közlekedésbiztonságot is. a visszaállítást lehetővé tevő eszközökhöz való nagyon könnyű hozzáférés és az aránylag könnyű használatuk miatt a nemzeti piacokon az autók 5-12%-a, a nemzetközi adás-vétel során pedig az általunk ismert adatok szerint majdnem minden második autó kilométer-számlálója hamis adatokat, hamis számokat mutat. így a csalásnak köszönhetően akár 2000-től 5000 euró között is növekedhet egy-egy jármű piaci értéke, ami leginkább azokat érint, akik kis összegekből szeretnének autót vásárolni. a helyzet a nyugat-európai átlaghoz képest még lesújtóbb a 2004 után csatlakozó tagállamok esetében. nem hagyhatjuk, hogy a térségünk a nyugaton már leselejtezett és ráadásul hamis számokat mutató autók lerakatává váljon. meg kell tennünk mindent annak érdekében, hogy ez a gyakorlat megszűnjön. jogi és műszaki akadályokra van szükség és létre kell hoznunk egy olyan adatbázist, amely lehetővé teszi a gépjárművek futásteljesítéményének határon átnyúló követését.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report, in agreement with the majority of the european parliament and the socialist and democratic group. unfortunately, mileage fraud is a widespread phenomenon that poses a serious threat to road safety. it also distorts the proper functioning of the internal market and imposes unfair additional costs on consumers, insurers, used car dealers, leasing companies and manufacturers alike. a fraud affects between 5% and 12% of cars on national markets, but in cross-border trade it can affect between 30% and 50% of all cars. the total economic damage suffered by the eu is estimated at between eur 5.6 and eur 9.6 billion. i also consider the database systems used by belgium and the netherlands to store the recorded data on running performance during periodic technical inspections, maintenance and other servicing to be a good solution.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european union youth strategy. i agree that european youth programmes need to be strengthened, improved and adequately funded. this is all the more so as the future of the european project is to a large extent determined by the future of young people who are most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. social exclusion has a serious negative impact on young people's living conditions, civic engagement and health. if we do not act, it will be reflected in the european union's competitiveness indicators. i also think it is important that the report also emphasises the responsibility of the member states, since the core competence for youth policy lies within the member states. i should note that this is particularly critical in the light of the current hungarian government's youth and social policy, as the demands of hungarian students for education policy have been ignored in our country for years, they are closed off from dialogue, and the government sometimes tries to suppress the social participation of young people with police means.
madam president, i am voting in favour of this report because it is in line with the eu's commitment to transforming the european economy into a more sustainable, low-carbon economy. this is not only at the level of slogans, but also in the various policies and measures. the union has taken a leading role in the paris agreement on climate change, invested more than eur 220 million from the eu budget in green and low-carbon projects and introduced clear legal frameworks on energy labelling to better inform consumers. the full potential of the ecodesign directive can be realised by taking into account the full environmental dimension of the product. in the spirit of circularity and economy, these are assembly, durability, disassembly, repairability and recyclability. i hope that these and other recommendations in the report will be taken into consideration by the hungarian government.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! first of all, i would like to thank krystyna łybacká for her excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report, which is a very good and substantial report, and i congratulate her on the work she has done. the report emphasises the importance of education and its economic and social aspects in a changed information society. the rate of youth unemployment remains a concern in several member states, but knowledge and skills are still the greatest value, and the unemployment rate among graduates is still lower than among those without qualifications. it is therefore important that member states invest in improving the quality of education systems and infrastructure in line with current challenges, and update curricula so that students acquire useful, applicable and practical knowledge. the report emphasises the importance of vocational training and dual training, the alignment of educational institutions and content with the world of work, the labour market and contemporary needs, and the enhancement of the prestige of the profession. i am pleased that the report also includes the issue of mother tongue education for national minorities, as the right to use their mother tongue in the education process is a matter of life and death for minorities. the report states that member states should make greater efforts to ensure that learners from indigenous minorities have access to all levels of education in their mother tongue and that institutions teaching in minority languages receive priority support. the recommendations include the acquisition of the full range of key competences such as foreign languages, digital skills, entrepreneurship skills and, not least, lifelong learning competences. the report focuses on teachers: member states must encourage young people to choose the teaching profession, to make the teaching profession attractive and prestigious again, and teacher training has a key role to play in this. following the good example of hungary, the report recommends that member states make greater efforts to improve access to early childhood education, i.e. that member states provide more places in kindergartens and nurseries, especially for children from disadvantaged families. since 2010, the hungarian government has launched a number of initiatives in the field of early childhood education and public education, providing free school meals and textbooks for students. this is an example of early detection that many states would need. i hope the honorable house will vote for this report by a large majority.
mr president i would like to commend both the rapporteur and the commission for their approach, there has been progress in recent years, because the future of europe's workforce will be provided by children from the poorest families, and so digitalisation, early childhood development, which the commissioner mentioned, and the expansion of services and the elimination of segregation are all among the commission's objectives, which is very, very welcome. in these communities, children don't speak languages, can't read or write, often by the age of 15, and can't do math. so in hungary we tried to start new programmes that do keep the drop-outs in, and now research shows that in 15-year-olds, the differences disappear at the age of six or seven, if the kind of education and childcare system that the commissioner and the commission have talked about really comes into being. there's just one other point i'd like to make, if i may, and that is that in high school education, dual education, we're seeing that the companies that these kids are going to be working for need to be much more involved in both funding and talent management.
madam president, please. unfortunately, aquaculture is rarely the focus of policy, although it is a very important sector, as it will increasingly have to make up for the loss of fish stocks due to the tightening and reduction of sea fishing. the eu should therefore give priority to supporting both marine and freshwater aquaculture. i would ask the commissioner, together with my colleagues, to do everything possible to ensure that the level of eu aid in this area is reduced as little as possible after 2020. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that freshwater aquaculture accounts for one fifth of the total sector. it is therefore fair that one fifth of the union aid for aquaculture is allocated to the freshwater sector. in addition, freshwater aquaculture is fundamentally different from marine aquaculture. in this sector, stock conservation, feeding or breeding require completely different practices. therefore, the relevant environmental sustainability standards should take due account of these differences and specific rules should be established for freshwater fish farming. we are all very happy that the european parliament is supporting these objectives with the iturgaiz report.
madam president, please. last week, members of the national guard, a ukrainian nationalist organization, smashed an illegal roma camp in a park in kiev with axes and hammers, and they announced this on their facebook page in advance, and then posted the atrocity on facebook. this was not the first such case, either in ukraine or in the rest of europe. there are member states, like slovakia, where the police are too violent, and there are countries today, like sweden, where neo-nazis are allowed to march. i ask the commission to take action on ukraine, not just on the language law, but also on all the other member states, for the safety of minorities, for the protection of minorities, and in this case i would like to say that in the new european roma strategy it is very important to take on this type of hatred. with jobs, with the creation of common spaces, with the knowledge of common history, these people who attack and who are attacked, the racists and the roma are also unemployed, desperate people whose indifference and hatred towards each other can only be countered with jobs, education.
mr president the regulation is consistent with the commission's targeted and effective regulatory programme and serves to preserve financial stability and reduce risks. urgent action is needed to mitigate the threat to the financial system and to increase the transparency of financial markets. it also clarifies the provision of trade repositories and allows for mutual access. control authorisations act as a deterrent to operators who wish to exploit the market for speculative purposes. tightening penalties also serves this purpose. the regulation amends the rules on pension schemes and increases security. i considered that there was a need for uniform community legislation in this area and therefore supported the adoption of the report.
mr president heavy-duty vehicles are responsible for 5% of the union's co2 emissions and therefore regulation in this area is justified. the current union framework does not allow for the comparability of the information available. this situation therefore does not provide incentives for market players to increase energy efficiency and innovation. the regulation is intended to monitor the co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy-duty vehicles registered in the eu. the data submitted by member state authorities and car manufacturers will be processed by the european environment agency and made publicly available. the proposal will undoubtedly bring positive results in terms of increasing fuel efficiency and reducing air pollution. with all due respect, i supported the motion.
mr president the report contains many positive elements, and some of them are linked to the implementation tool, such as the erasmus+ programme. however, i abstained from the referendum because the rapporteur expects all member states to incorporate a one-sided eu propaganda into their secondary school curricula and to develop a separate, non-existent identity as an eu citizen. the issue of the education and training of migrants is given such an exaggerated weight that it is an acceptance that in the coming years the continent of europe will become the continent of immigrants. the wording of the report, the mandatory requirements, ignores the fact that education is a national responsibility.
mr. president, this is the house. my first word is satisfaction. the european parliament has set out a clear, transparent and achievable vision for the development of the european aquaculture sector in the iturgaiz report, and i was pleased to vote in favour of this. i'm pleased that you've been able to get a number of my suggestions through the report. i would like to point out, however, that one of my reasonable proposals was unfortunately not supported by parliament. fish farmers are currently not rewarded for ecosystem services that are important for nature conservation, while maintaining wildlife of european significance. freshwater lake farms, for example, return the water they use, usually in better quality than when it was taken out, thanks to their recycling systems. these lagoons are a resting, feeding and breeding ground for migratory and migratory birds and for fauna that lives in the local waters. therefore, fish farmers would be entitled to a greening income subsidy in the same way as farmers. this wto green box aid would significantly stabilise the livelihoods of fish farmers. i ask the european commission to propose the introduction of such support in the post-2020 fisheries policy.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the negotiations on the modernisation of the eu-chile association agreement (2018/2018 (ini)) (a8-0158/2018).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday.
the following point is inserted after the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2017 and the union's policy on the matter (2018/2751 ((rsp)).
in writing. ukraine has seen a resurgence in atrocities against ethnic minorities. in the last few months, your extremist organization has attacked several roma camps and their inhabitants. the police didn't arrest anyone. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement on the european economic area (eea) and the eu-ukraine association agreement on the european economic area (eea). i ask the commission and the member states to put pressure on ukraine to speak out against such atrocities, to condemn them and to take appropriate steps to hold the perpetrators accountable and to ban nationalist organisations of this type, as has already been done in hungary. i ask the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to the candidate countries: the situation of roma in the former yugoslav member states is very delicate and there is no adequate legal framework to address discrimination. the situation of the declining minorities is also a concern. i find it intolerable and unacceptable that such incidents should happen in europe. economic measures, even minority protection laws, but we have to prevent that from happening. the term 'anti-gypsysm' is recognised by the european parliament and the european commission. the next european roma strategy should in any case integrate this concept and strengthen the fight against it by means of an action plan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – thank you, madam president. this is certainly not the first time, and much less the last, that we have the chance to talk about the relationship between the european union and nato. and i fully agree with the rapporteur that this has been an important report: it offered the chance to clarify this rather complicated relationship. however, i regret to say that we feel that at some crucial points the report itself has been more of a missed opportunity. instead of clarifying, at some points it has indeed further complicated this relationship that was otherwise not very easy. despite the laudable work that went into the file on behalf of the rapporteur and the shadows, we are not able to support it, on many grounds. let me start with the simplest, and the easiest one. the report makes reference and emphasises, rightly, the security, defence and political challenge that russia poses for the european union. however at almost all points of the text this sounds as if it is an exclusively eastern problem. we seriously disagree with that. just witness the political meddling in the brexit process or a number of european general elections, so indeed this is not just an issue for the east to consider, and this is not an issue for nato’s eastern flank. this is a larger concern to that we need to deal with. the second and, probably much more important, point is that the report claims that article 42, paragraph 7 of the treaty contributes to a stronger nato. i don’t think i need to remind my honourable colleagues that this particular article is not traditionally understood as an obligation for collective response. this is an obligation for a bilateral, individual response between member states. and considered in such a way, actually many analysts think that this this further complicates the issue rather than clarifying it. much as i would like to avoid this, we cannot simply support this file as it stands now. thank you very much.
in writing. the circular economy offers an environmentally friendly alternative to the currently widespread 'buy-use-throw-away' model and requires support from cohesion policy to strengthen it. the demand for circular economy products and services is insufficient, often because they are more expensive than linear products and services, but their negative consequences and impact on climate change are not taken into account. the circular economy is much broader than waste management, encompassing renewable energy, resource efficiency, the bioeconomy, agricultural and fisheries policies, food waste, air quality, research and development, innovation. the circular economy is an effective support for sustainable development and the fight against climate change, and it is therefore important to identify and exploit its potential.
in writing. today marks one year since the european union signed the istanbul convention, a landmark international action against violence against women, and nine months since the european parliament overwhelmingly welcomed the convention and urged the eu and its member states to ratify it as soon as possible. since then, this parliament has been the only institution in the union to remind us that the most important political and human duty of all state and government authorities is to protect and guarantee the safety of the weak and the defenceless. now, looking back on the first year's failure, and the continued deterioration of the statistics, we are forced to repeat our warning. it is unacceptable that the commission and the council tolerate and even serve the blocking behaviour of some eu member state governments, which stubbornly refuse to ratify or seek to limit the convention's powers, by legitimising the obvious obstruction with endless institutional legal negotiations. it seems incomprehensible to the common sense that there is a governmental, political interest behind the opposition to the convention, but in my own country, the orbán government, it is clear that this also reflects the worldview of the leaders of the ruling party, which has elevated the contempt of women, social oppression, to a political agenda. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and girls, and for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and girls.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. this is the fourth time that we have met with a prime minister of the union to discuss the future of europe. we usually argue about fine and noble principles, but i'm getting the impression that we're constantly disconnected from reality. we are trying to tell european citizens from the top what their future will be and what is important in their lives. i think that's the exact opposite of our mission. we sit here to represent the people and not to control their thinking. in april this year, eurobarometer will be conducting a survey at eu level, asking, among other things, what the topics that are most important for the future of the union should be in the upcoming european parliament election campaign. the survey clearly shows that the three most important issues are migration, terrorism and unemployment. i think that these issues are far from being addressed in the way that they should be, and when we do talk about them, we rarely offer a real solution. i find it hard to imagine that the european citizens who are following this debate are content to sit back in their seats, feeling a little more secure about their future. i'm asking you to talk about these issues in a real and constructive way, because that's what democracy is all about.
mr president i voted in favour of the report and i congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have taken part in this very important work. we, the socialists, are committed to a sustainable and economical circular economy, and monika smolkova has successfully represented this in her dossier. i am glad that we are also approaching the issue of the circular economy from the perspective of cohesion policy, because we are talking about a new political priority in terms of the financial cycle. cohesion should not only reduce the territorial disparities between cities and regions, but it should also be borne in mind that rural areas are a prominent part of cohesion policy, including rural settlements. we know smart cities as regional policies, but the new smart villages initiative also gives this policy a lot of room to do in addition to rural development policy.
mr president i voted in favour of the report and i congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have taken part in this very important work. i agree with the continued disbursement of macro-financial assistance to ukraine, in particular as a key instrument for stabilising the ukrainian economy, which is under pressure from the war and remains weak. at the same time, we must continue to monitor that the eu assistance is a real stimulus to the ukrainian reform process and that the ukrainian side fully fulfils its commitments in this regard. as vice-chair of the association committee of the parliament of ukraine, i am also well aware of the contradictions in the fight against corruption and the many problems arising from the slow pace of reforms, and i appreciate the concerns expressed here in the european parliament. moreover, the joint statement of the three eu institutions on the application of conditionality and strict controls to the ukrainian side, as well as the continued reform efforts of our ukrainian partners - most recently the long-awaited verhovna rada decision on the establishment of a high-level corruption court - provide, in my view, sufficient guarantees for the effective and orderly use of the eu's macro-financial assistance.
mr president i support the strategic approach of this important report because it not only provides a comprehensive picture and calls for a frank confrontation with the extraordinary security challenges facing europe, both in terms of quality and quantity, but also points the way for the european union to respond to them. among the changes that will require a unified decision and eu action in the near future, three stand out: the emergence of hybrid security risks, including cyberwarfare, which makes it urgent to exploit eu/nato synergies. secondly, the reduction in the weight of eu members in nato as a result of brexit, which will be offset in the coming years by making dialogue and cooperation with nato more flexible and effective, while strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union. the continuing russian expansionist policy of putin is the third, which regularly tests the strength of the alliance on the eu's immediate border, in ukraine and elsewhere, while seeking to divide the eu by all means, and unfortunately finds partners in the leaders of some member states. a stronger, truly common eu... (the president took the floor).
in writing. it had to be clear to the european commission and the democratic governments of the union that the sorban model was contagious. this is not only reflected in the abuse of power and the anti-democratic reforms, but also in the level of communication. in poland, when the populist law and justice party came to power, it took over the constitutional court by legal administrative means. they got away with it without a constitutional majority. this was the key to the success of their further reforms. then they started to systematically take over the media. in 2017, they began to take over the judiciary through the retirement of judges and other legal means. let's not forget that in hungary, it was precisely by such methods that andrás baka was removed from the supreme court without any consequences. the initiation of the first article 7 procedure of the eu has somewhat stunned the polish government, but it has not fundamentally shaken them: following orbán's example, they are trying to delay the process with communication tricks and some disguises. but this is all a travesty. while the eu digests the amendments and negotiates with the government, a series of new judges are elected and fired. the european commission and democratically-functioning governments must realise that the gradual erosion of the rule of law and inaction are a deadly combination for democratic values and the commission must urgently go to court and ask for the suspension of the polish measures before something irreparable happens.
mr. president, i have to go. in recent years, millions of migrants have arrived in europe, and tens of thousands of those crossing the mediterranean have died. is the european parliament responsible for this tragedy? yes, because it gave you false illusions. this parliament has adopted by a majority the report which speaks of migration as a positive process to be supported. the majority in this parliament has declared that there can be no distinction between those who flee persecution and economic refugees who come here in the hope of a better life. it's just a letter of invitation, and the solution is not mandatory quota distribution. more and more countries are rejecting it, they see the examples, they don't want to see a parallel society in their own country. the solution is to address migration at its roots in africa, to put energy into that, and since it's not a short-term process, until then, borders on land and at sea should function as real borders.
in writing. the networks and routes of human traffickers in the mediterranean need to be tackled as soon as possible, because in the new system, it is the traffickers who decide who can come to europe. they don't care about any human life, and unfortunately, european ngos are helping them do that when they're still rescuing migrants from libyan waters and transporting them to europe. according to the european border and coast guard, they let the crowded rubber boats go to sea without water, food and life jackets, hoping that the ngo rescue boats would find them quickly anyway. if we really want to help, we need to be able to stop thousands of migrants from risking their lives and the lives of their children by making it clear that no one can enter europe illegally. it is important that the separation of economic migrants from those who are genuinely entitled to refugee status takes place outside the external borders of the union, as less than 3% of illegal migrants arriving in italy have been found to be genuine refugees. today, we have finally reached the point where more and more eu leaders are acknowledging and voicing what the hungarian prime minister has consistently advocated since 2015, that the protection of external borders should be a priority. we must regain control of our external borders, both on land and at sea. this would require effective action, as the eu is still managing situations that are being forced on by smugglers, rather than enforcing their will at the external maritime borders.
in writing. we are relieved that the spanish government has rushed to the aid of african migrants who were rescued on board the aquarius. when you got in trouble, you needed someone to help you. the european union is also working to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the current crisis, and that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the current crisis. first and foremost, chancellor angela merkel and her 'willkommenskultur' and brussels' misguided immigration policy, which is putting the whole of europe at risk. the humanitarian crisis of the aquarius shipwreck victims is only the consequence of the actions of these politicians, and with them, greedy human traffickers and irresponsible pro-migrant civil society organizations. we have to show solidarity, but not like this. father boulad is right, and he was right to use the metaphor of the ship: no one can be expected to overload the ship with the risk of sinking, because then everyone will be lost. and this ship, in its present state, is europe. i welcome the efforts of the italian minister for the interior and his german counterpart, horst seehofer, to protect europe's external borders. hungary and the visegrad four believe that the union must radically change its immigration policy.
madam president, please. i would add three specific points to parliament's position. first, we call for a genuine multi-stakeholder partnership in the future, but again without reference to the different religious communities, without which there is clearly no social stability and no fight against poverty in most acp countries. think specifically of the great mediating role of the catholic bishops' conference in the congo, facilitating one of the world's most serious humanitarian crises. i would also like to say to the council and the commission that the new agreement must not leave the churches out of the eu-acp cooperation structure. second, we need to improve the human rights situation. yes, that's right, i can only agree. we must have zero tolerance for systems that trample individual or collective liberty. in the future, there can be no business dealings with such regimes. finally, i would like to discuss paragraph 19 of the ep resolution, which i find very problematic. the ideological approach to migration, planned immigration, is simply to trick people, to send false messages instead of making it a priority to help people in need on the ground. it's a scam to deceive them with promises of inclusion, of employment, of integration. it is a fraud to confuse the situation of refugees and migrants in such a way that they are not the same. why would you do that? because they are significantly hindering the solution to the huge refugee crisis that exists all over the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! the current european roma strategy may not have delivered on its promises. the main reason for this is that a very strong document was passed through the european parliament, while the commission was not fully committed to bringing to the council the very important points without which this strategy cannot succeed: targets, legal basis, penalties, and the main problem is that roma are not able to participate in these programmes, either in their design or in their implementation. that's why they're not so effective. i feel that there is a great lack of financial control, financial control, because we are facing a much more complex situation than in 2011. roma employment is still below the national majority average, while we see 30 million people missing from the labour market by 2060. it is an unacceptable luxury for europe to leave the poor of europe untouched. active job creation is perhaps the most important thing right now. we have achieved a great deal, and i thank mrs panayotova for reporting on it in such detail. i agree with you on early childhood development and all the other issues. i appreciate the commission's position, but we have to move on. one of the big problems is that i see that even in the parliamentary material there are more and more false reports about roma or about roma policies in member states. this is very, very detrimental to the objective picture, we are not learning enough from good practices, and i think we need to scale up this strategy to include the 100 million poorest people in europe, of which only 10 million are roma.
blue-card question. – my dear colleague, you have helped me so much from the socialist side to push this dossier and we have talked so many times about what sort of financial background there should be behind it. would you be reconsidering your socialist view on whether the multiannual financial framework (mff) should have a bigger budget for the many more poor people in europe, because when we started this dossier we had 43 million poor people in europe and about six million were non-integrated roma. now if we grow the document because poverty has doubled, would you be considering mentioning this dossier in the mff? with a loan budget line of course.
mr president together with vice-president lívia járóka, who is the rapporteur on this issue, i am proud that in 2011 the ep adopted the european roma strategy under the auspices of the hungarian presidency. contrary to the accusations in the sargentini report, hungary has since been at the forefront of implementing the strategy. but i am ashamed of how little the eu and some of the member states concerned have done to implement their strategic commitments. the eu spends many times more on illegal immigrants than on its own roma citizens and their integration. the conclusion to be drawn from this is that we must not stop at the polcorrect verbalization, but must finally act for the social, economic, educational and health integration of millions of roma living in extreme poverty! our post-1920 strategy requires us to do that.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague malinov for taking this initiative. as vice-chair of the ep's committee on culture and education, i think it is very important that we also talk about languages, language learning, language recognition and diplomas at the european union level. language is the foundation of a child's cognitive and social development, so learning in the mother tongue is primarily important. in addition, multilingual competence has benefits in all areas of life. both minority and majority languages and cultures contribute to europe's diversity, and there is a consensus on this. the protection of minorities contributes to the ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity of europe. in democratic societies, mother tongue education and learning in the mother tongue are fundamental rights of all people, including indigenous national minorities. the state must guarantee this right. moreover, the mother tongue is the best tool in education, because students are able to meet the requirements of school most effectively in their own language. unfortunately, the recent proposal on the approach to language teaching and learning published by the european commission does not pay enough attention to minority and regional languages. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, i call on the european commission and the council to develop proposals for the mutual recognition of language tests and diplomas, thus supporting not only the spread of the major european languages but also of the languages spoken by minorities, regional or indigenous in europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for putting this important matter on the agenda. it is a very timely debate, given the developments in relevant international forums, in particular the cites convention on international trade in endangered species, and also in some of the eu member states and, of course, at eu level. a number of measures have been taken since we learned about the latest increase in elephant poaching in several african countries. we have seen some encouraging signs since then, but many elephant populations are still at risk. the greatest danger certainly comes from the trafficking of ivory from source countries in africa to consumer markets in east asia. some eu member states are unfortunately used as transit hubs by the traffickers. of all the ivory that is being seized by national customs authorities, by far the biggest share concerns such transit shipments from africa to asia. under the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, we have worked with member states since 2016 towards the tightening of controls and increasing of relevant capacities. we are also working with third countries at both ends of the trade flow: to help them fight poaching on the ground in africa and to reduce demand for ivory in asia. in addition, we have increased the development cooperation budget to fight elephant poaching and with contributions to the african elephant fund. the current discussion about domestic ivory markets in the eu and elsewhere must be set against this broader global background. the conference of the parties to the cites convention adopted a resolution on this at its last meeting in 2016. the resolution calls on countries to close their domestic markets for commercial ivory trade if there is a legal market that is contributing to poaching or illegal trade. already we have in place strict rules on ivory trade in the european union: imports of ivory into the eu and exports from the eu have been banned since 1975 in respect of asian elephants, and since 1990 in respect of african elephants. for ivory items that have been in europe for a long time, domestic trade is strictly regulated with a system of certificates and demonstration of legal origin by traders. the rules were tightened further in may 2017 with the adoption of a specific commission guidance document. since then, the export of old raw ivory from the eu has no longer been possible. eu member states have unanimously supported this additional tightening of the rules and are following the guidance very closely, thereby ensuring uniform application of the rules. with this measure, the risk that ivory exported from europe could fuel the demand in destination markets, and indirectly also the poaching in africa, has been significantly reduced. but we did not stop there. towards the end of last year the commission organised a public consultation to gather relevant data and to consult widely on possible additional measures regarding exports and sales of ‘old world’ ivory items. the consultation attracted many responses and a clear majority of respondents called for far-reaching measures against domestic ivory trade. those calls are often based on the precautionary principle, rather than on any specific evidence for systematic links between the legal ivory trade in the eu and elephant poaching in africa. on the other hand, eu stakeholders, such as makers of musical instruments or antique dealers, used the consultation to highlight the impact of any additional restrictive measures on their sources of livelihood. the commission is currently reflecting on the way forward and it will report to parliament and the council in the context of its progress report on the wildlife trafficking action plan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, elephants are under huge pressure, and poaching is the leading cause for that. while we are having this discussion here in the european parliament, two elephants are being killed out there in africa. they may be extinct within ten years in the wild. poaching is fuelled by the illegal ivory trade, which has increased dramatically recently, and the illegal trade in ivory is also closely connected to legal trade. our current regulation is not sufficient and not effective. there are the problems of documentation, the green zone, on-line trade, and so on and so forth. as a sign, in 2016 two tonnes of illegal ivory was seized in the eu. organised crime networks are closely related to wildlife crimes and the illegal trade in ivory. drastic steps are needed, and parliament called on the commission to make them. this is a popular cause; almost 70 % of european citizens support a complete ban on the ivory trade in the eu. we must listen to them; we must act.
deputising for the author. – madam president, corruption is like a disease that you can’t always see, but it systemically undermines the well-functioning of our societies, degenerates our democracies and decays citizens’ trust in politics and in the european union. transparency international’s corruption perception index shows that there are serious problems all over the eu. but also there are huge differences among the member states. we also have to speak about our losses: the cost of corruption. a study commissioned by the european parliament estimates that the cost of corruption could go up to eur 900 billion annually. just for comparison, the eu’s annual budget for 2018 is eur 160 billion. theoretically speaking, if we took a tough stance against corruption, the functioning of the eu would be free or almost free for the european taxpayers for the next five years. scandals related to the misuse of eu funds are revealed on a daily basis. according to olaf reports, the highest number of investigations have for years been related to structural funds, with most of the cases concentrated in a few a member states, which are mostly the recipients of those funds. in some of the member states, like in my own county – hungary – there is systemic political corruption related to the eu funds. in others, such as slovakia, for example, it seems that organised crime groups are benefiting from eu funds. and these are only the tip of the iceberg. as the azerbaijani laundromat case showed, there are serious problems related to corruption even in countries like denmark. so there is an urgent need for action, and the eu should take an important role in rooting out corruption in all its forms. the european commission, however, has failed to move forward over the past four years and has even taken a step backwards from its 2011 anti-corruption package by abolishing the biannual anti-corruption report. this was capable tool to analyse the european landscape and provided the european citizens with credible, comprehensive and comparative data and assessment on corruption, as well as highlighting the weaknesses and also the good practices of the member states. therefore, we regret very much in this house that the commission decided to abolish this exercise. anti-corruption recommendations in the european semester are good additional tools but do not substitute the overall picture given by the report. but to credibly pointing out to member states, we need stronger anti-corruption activity and control in the eu institutions as well. the 2011 package has also foreseen the eu’s participation in the council of europe’s anti-corruption group, greco, which could facilitate the independent evaluation of the eu institutions as well. but the negotiations on that are stalled. still, there are a few promising steps. first is the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). the eppo, hopefully, will help in fighting fraud and corruption in relation to eu funds. but it is not a sufficient tool alone. a couple of prosecutors will not be able to fight fraud and corruption fully and in a systematic way, and in fact some of the main beneficiary member states of eu funds are not willing to participate. the second is the regulation on the rule of law proposed for the new multiannual financial framework. this instrument could actually play an important role in incentivising the member states to play by the rules. but this proposal is still waiting for approval by the co-legislators. all in all, the balance is rather negative. therefore, with my colleagues in the committee on budgetary control (cont), we ask the following questions: what was the reason behind the abolishment of the eu anti-corruption report and why did the commission not present the already-prepared second report? secondly, the anti-corruption report and the european semester recommendations are not alternatives of each other. how does the commission intend to complement the semester recommendation in order to tackle other aspects of corruption? and last but not least, to improve the independent scrutiny of the eu institutions, shouldn’t they participate in the cooperation of greco?
blue-card question. – mr coburn, you mentioned that you do not support law harmonisation and european level actions against corruption, but what would you like to do with those corruption cases which have a cross-border nature where corruption activities are happening in different member states, and organised crime groups are playing the game between the gaps of the independent national member states’ authorities, and they always win this game? how do you manage this problem when the individual member states’ authorities are not able to effectively step against those international organised crime activities?
madam president, my dear officer. organised crime groups are plundering eu funds in order to influence decision-making, creating a 'state capture'. there are parties in this parliament that are misusing eu funds and then using the opportunities to create anti-eu sentiment. in hungary, the eu funds are corruptly obtained by oligarchs close to the government, who then use these funds to buy independent media products, which are then used to promote anti-eu government propaganda. understand that corruption is not just a financial loss for the european union and taxpayers, but it is directly destroying the democratic rule of law and the european union, the institutions of the european union, all around us. if the commission does not take decisive action against corruption in the member states and in the union, we will lose all that we owe to the democratic rule of law and the european union.
madam president, please. it's time to adapt to the new methods of the perpetrators and their lack of restraint. the european union is already facing the challenge of a new type of corruption, more rampant than ever and now systemic, such as the one practiced by the orbán government, the abuses of power for the personal enrichment of those in power, sometimes covered by legislation. the commission has a duty to deal with the increasingly brazen government corruption in the interest of hungarian and other european taxpayers, but even more so the european council, which should finally use its full political weight to take action against corrupt governments and politicians. the hungarian and other european taxpayers rightly expect this and will hold the european institutions to account.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is a coincidence, or rather the force of destiny, that we are launching this important resolution on the very same day that putin indulges in the international spotlight of the opening of the world cup. so let us remind him that spotlights cast dark shadows, and hidden in the deepest shadow of his ruthless regime we find dozens of innocent victims: oleg sentsov and many more; illegally detained, tortured, harassed and humiliated, ukraine’s tatars and other patriots whose only crime is to oppose the occupation of their homeland. so with today’s resolution we aim to fulfil our moral and political duty as european democrats by trying to save mr sentsov’s life and help regain his freedom as well as that of all the other names in the resolution held in russian captivity, deprived of freedom and human dignity, and even of legal and medical assistance. we must not cherish the illusion that we can halt moscow’s illegal actions overnight, but today we can urge putin to read this strong appeal by the european parliament also as an opportunity, an undeserved chance to use the spotlight of the world cup to improve his record by immediately releasing mr sentsov and all other political prisoners.
mr president i would also like to congratulate mrs zoană on her excellent work and to make a few comments on this otherwise really great achievement. in order to ensure comparability and coherence of union statistics on the structure of agricultural holdings, it is necessary to build infrastructure to support smart solutions and to encourage the acquisition of digital skills. however, this process cannot be treated in isolation from rural communities digital developments are already mainly targeted at urban areas. therefore, in addition to coordinating all the funds affecting the countryside - for example, along the smart villages concept - there is a great need to extend statistical monitoring and methodology to small farms. i am pleased that the smart villages pilot project i initiated is nearing completion, that our second preparatory action is about to start and that, in parallel, the so-called smart villages result indicator is already included in the proposal on the future of the cap. thank you very much.
in writing. child and forced marriages are unfortunately still prevalent in various parts of the world. child marriage is a global problem that crosses countries, cultures, and religions. more than 750 million girls have been married before the age of 18, including 250 million girls before the age of 15, a number that is increasing significantly in times of instability, migration crises, armed conflicts, and natural and humanitarian disasters. although most countries set a minimum age for marriage, which is usually 18, many countries continue to provide exceptions to the minimum age for marriage. child brides are often victims of violence, suffer from a number of health problems, are deprived of education and future paid employment, are placed in a dependent position, and therefore are more likely to become and remain poor, so poverty is inherited. research shows that child marriage will cost developing countries trillions of dollars by 2030. a holistic and comprehensive approach is needed to tackle the problem, to address the root causes and to extend gender equality beyond the traditional sectors of education and health to all other policy areas. child, early and forced marriage is a clear violation of children's rights and a form of violence against girls and boys that needs to be addressed globally.
thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much to the committee for its comments. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday. my fellow citizens! allow me to greet you all with respect and affection, and the lord constable, tonight. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the 73rd session of the un general assembly (2018/2040 (ini)) (a8-0230/2018) tabled by mr eugen freund on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs.
the next item is the debate on the report on the role of cities in the eu institutional framework (2017/2037(ini)) (a8-0203/2018) tabled by mr kazimierz michał ujazdowski on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday.
the next item is the debate on the report 'three-dimensional printing: intellectual property rights and civil liability' presented by ms joëlle bergeron on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0223/2018).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday. and now i'm going to hand over the floor to my colleague in the house of representatives, my colleague the vice president, and i apologize for the tone of voice i used to lead the meeting in, but i was at a great music festival in sopron, my hometown, over the weekend, and that's why i have that tone of voice. anyway, thank you for your patience, and i wish you a very good job. have a good night. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would like to thank the commission for having responded to the attacks on roma in ukraine last week and for perhaps starting tomorrow with an agreement between parliament and the commission to allow a thorough investigation of the matter and to bring the instigators and perpetrators to justice. especially since there were already fatalities in these attacks last week. it is unacceptable that anti-gypsyism takes lives! i believe that the way to end this - both inside and outside the eu - is to create economic integration for the roma. the precondition for this, the precondition for the abolition of anti-gypsyism is economic integration. this would mean a lot of tax revenue for europe and a lot less spending. i would like to thank bulgaria for allowing the european roma strategy to develop further this semester and i would like to ask the austrian presidency to put on its agenda and adopt the roma strategy post-2020 with a focus on education, early childhood education and factories. thank you so much.
thank you very much. mr. president, i have to ask you... ukraine has opted for european integration since 2014, and the eu is supporting it through a number of instruments: visa-free travel, association and free trade agreements, and financial support. the association agreement obliges ukraine to guarantee the fundamental human and minority rights and to guarantee security for those living on its territory. it should not be ignored that extremist acts against national and ethnic minorities have increased in recent times. in addition to the abuses of power, ultra-nationalist organizations have been formed whose activities are dangerous for minorities. a vivid example of this is the bombing of the headquarters of the transcarpathian hungarian interest protection organization, or the murder of roma last week. members of extremist organizations have carried out six pogroms against roma in the last two months. in the latest attack, a 24-year-old man was killed and several others were injured, including a child. i thank president tajani for bringing this matter to the attention of the house at the beginning of this session. ukraine appears to be reforming, but the situation of minorities in the country is becoming more difficult. their constitutional rights are being steadily curtailed, and they face discrimination on a daily basis. i therefore call on the leaders of the european union to monitor developments and to call on the ukrainian authorities to ensure the peaceful coexistence of their citizens. thank you, thank you.
madam president, thank you for your time. the bulgarian presidency inherited two difficult tasks: one on brexit and the other on migration. there are fundamental issues that have not been resolved in the brexit negotiations. that is the territorial scope of the agreement, something about the border between northern ireland and ireland. this raises the imminent danger that there may be no agreement. this is something that should be avoided. we have to represent the interests of the eu27, but we can only make a deal if we take into account the fair interests of the british. there are positive developments on the issue of migration at the end of the presidency, partly thanks to the italian elections. the shift in focus from tackling integration and migration to preventing it, protecting borders and abandoning mandatory quotas can be seen as positive developments. thank you very much.
mr president on behalf of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation, i welcome the austrian presidency's priorities, especially in the fight against illegal immigration. for years, we have been saying in this house that europe should focus on protecting its external borders instead of inviting migrants to a banquet. we must be able to protect our own borders and provide security for our citizens. we hungarians have unfortunately experienced what it feels like to have tens of thousands of uncontrolled migrants flooding our country, our capital's railway stations, main squares, as well as what security means if we can protect our borders and thus prevent illegal migration. austria's aim is to focus on areas where cooperation is possible and to respect the principle of subsidiarity. that's our position too. we say no to mandatory resettlement quotas, and we say yes to protecting our borders, and we are also committed to helping our fellow human beings in their own country. you can count on our support, mr. chancellor.
in writing. i consider it natural that the austrian government should focus its eu presidency on a small number of issues that are currently of the greatest importance for the future of the eu. i also agree that, in addition to digital competitiveness and the integration of the western balkan countries, security, border protection and migration are also relevant. however, i would point out that the presidency in its turn must act in accordance with the principle of 'honest broker'. this also means that in the now particularly sensitive refugee and migration issue, the austrian government must not give in to its own domestic political considerations or to the pressure of certain nationalist, populist political forces or governments, but we expect it to make maximum efforts to facilitate the negotiations for the establishment of a common european asylum system in practice. as a socialist politician and a european citizen, i am also concerned that the austrian presidency's declared priorities do not include any actual steps towards the concrete implementation of the european social pillar. you recalled that in their important agreement of principle at gothenburg, eu leaders identified this as an important task for the commission and, in time, for successive council presidencies. the promotion of social integration, which most directly affects the lives of european citizens and the future of the union, is a particularly important political challenge at the beginning of the ep election campaign, and i therefore urge that the austrian presidency should consider its success as the main criterion for assessing its work.
in writing. i warmly welcome the austrian presidency of the eu. this is happening in the midst of a european migrant crisis, which poses an extraordinary challenge to our austrian neighbours. however, it is a welcome development that after a long struggle, the european council summit last week finally reached an agreement on migration, which can be seen as a first decisive step a real paradigm shift in the transformation of european immigration policy. austria can play a real key role in this process of steering and mediating. as a member of the visegrad four and the central european region, hungary is a committed supporter of the austrian presidency's programme for a protective europe: strengthening the european security and defence policy, combating illegal migration and abolishing mandatory distribution quotas. i wish all the success to austria, mr. sebastian kurz.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i voted in favour of the report, as the prerequisite for the comparability and coherence of eu statistics on the structure of european agricultural holdings is the development of infrastructure to support smart solutions, in particular broadband internet, and the promotion of digital skills. without that, we don't have a picture of how investments benefit rural communities, and the system is a hotbed of corruption. i am pleased that the smart villages pilot project i initiated is nearing the end of its successful implementation, that the second so-called preparatory action is about to start and that, in parallel, the so-called smart villages performance indicator is already included in the proposal on the future of the cap. we will also extend this to all other funds affecting the countryside, in particular the regional and social funds. thank you very much.
mr president i voted in favour of this report. i agree that climate diplomacy should be a strategic priority of eu foreign policy. the eu needs to take a leading role in this area too, and we need to finally develop an eu climate diplomacy agenda. the paris climate agreement, the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals all give us tasks to do. however, the commitments must be translated into practice. i agree that climate-related developments affect geopolitical stability, food and drinking water supplies and, therefore, regional security of the populations concerned, and, of course, they are also linked to migration flows. in addition to taking the lead, we're showing smart examples in our own urban areas with smart city solutions, and we're also lifting up rural communities with the smart villages initiative. thank you very much.
madam president, please. the eu summit made progress on migration, moving from a focus on accepting migration as a natural phenomenon to a focus on managing it. the priority is to prevent migration. to this end, the tasks were decided: the external borders of the union should function as real, genuine borders, and controlled regional centres for the assessment of asylum applications should be established, some of them outside the territory of the union. the efficiency of returns needs to be increased, and last but not least, one of the most important decisions was to abolish the mandatory quota for the admission of migrants. this also means that the dublin regulation amendment drawn up by the libe committee, which contains these mandatory quotas, has in practice failed before it was formally tabled in the council during the legislative process. thank you very much.
in writing. the european council meeting last week made it clear that the refugee crisis that peaked in 2015 has now completely subsided. in 2015, 1 million 46 thousand illegal immigrants arrived in the european union, in 2016 the same figure was only 374 thousand, then 161 thousand in 2017 and in the first five months of 2018 a total of 41 thousand illegal immigrants arrived in the european union. this means that as many people are coming to the union now as in the years before the crisis. the refugee crisis has now been resolved, thanks to a common european solution. unfortunately, however, there are still some governments, like the league, which is part of the hungarian, polish, or italian coalition governments, that continue to spread their propaganda about the millions of muslims who are invading and populating europe, unjustifiably instilling fear in the people of europe. so the refugee crisis is over, but the political hysteria continues. as european politicians and parties, our priority is to present the facts and continue to promote the implementation of european solutions to the refugee crisis as the 2019 european parliament elections approach.
in writing. the main topic of the last european council was again asylum and migration. the prime ministers of the member states were passionately debating what to do about refugees and immigrants, and how to tighten up asylum policies. this is at a time when the number of refugees has fallen dramatically compared with previous years. the prime minister was right when he said there is no migration crisis, there is a political crisis. and that's what it is. that far-right populist politicians are misleading people in order to gain power and keep power, creating fear and hatred in italy as well as in hungary. and yet there is not a single word about inclusion, integration, cooperation. it's a mistake to think that these debates are about immigration, about asylum. the debate on the future of europe has been going on for a long time. orbán, salvini and the others are not interested in refugees, but in how they can shape europe and the european union to their own will. and that's exactly why we can't, we can't compromise with them. we must recognize that europe is divided today. but that's why we need to present a clear alternative. we want a europe that protects liberal democracy, an open and inclusive europe, not a europe based on an alliance of populists. to achieve this, we need political courage and innovation, not cheap compromises.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we should not be debating as if we had a blank slate, or as if we were at the start of the process. tomorrow we shall have the final votes. indeed, we in the committee on transport and tourism have worked very hard and managed to achieve a very good compromise package, which will prevent fragmentation of the transport market and give protection to companies, workers and, last but not least, consumers – and by that i mean the citizens of europe. we also received a lot of letters in support of the tran committee position from all parts of europe, from romania to denmark and also from germany, which clearly proves that the tran position is valid and balanced. i would call on all colleagues to support the tran position tomorrow during the vote. the transport sector is a highly mobile sector. it cannot fit into the regular posting of workers’ regime. we must not play with the transport companies, as that might be fatal for the competitiveness of the european industry and would jeopardise jobs and core fundamental freedoms of the european internal market. also, politically speaking, the tran committee position could help to move western and eastern, and northern and southern, parts of europe closer together, and that is clearly essential at this moment in time. otherwise i am afraid that we might make the divide even worse.
in writing. the principle of equal pay for equal work must not be allowed to be used by western protectionist politicians as a campaign slogan to squeeze out more competitive workers temporarily working abroad. hungarian companies in the transport and transport sector with competitive, modernised fleets may also face extra costs and additional administrative burdens due to stricter requirements on driving time, breaks and rest periods. if the driver is not able to spend his leisure time in the truck cabin but has to stay in paid accommodation, not only can there be a demand for comfortable trucks for drivers, but the logistics industry as a whole can also be prepared for additional costs due to rising accommodation costs and changing operating economy. this is expected to lead to further cost increases for other companies as well as to price increases for customers across europe. meanwhile, according to an authentic professional database, there are only 13 guarded and accommodated resting places in germany, the economic and industrial centre of the eu, which would be suitable for the resting time under the new rules and for the safe guarding of vehicles, while almost 13 million high-performance trucks are on the roads of the eu.
thank you very much, mr. representative, you are a great expert in this area, our subject is very important, but i ask my colleagues to keep the time.
motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be published at a later date. i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers.
please, let's just keep the time. i only let him talk because it's really important to be with the congolese, not about the congolese. this is a very important message. thank you.
commissioner stylianides, thank you very much for your commitment. i now give the floor to our minister of eu affairs in the eu presidency, ms karoline edtstadler. thank you very much for being here and for your serious commitment. we are listening to you. the floor is yours.
i'll close this discussion. my fellow citizens! allow me to make two announcements. i'll take both in english. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the debate on the oral question on the guidelines to member states on preventing the criminalisation of humanitarian aid (o-000065/2018 - b8-0034/2018) [2018/2769 ((rsp)) ], addressed to the commission by mr claude moraes on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
mr. president, i have to go. allow me to say that i am a social anthropologist, a human rights activist, i have run many humanitarian programmes myself - usually from my own resources - and that i fully understand the good intentions of my colleagues, but i must say that i agree with president tusk, who said at last week's summit that all ships, including those of ngos, that sail in the mediterranean must comply with the laws in force and must not interfere with the work of the libyan border guards. i'm glad we started this way yesterday. i'm not here to protest the life-saving aid that ngos provide. however, as stated in council directive 2002/90 on facilitating the unlawful entry, transit and residence of third-country nationals, measures should be taken to combat facilitating illegal immigration. not only in the context of illegal border crossing in the strict sense, but also when it is done to maintain networks for the exploitation of people. the eu rules in force do not exclude the possibility of criminalising those who assist illegal immigrants, but rather say that in all member states sanctions can be imposed on those who assist people to enter the territory of the state illegally. helpers and instigators must be punished. there are some ngos that are not on the right side. they are trying to hide this, and civil society organisations must respect the eu regulations in force without exception, and as we heard, the hungarian government's aim was to enable the judicial authorities to take action against those who transport for money... (the president quoted the member)
in writing. the first global study on migrant smuggling, released on 13 june by the vienna-based united nations office on drugs and organized crime (unodc), revealed that in 2016, at least 2.5 million migrants were smuggled across borders by human traffickers, generating more than $7 billion in revenue. migrant smuggling has become a global crime that requires a serious response. they don't care about any human life, and unfortunately, european ngos are helping to do that when they're still rescuing migrants from libyan waters. most of the migrants are economic migrants. without water, food and life jackets, they are transported to sea in crowded rubber boats, hoping that ngo rescue boats will find them quickly and rescue them from the libyan coastal waters, and then transport them to europe. it is necessary to say this: the practice of ngo ships rescuing migrants from libyan coastal waters and then transporting them not to libya, a few kilometres away, but to europe, hundreds of kilometres away, must be stopped, as this has become a very strong pull factor. i therefore agree with the conclusions of the eu summit on friday that in order to make the commercial activities of human traffickers completely impossible and thus prevent many tragic deaths, the factors that lead people to embark on the dangerous journey must be eliminated.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the lifeblood of the european economy. we must help and facilitate their work in every possible way. the new survey carried out by the commission can provide a good basis for providing support to smes in line with current circumstances and needs. i think it is important that the proposal in the parliament's motion for a resolution actually includes the whole group of companies concerned. abuses must be prevented. in addition, particular attention should be paid to ensuring that smes have sufficient information on the procedures related to sme status. i ask the commission to put more emphasis on information.
the rapporteur. mr president! the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the further deterioration of the situation in the former yugoslavia. as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues, as well as the secretariat, in short all those who contributed to the preparation of parliament's resolution and legislative decision. but it took a longer journey to get here. the negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, were concluded on 30 june 2015 and closed on 31 december 2015. looking even further ahead, i regard it as a development of historic importance that the armenian nation, freed from the oppression of the tsarist russian and ottoman turks, and then the soviet empires, has finally found its rightful place in the community of european peoples as the eastern bastion of a unified europe and the first christian state, leaving behind the era of mass genocide and communist dictatorship. it is a great honour for me, as the rapporteur of the european parliament, to be able to take an active part in this process and to express my good wishes from this place on the occasion of the centenary of the short-lived independence of the armenian state proclaimed in 1918. in the context of its newly regained independence and the continuation of the democratic transition process that has begun almost three decades ago, the european parliament stands ready to give all possible support to armenia and the armenian people, who have stood up courageously for democratic change, and to the prime minister and government of nikol pashinyan, whom it has put in charge of the country, in order to continue the reforms and the modernisation of society that have been initiated, in accordance with the partnership agreement adopted with a common will, at an accelerated pace, to fight corruption, to launch economic development, to build the rule of law and to guarantee human and civil rights, and to find a peaceful solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the european union has been facing serious crises for many years. its weakening strength and fragmentation make it difficult to cope with the challenges of further integration and the migration crisis. this is why its relations with its immediate neighbours - for example, the eastern partnership members - are important. these relationships are win-win. the development of relations with the eu can benefit not only armenia but also the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have to go. it was a great pleasure for me to be in armenia with mr mcallister, chairman of the foreign affairs committee, and the members of the ad hoc delegation, and to see for myself what was happening there. to tell you the truth, i didn't come to believe that this modest, quiet-spoken prime minister pashinyan was capable of ruling the streets and catalyzing such a radical change, a velvet revolution. that was one of my basic feelings, and the other was that i was very afraid of mr. pashinyan - i mean the oligarchs, the geopolitical situation, the russian influence, the republican party members left over from the old system. i was reminded of the assassination of the former serbian prime minister. i was very afraid of the armenian prime minister, the situation is fragile, so we have to step up to the side, because if he fails, the change of regime fails. so it's very much a one-factor situation, it's a one-factor decision, and that's why i thank my colleagues for all of your support for armenia and the prime minister. i thank the high representative for her extremely positive attitude, and in that spirit, we will vote tomorrow and continue to work together.
in writing. as a hungarian representative, i am very pleased to be here today to discuss our common future with the prime minister of poland. when we talk about the future of europe, we must be clear about one thing. without a strong poland, we cannot speak of a strong european union. so we should not be having a low-level ideological debate today instead of the topic given in the title. what we need is a dialogue, not a lecture. so let us ask the questions: are we able today to re-vision europe in the spirit of the founding fathers? poland has a vision today. only those who have a vision of the nation and the family - and therefore a vision of the future - can have a true vision of europe itself. the visegrad countries, and the biggest of them, poland, are also looking for answers to the problems of the whole of europe. even if it means that we are often taught untrue, arrogant lessons. that was the subject of the prime minister's speech today. a friend is someone who understands your past, believes in your future, and accepts you for who you are.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me start by firmly condemning every act, speech, intention – direct or indirect – that negatively addresses my people, the roma, and every discriminatory practice against them. in the era of fake news, we can never be 100% sure what is reality and what is overreaction or misinterpreted, so i contacted mr salvini’s cabinet, with the help of colleagues here in the chamber, to learn the real plans so that i could help the italian government to make roma integration in italy a reality instead of an utter failure. according to the latest news, mr salvini downplayed his comments, arguing that the intention of the census proposal was to examine how european funds were being used and investigate life in the camps. the eu roma strategy, as you said, was initiated by parliament and endorsed by the hungarian presidency in 2011. it was designed significantly and swiftly to improve the situation of the roma, but there is a lot to do and this debate can speed it up. in this regard, if the latest news in this case is true, mr salvini is partly right. there is an acute need to examine whether the european funds that were used for the situation of the roma have effected change or not, for better or worse. nowadays, every fifth european citizen is poor: more than 100 million. the next workers’ generation will come from these poor families. less than 7% are roma and 5% to 10% have a migrant background and came in the last 30 years. so what can be done? with this report that you are talking about, ms jourová, that the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) is preparing, you can make history and big changes. parliament initiated this in 2010 and the commission was not strong enough to take it on board to the council. in the end, the council even vetoed the monitoring. without these mistakes that you made, we would not be debating this issue here today, so what i’m asking mr kurz to do is to upscale this strategy to an eur 120 million anti-poverty strategy for all european citizens. we have the knowledge and the money to do this and i think it is the only way that this issue can be solved. we are counting on austria especially as, in the 1980s, it became the first country to resolve persecution of the roma after we were hit by molotov cocktails in oberwart and so many people died.
the rapporteur. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. every year, 30 million travellers arrive in the european union from 59 visa-free countries, about whom the authorities have no information before their arrival. europe is a welcoming place for tourists and business travellers alike. those who come to commit terrorist acts or other crimes, on the other hand, must be identified well in advance of their arrival. this is made possible by the new european passenger information and authorisation system. at the moment we have no preliminary information on visa-free visitors to the external schengen border. the etias information system is a tool to identify and assess the identity of persons and to identify the identity of persons who are in danger of being subject to an unauthorised entry or a refusal of entry procedure. it is clear that there is not enough time to carry out adequate checks and cross-checks at the external borders. so we needed a system that would allow for more efficient and faster risk analysis. this will also make it possible to avoid long waiting times at the external borders. securing our borders and protecting our citizens is our top priority. the etias shall address the information gap by allowing the cross-checking of data of visa exemption applicants with our other systems. this automated system identifies security, illegal, migration and epidemiological risks for visitors to the schengen area without a visa. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, including the rules on the application of the schengen acquis, and shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules on the application of this regulation. the etias central unit shall be responsible for the processing of the data referred to in paragraph 1 and shall be responsible for the processing of the data referred to in paragraph 1. it will be a simple, fast, cheap and effective tool that will not be a visa in any way. by making the process as simple as possible, we wanted to keep europe open to those who come for tourism or business, but also to make it safer. there were three aspects to the negotiations, and i didn't want to create a more complicated procedure than the visa applicants, because that would take away from the essence of the visa waiver. i have tried to maintain coherence between etias, the schengen information system and the border registration system. i didn't want to overload the mechanism, render it useless. i think we've achieved all of that in the negotiations. the mandate given by parliament has been largely implemented and i can say with confidence that etias will always operate in full respect of fundamental rights and the protection of personal data. i would like to thank the estonian and bulgarian presidencies, the commission and above all my shadow colleagues, mrs guillaume, mrs stevens, mr deprez and mrs vergiat, for their constructive approach to the dossier and for the cooperation which has taken place in a good atmosphere. i would also like to thank the political advisers, katrin huber from the libe secretariat and the assistants for their long, persistent and hard work. in the course of four political trilogues and 26 technical meetings over a year and a half, this provisional agreement was reached, first under the estonian presidency, then under the bulgarian presidency, and finally we were able to close the file successfully. i think etias is the schoolyard of good corporate law.
the rapporteur. mr president, officer, i have to go. i thank my colleagues for their supportive comments and i must tell those who have expressed concerns about the system that i would like to assure them that in the negotiations we have tried to address all concerns in some way and parliament has been able to adopt a text that has exceeded virtually all expectations. so i think we've done everything we can to take into account the interests of the western balkans as well, and i would add to mr. marias that no, it cannot happen that a citizen of a visa-free country is put in a worse situation than an illegal immigrant. but that is precisely why we need to apply the legislation in a proper and normal way. the etias will be one of those pieces of legislation that have been created recently by the co-legislators in the field of security and only through smart border control and interoperable eu information databases will we be able to combat the ever-changing methods of criminals and terrorists. we need to know more about who is coming and with what intentions, and who is committing crimes inside and outside the union. tomorrow there will be three votes on etias: one on the regulation, which had to be split in two because it gives europol new tasks and therefore the europol regulation needs to be amended. however, the etias regulation did not allow us to amend the europol regulation because the participating states are not the same. the third vote will be on the joint declaration of the council and the parliament, which is merely intended to speed up the process of participation of schengen associated countries in etias. i ask for the support of my colleagues for these three votes, and i hope to get it tomorrow. thank you, thank you.
in writing. the european commission's draft would set the level of commitments at eur 165,6 billion (1% of eu gni) and the level of payments at eur 148,7 billion (0,9% of eu gni) for 2019. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is of particular importance for hungary that, as in 2018, regional development policy will receive a significant amount in 2019, €47.1 billion. this is good news for the implementation of hungarian full-scale projects, which are expected to continue to be covered by the eu budget in 2019 by the invoices submitted by the member states. the hungarian people's party delegation, however, rejects any attempt to jeopardise the migration agreement reached by the heads of state or government at the eu summit in late june and to weaken the protection of the external borders through the eu budget. hungary will not join the european public prosecutor's office, which the hungarian government considers a sovereignty issue, and on this basis the creation of such an institution would be contrary to the position on the europe of nations. we strongly oppose the use of the eu budget to pressure for membership.
mr president i was elected to the european parliament in 2009 as the first deaf member of parliament. i have always been passionate about ensuring that as many people with disabilities as possible can exercise their right to vote in any type of election. and at the same time, we're getting as many people with disabilities elected to political office as possible. this should be framed by electoral rules that are consistent with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i am proud that my country, hungary, with the new electoral law adopted in 2013, has made elections completely accessible, whether it is for the blind, the deaf or the disabled. hungary is the only country in the european union where deaf people have been elected to both the national assembly and the european parliament. however, only one party, fidesz/kdnp, has provided this opportunity for people with disabilities and for politicians. it's time to prove it not just by legislation, but by action. i hereby call on all parties in the eu27 running for the european parliament to give people with disabilities a real chance. thank you, thank you.
rapporteur. – mr president, the european citizens’ initiative (eci) is an eu instrument intended to bring citizens closer to the european union. if a million people sign an initiative then the commission can be invited, i stress that word, to launch legislation. parliament has an input into this process in that it holds hearings and – this is the point of contention – plenary debates. the commission published a new draft regulation about a year ago and would like this to come on stream in 2020. i prepared a thorough and cogent report. my grateful thanks to all who helped. i’ve had numerous discussions with the commission and with stakeholders. the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) voted for this text with a convincing majority. i am asking you today to give me a mandate to begin interinstitutional negotiations. i would like to add here that the council is well disposed towards these negotiations. it’s a significant window of opportunity. you will all have received a massive input from a group of ngos demanding that you deny me a mandate, basically because my text does not contain a commitment to holding a plenary debate. this demand is based on a serious error of understanding to the effect that a legislative text can change this house’s rules of procedure. no, this is a breach of our internal rule of law, our checks and balances. if i am denied a mandate, as the ngos are demanding, the whole process will come to a halt and a favourable moment will have been lost. so i am asking you to vote in favour of my mandate. if you do so, i shall initiate an amendment to the rules of procedure (under rule 227) to amend rule 211 so as to ensure that plenary debates are held on successful ecis. i’m delighted to say that i have the full support of the s&d group, so please vote ‘yes’.
thank you very much. i would also like to clarify a concept which has been raised several times in this debate, and the rapporteur has said that pro-european parties, those who are pro-europe, will certainly support young people volunteering in other member states, but those who are anti-europe will certainly not support it. dear madam rapporteur, and fellow members of parliament. we are not anti-european, we are against the united states of europe project. we love europe very much, we love european values, but we believe in a europe of nations, and we love and value european values so much that we defend them. for example, my country, hungary, in a way that protects the hungarian borders, protects the schengen borders and says no to mass migration. so let's be clear: we are not anti-european, we are pro-european, but we are against both mass migration and the plan for a united states of europe. thank you, thank you.
in writing. i am pleased that the legal framework for the european solidarity corps has finally been completed and that the programme can officially start its work. the programme allows young people to apply for solidarity-based projects in areas such as education, health, the environment and disaster prevention. the programme will be able to generate a total of eur 375,6 million over the period 2018-2020, of which 90% will be allocated to voluntary projects and 10% to the employment part of the programme. the programme will also be accessible to young people who otherwise have fewer opportunities, such as those living with disabilities or in closed and marginalised communities, and those with learning or health problems, with tailor-made information and opportunities provided by the european commission and the member states. i am glad that the european union continues to support volunteering and volunteer projects. it is important to motivate young people and enable them to get involved in such community-building programmes in as large a number as possible.
thank you very much. my fellow citizens! i'm so sorry that the taxi driver who took me to the airport in budapest this morning, a young man in his 40s, couldn't come with me. he asked me, "kristina, is it true that we, at our age, will no longer have a pension?" is it true that this is the direction europe is heading? and you also asked me if it's true that there's no longer going to be a social security-based health care system? that it's all private now? and he added that there's talk of self-sufficiency as the new watchword. but i thought i was self-supporting, "he said", when i was paying pension contributions and when i was paying social security contributions. now that we have this debate about supporting structural reforms, it would be very good to pause for a moment and clarify what exactly we mean by structural reforms and to ensure that people, european citizens, are involved in this debate of absolute value. thank you very much.
mr president the commission representative was kind enough to tell me in great detail how grateful greece must be for the many gifts it has received from the european union. but he forgot one gift, and that is the mass migration that greece received from the european union and from mrs. merkel. the images you see on the internet of the suffering of the greeks are shocking. the commission representative says that tourism has been boosted, services have been supported. yeah, but then what happened? how much damage has been done to tourism in the islands and so on by migration? in services, have you quantified the damage that migration has done to greeks and what is the balance now? thank you very much.
mr president it would be nice to think that after an industrial accident or an occupational disease, the employer is trying to reintegrate his worker, the unfortunate worker, as much as possible, and we would think that this process is usually done in the spirit of friendship, solidarity, love. as a lawyer, i'm sorry to say that's not typical. in fact, it is typical that employers deny responsibility, and there is a need - as my colleague said in another context - for legal assistance: access to justice, access to the truth, in this type of labour disputes, and in general, to enforce the rights of workers, often against employers, either to reach a good agreement or to have an effective legal dispute to enforce rights. thank you very much.
mr president unfortunately, so-called politically correct speech is so pervasive and so confusing that people are often overwhelmed by the fact that, again, this is political correctness when it comes to very serious phenomena, and real phenomena: sexual harassment is like that. if we were not living in a world of political correctness that is confusing and false, then the "me too" campaign, for example, could have had a consequence -- a good consequence, as my dear colleague has indicated alongside me -- that men would start thinking about what the modern male role would be like in the modern world. that a real man doesn't need to harass a woman, and a real man can distinguish between consensual, consensual flattery, flirtation, courtship, and humiliation, violence, violation of human dignity. we should talk about it, and we should bring it up with our male colleagues. thank you very much.
mr president territorial autonomy is one of the eu's values, but there are countries that stifle such aspirations. in romania, the state rejects even the suggestion of autonomy for szeklerland, which is inhabited by a majority of hungarians, and is increasingly threatening the hungarian population. the recent court sentences of istván beke and zoltán szőcs have caused outrage: the bucharest military court sentenced them to less than a year in prison for crimes committed with pyrotechnic devices, having already served their sentences in pre-trial detention. however, the supreme court, without any evidence, classified their act as an act of terrorism and sentenced them to five years in prison. the european parliament regularly, and this week as well, deals with specific human rights violations in different parts of the world. it is time to discuss the cases that have occurred in our countries. thank you, mr president.
mr president i object to two incidents reminiscent of the ceausescu dictatorship and ask for the support of the house and the president on these matters. as i pointed out at the beginning of july, almost three decades after the fall of the national communist regime, hungarian political prisoners are once again being imprisoned in romania. istván beke and zoltán szőcs were sentenced to five years in prison on trumped-up charges, without evidence, in order to intimidate the hungarian people. the method of the anti-hungarian communist era is also recalled by the emergency government decree, which, in order to simplify hungarian-language education, entrusts the teaching of the romanian language and literature in hungarian elementary schools to romanian specialists who do not know hungarian. this brutal measure is in its own way similar to the anti-minority ukrainian education law. please stand up for the hungarians in transylvania.
mr president in 2019, ukraine will hold presidential and parliamentary elections. the campaign has already begun, and european and euro-atlantic integration, european values and reforms are important elements. despite this, the ukrainian parliament has not yet adopted the new uniform electoral code, has not renewed the central election commission, whose mandate expired in 2014, and has not created clear and equal conditions for the representation of national minorities living in the country. in 2014, the central election commission of ukraine redrawn transcarpathian individual electoral districts without taking into account the law in force, according to which the formation of individual electoral districts should take into account the boundaries of administrative units, the interests of local communities and national minorities living in the area. i hope that the european parliament will not only monitor the ukrainian elections, but also speak out against discriminatory and illegal measures such as the one in 2014 when the transcarpathian hungarian community was prevented from having an individual representative in the supreme council. ukraine must not restrict the existing rights of national minorities, and must guarantee the admission of representatives of minorities to their legislative, representative and local bodies, as this is one of the main criteria of the rule of law. thank you, thank you.
mr president today is a special day, as we have the opportunity to hear from two prime ministers of two eu countries. in the morning, a good student, mr. tsipras, and in the afternoon, the so-called bad student, viktor orbán. it may be very interesting for analysts and for the population of the european union to compare the two models, as mr. tsipras, who is applauded, celebrated, is said to have almost done very well. not quite yet, because as the socialist speaker said, it has not yet handed over its entire economy, its entire sovereignty to the european union, but it is well on its way. politically, it did very well, because you know what the key words were: building mosques, mass settlement of migrants, allowing same-sex marriage... let's hear the other model this afternoon and let the european citizens make their choice in may 2019! thank you very much.
mr president we hungarians have recently taken a tour of legal history with mrs. sargentini as our guide. he took us into the world of soviet state theory, when, you know, the point was that we don't need laws, we don't need norms, we just need revolutionary consciousness, which shows us the right way, in the justice system there is accountability. but now, in this greek debate, we can at least see what kind of norms this certain revolutionary consciousness is imposing on member states, and especially, of course, on the more disadvantaged southern and eastern european member states: accepting mass migration, building mosques, same-sex marriage, and, of course, in the world of economics, privatization of national treasures, enrichment of various international banks. we didn't choose this path. i look forward to this afternoon's debate and the opportunity to compare notes. thank you, thank you.
mr president there's a taboo on sexual harassment that has a strong connection to political correctness, and that's not even in this report. right, we're always talking about harassment of women, so harassment of women by men. i'm not here to criticize harassment by women, but harassment by a male offender against a man who has been harmed. i find it very interesting that while this is obviously extremely hurtful, painful for the victims, i hear this from art colleges, from young artists. they must endure terrible humiliation at the hands of harassing homosexual men. it would be great to break this taboo now, to put political correctness a little bit further away, and even if it might hurt some lgbtq and other interests, to bring up this part of the sexual harassment issue. thank you, thank you.
mr. president, thank you very much. today is a special day because we have interviewed two european union prime ministers and two very different sets of values are at odds. the choice between these two values will be made, in practice, by european citizens in may 2019. the once-better-looking greek prime minister, tsipras, was here this morning, brought to his knees by the european union, and to the delight of most of the audience, he listed the slogans that the union wanted to hear, what had happened in his country: accepting mass migration, building mosques, allowing same-sex marriage, and, of course, not least, privatising national treasures, enriching foreign banks. we hungarians have sent the international monetary fund home, we have prevented migration, we have said no to mass migration, we have defended our own borders, we have defended the borders of europe, we are protecting and defending the christian european roots and values. i say it again: in may 2019, we will have the opportunity to choose which values europe wants. thank you very much.
mr president, mr prime minister and ms vergiat. we just heard your speech, in which you mentioned who applauds whom. you are a communist. your comrades have destroyed my country. do you have the guts to lecture us on democracy and the rule of law? the report says hungary is threatening the rule of law. that's a lie. this is especially true for those who criticize hungary, judith sargentini, the left and the libe committee. because what is the rule of law, my fellow congressmen? the rule of law is when it is not the self-interest of individuals, not the self-interest of groups, but the rule of law. first, the treaty of the union gives parliament the power to act on the basis of community law. the report acknowledges in point c that it has not found enough cases under community law against hungary and therefore also examines issues not covered by the treaty. the report mostly lists such matters as being of exclusive national competence. to go beyond the law of the union is arbitrary, it's against the treaty, it's against the rule of law. second, since roman law, the rule of law has also meant that the accused is given a fair opportunity to defend himself. in this debate that lasts for several hours, the representative of hungary can speak for only five minutes. this is not the rule of law, this is the trampling on of a thousand years of rule of law. shame on you. are you afraid of words? thirdly, it would not be possible in a state governed by the rule of law to bend the special, guaranteed voting rules of the treaty to their own convenience, to disregard abstentions in order to get a better result. they are the ones who are constantly talking about the violation of the rule of law, democracy, they are the ones who are educating hungary, who themselves have no idea of following even their own rules. they do all this to take revenge on the hungarian people who oppose mass immigration, on viktor orbán who stops illegal migrants with a fence. owl tells sparrow he's got a big head. this is a phrase used to describe those who accuse the innocent of what they themselves are guilty of.
mr. president, thank you for your time. in 2015, the european parliament already accused hungary of stopping illegal migration by fencing the border. that's why we should have been recognized, instead of the accusations in this report, expecting the quota migrants to be accepted, to fulfill an otherwise failed decision. the report speaks of racism and anti-semitism in the form of violent acts. i reject that slander. the report makes grave findings about the growth of corruption, the limitation of the rule of law, the unprecedented governmental dominance of the media. these criticisms are real, they are based on facts, and one can ask: how free is hungary today? the motion requires a two-thirds majority of the votes cast in favour. i will abstain from the final vote, which means i will not support this pro-immigration report and i will not accept the initiation of the article 7 procedure, whose final sanctions would otherwise hit not one government but an entire country. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president. mr prime minister! one thing we both know for sure is that you're a liar. you lie in this community, in our family, to the representatives here, and you lie at home, to our society, to hungary, to your countrymen. he says he wants to protect hungary from brussels. you don't have to protect hungary from brussels, because it's our family, and believe me, you don't have to protect europe from some kind of danger that only you can paint in the sky. what are you trying to protect? that regime, that sinful, stinking regime that he built with his oligarchs. that's why he's doing this policy, because he wants to protect this regime from the law and the european rules, the european community. you have taken european resources and used them to build an empire at home. mr prime minister! his biggest crime at home is that he took away the belief that we are all hungarians, because he divided hungarian society. he divided neighbors into neighbors and introduced into the home what only goebbels knew before, that he divided all members of hungarian society into good and bad. it started with you taking the coffin from every member of the nation and expropriating the national coffin. this, this coffin, mr. prime minister, which i now take back symbolically, because the country belongs to all of us, not to your guilty regime. you poisoned, you poisoned our common drinking water, and that was a huge crime, for decades, it will define the daily life of hungary. that's why we have to vote on this article tomorrow, the seventh article of the sargentini report, so that you and your descendants will learn that no one can do this to their own country. thank you very much.
mr. president, i have to ask you... hungarian citizens, dear colleagues, including women and mothers, are watching with indignation how they are being protected from themselves here, against their will, because they are allegedly not allowed to practice their religion freely, there is no freedom of expression, they are restricting their assembly and social rights at home. and none of this has anything to do with reality! therefore, dozens of hungarian civil society organizations oppose the vote on the sargentini report in an open letter, and several deny the errors in fact. petitions are being filed by thousands of individual citizens. they were outraged that the text was not based on the activities of tens of thousands of well-functioning ngos, but on the deception and unreality of mr timmermans's few foreign-funded ngos. but these ngos lost their credibility in hungary when they kept quiet about the socialist government's police abuses. let us note that this is a political tool with two aims: firstly, to punish hungary for its firm and consistent stance against illegal immigration, and secondly - and let us note, colleagues - to divide the people's party as much as possible before the ep elections. we all know that the article 7 procedure is not valid against our country. so this report doesn't blame us, it's the people who wrote it for purely ideological reasons. if you still believe in a united europe, please vote against this report tomorrow.
thank you very much, mr. president. i believe this report must be stopped now. i'm asking you to vote against it tomorrow. as we have heard from the commission, there is no specific threat to the rule of law, so there is nothing to justify voting in favour of this report. in 1989, ladies and gentlemen, i was a 15-year-old teenager, and we still put up posters for fidesz every night, hoping for a better europe, a healthier europe. it seems to be the same now. and then i spent 20 years advocating for roma issues, studying at ceu, graduating from western universities, and i put a lot of work into the position that fidesz gave to a gypsy woman, a young gypsy woman from central and eastern europe in 2004, to protect the 16 million roma in europe, to make good use of it. that is why it was particularly important that fidesz delegated me to the vice-president of the european parliament on the side of the pp. and that is why it is particularly painful to see you here, even my fellow german mps from the people's party, who are really well aware of the very strong hungarian position in the european roma strategy - we made this strategy for europe, we want to protect the poorest - they know exactly that today hungary is the one who is really doing everything against the segregation of gypsy children in schools. we were the first country to bring this up in 2004. you're talking about violating the rights of roma children. we have children who go to school from the age of three, integrated kindergarten, and by the age of six, they no longer need to be developed. we have dual vocational high school programs combined with athletic programs that really train the best workforce for your multi-million dollar corporations. by 2050, we realized that if we don't educate the roma, all the states in central and eastern europe and western europe will be economically disadvantaged. so i think we should thank the hungarian government for what it has done for the roma, not condemn it. moreover, such unfounded accusations seriously undermine the credibility of the european parliament and the european commission. on the basis of these arguments, the introduction of such an article 7 could be envisaged in the future for any member state. so please, let's prevent that by voting no tomorrow. thank you, thank you.
mr president, mr prime minister, please. i don't think you and i have any kind of common ground, any kind of understanding. which, by the way, is perfectly natural in a normal democracy: you have one kind of political view, i have another. the problem is that in hungary, you call the political opposition a traitor. the previous speech by mr sajer illustrated this situation well. i must say that i find it disappointing that you come to the european parliament and instead of having a factual debate you are still talking about hanging, stigmatisation and punishment. i have to say, mr. prime minister, as many of my colleagues from other political families have told me, there is no question of that. the aim of this report is to bring hungary back into the european family. we don't want hungary to belong to a different kind of europe. but you are right, mr prime minister, that this is really about the future of europe, and we really do not want you to take hungary to the europe of salvini, farage or steve bannon. hungary is my country, not just yours, mr prime minister, and i want to see my country in this democratic europe of today, and not in the other one that you are trying to build right now. thank you very much.
mr. president, i have to ask you... hungary decided in april 2010. the voters of the economically and morally ruined country gave a two-thirds majority to the fidesz-kdnp party alliance. the orbán government immediately embarked on the public and economic renewal of hungary. the direct speech and action already punched in the eye of those who had benefited from hungary's situation. in january 2011, during the debate on the hungarian presidency, i mentioned the witch hunt as a fidesz representative, seeing the unfounded and unacceptable comments. we hungarians have a clear vision of the future. we stand by our christian democratic roots and say: the hungarian people do not want illegal immigration, and we do not want to be lectured on issues that belong only to us. fidesz is the only party in the european parliament that has sent a member with a disability and a member of the roma parliament at the same time, and you want to lecture us about democracy? i'm wondering why no one in the report cares about the plight of the disabled. one in ten hungarian citizens is disabled. do they not count? who objects to the fact that in many european parliament documents, there are attempts to give extra resources to organisations that help migrants or illegal migrants, often at the expense of people with disabilities, by taking them away from them? it is clear from this indictment, this inconsistent and biased indictment, who hungary is turning a blind eye to. we must say that this report is not in the interests of hungary or the european union.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i'd like to thank you for the opportunity to respond very, very briefly to mr. carver's call. yes, i think it is very important that there is a representative of roma origin in the european parliament, and that is why i find it shocking that two texts could have been left in this report, which suggest that the extreme right-wing hungarian guard may have been active during the fidesz era, or that the roma murders took place in our era. the perpetrators of the roma killings were convicted when the orbán government came to power, and viktor orbán's first activity after the 2010 elections was to ban the hungarian guard from operating in hungary. under the socialist governments, the hungarian guard was allowed to raid the gypsy settlements. thank you, thank you.
in writing. this debate is not really about hungary, but about europe. about the kind of europe we want to live in. one where the people have the final say, or one where the will of the people can be ignored. my fellow members of parliament! the hungarian government held a referendum two years ago asking people for their opinions on immigration. the voters overwhelmingly said no. this year, there was an election in hungary, and the main topic was immigration. fidesz has a two-thirds majority. many of you are now preparing to accept a report that condemns hungary for, among other things, not accepting immigrants. if they do, they're abusing their power. but it's good to know that this is not primarily harmful to hungary, but to the european union. because you can't build a community on violence. i therefore ask you, if you care about the future of europe, to respect the democratic choice of the hungarian people and to vote no to this report.
in writing. there is nothing more shameful than a dictator not taking responsibility for the system he built, but instead covering up for his own people. it is a special and historic moment for members of the european parliament to see such a man in the european parliament today. prime minister! it wasn't the hungarians who violently obstructed a referendum with bald-headed thugs, it was you. it's not the hungarians who have silenced or bought up a significant part of the independent press, but you. it was not the hungarians who unilaterally rewrote the election rules for fidesz, but you. it was not the hungarians who made the party media out of the public media, but you. it was not the hungarians who stole the eu funds that were sent to hungary, but you. i only know of one brother-in-law who is under investigation by the eu anti-fraud office for corruption, your brother-in-law, mr. prime minister. here, they don't criticize hungary, but the hungarian government, they don't consider hungarian families to be thieves, but the orbán family. don't hide behind the hungarian people, don't hide behind the nation, but behave like a man and take responsibility for your actions for once in your life! all 12 points of the sargentini report are about your system, your government, your decisions. and yes, hungary must be protected, but not from europe or soros, but from you!
in writing. the report on eu-us relations, written by elmar brok, presents the 'america first' policy of donald trump as a serious challenge. on the other hand, i firmly believe that this political philosophy is very appropriate. in the international arena, the european union or hungary has to put itself, its values and its interests first just like america. i disagree with the report's criticism of the united states' withdrawal from the negotiations of the un global compact on migration. hungary takes a similar position when it clearly and firmly rejects illegal immigration and defends the identity, religion and culture of europe and the nations that make up europe. the hungarian government has also decided to withdraw from the process of preparing the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration and will not participate in the marrakesh conference in december to adopt the document, as the controversial agreement is completely contrary to the country's interests. therefore, although we consider the hungarian-american and eu-us relations to be of paramount importance, the representatives of the hungarian people's party delegation will abstain from voting on the report.
mr urbán crespo, i saw that you showed a blue card and i know that you have very good knowledge in the field. i let everybody speak a little bit longer so, if you don’t mind, i will not open this procedure because we are running late. do you agree to this? it is the same as in the previous debate with no catch—the—eye and no blue cards. thank you very much for your understanding.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to the decision of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2016 on the position of the union within the association council established by the treaty on european union and in particular article 5 thereof:
six motions for resolutions have been received pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report on the state of eu-china relations (2017/2274 ((ini)) (a8-0252/2018) by mr bas belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs.
madam president, please. the eu-china summit in july 2018 called for a bilateral strategic partnership. as a member of the 16+1 cooperation, hungary also supports a partnership based on common values and interests. however, even if our relations are developing favourably, the question of democracy and the rule of law, and the safeguarding of political and human rights, cannot be avoided. in this area, china has experienced a continuous decline over the last five years. european democracy cannot make a deal with a communist dictatorship. we must continue to stand with the muslim uighurs in xinjiang province, who are being subjected to political re-education and deported from their homeland by the atheist chinese regime in their millions. ilham tohti, a uyghur university professor, was sentenced to life imprisonment just four years ago. we cannot stand by and watch the brutal deprivation of rights of the tibetan people. the essential precondition for the desirable chinese partnership is respect for human dignity, human and community rights.
madam president, please. it is regrettable that, contrary to the clock change, the western balkans region has no longer been given priority in president juncker's speech this year. again, the need for consistent messages and politicization of the region is being ignored. unfortunately, the attitude of some member states and party alliances towards the belgrade-pristina dialogue is also inconsistent. the eu has been calling for a solution to accelerate integration processes for years. in turn, the attitude of some eu member states has only reinforced the status quo. member states should help the parties, not fear their own political comfort and alarm themselves and others with recent events. we should not reject the proposals of the parties concerned without listening carefully to their arguments. we have seen in the past few days that the lack of united support has again stalled the parties on the road to agreement. the balkans settlement cannot be held hostage by a few weak eu member states, which could endanger the security of the whole region and of europe as a whole.
in writing. europe is in a worse state today than at the beginning of the millennium. the economic crisis may have been over, and the migration crisis has eased, but in the meantime, a rift has emerged that is now dividing europe into deep chasms. the gap between rich and poor has widened, with consequences for national and european politics: populism has reared its head, and, like my own country, more countries have begun to trade democratic values for the small price of daily political profit. unfortunately, the orban model is a contagious one, and neither the barroso nor the juncker committees have taken any firm action against it. today, viktor orbán's policy has become an example for many countries to follow: before our eyes, it has grown into a european movement: poland, slovenia, italy are following the path that viktor orbán paved. as the political battle in europe becomes more desperate, the key questions remain unanswered: the commission has failed to act decisively to help fractured social groups, to do enough for press freedom, to move towards transparency and to fight corruption. and we have not been able to find a common solution to the refugee situation. this process is not certain to be reversible, but the only way to succeed is for the union to take small steps towards a more transparent, cleaner, freer and united europe, with european values at its core and the rights of european citizens at its core.
in writing. four years ago, i was among the members who voted in favour of the juncker commission's programme, which was a political programme to strengthen the eu's unity, international weight and competitiveness, and to give its citizens greater social security and social justice. but it is precisely in these areas that i see the greatest weaknesses in the eu's unity, exploited by nationalist populists in some member states (unfortunately by the current leadership of my own country). the commission therefore expects the european commission to take the initiative and deliver on two main issues, in addition to reforming the common migration policy, for the remainder of the ep's mandate: - what? in order to promote the important principles and objectives adopted in the gothenburg declaration, the commission should now push member states to act with proactive, targeted plans to achieve the most tangible, concrete european values and achievements for european citizens, namely the social europe. - what? the increasing security challenges in the union environment and the changed euro-atlantic context require the building of a strong and autonomous european security identity and capabilities, which requires rapid and effective preparatory and organisational work by the commission and the eeas. the remaining months will also require more concrete results and renewed efforts to rebuild the unity of the eu, including countering destructive tendencies that call into question the chances of a united europe and would limit the ep's election campaign to the limits of fear-based migration, xenophobia and terrorism.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow meps, you are all pro-immigration. well, the thing is, you guys have failed this sargentini report. you didn't win. they didn't get two-thirds of it because they want to please their friend george soros. you're starting to cheat, aren't you? they say that abstaining is like not voting. well, at least let's not make fools of ourselves, my fellow congressmen. we all know that abstaining means one thing and choosing not to vote means another. let me take two of my hungarian colleagues as an example. zoltán balczó has correctly said that there are elements of the report with which he agrees and there are with which he does not, and that is why he has made a rational, considered decision which was expressed in an abstention vote. our representative tomás meszerics green received an instruction from his home party to vote, which he did not agree with, so he announced in the press that he would not vote. that's another story. please stop cheating. well, that's practically a crime, it's disgusting, it's repulsive. you must admit you've lost. god protect and guide hungary.
mr. president, i have to go. i voted in favour of the adoption of the sargentini report because i believe it gives an accurate and balanced picture of the breakdown of european norms and the rule of law as a result of the actions of the orbán government. the conditions and violations in the report are regularly mentioned by the hungarian opposition, myself and my own party, the hungarian socialist party, but the ruling party, abusing its parliamentary majority, relying on a distorted electoral system and a monopoly of the press and media, is increasingly restricting freedoms and social rights, exposing european resources in its corruption network, and inciting against minorities, foreigners and the european union. i therefore supported the report and the subsequent possible initiation of the article 7 procedure, specifically as a demonstration of european solidarity and as an aid to the hungarian citizens in the exercise of their democratic rights. i'll make sure the hungarian voters feel the same way. in defense of my country, i thank the 448 brave members of congress for their vote in favor.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i supported this thorough report, agreeing to express a restrained and constructive criticism of the eu's largest and closest global strategic partner in a hopefully short, transitional historical period when the trump presidency is threatening the mutual trust that underpins transatlantic cooperation. i believe it is important that europe, faced with the effects of the unpredictability of us foreign and economic policy, should simultaneously seek new ways to ensure the security and international competitiveness of the eu and its member states, while seeking to preserve the decades-old values of the transatlantic alliance, which are the basis for peace and prosperity on our continent. this report can be a good starting point for the european parliament and the union as a whole to be ready with concrete, forward-looking proposals for the time when we will again face a predictable and responsible governmental partner on the side of the usa. this, of course, also requires strengthening the unity of the union in shaping the eu-us relationship and keeping in check the unwanted european admirers and servants of the trump political spree, such as viktor orbán.
mr. president, i have to go. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a comprehensive and generally realistic picture of the state of eu-china relations, and although in some places a bit cautious to me, it also contains the most important criticisms of the chinese leadership from the point of view of european democracies. i do not deny that the people's republic of china is one of the most important strategic partners of the european union, a key player in the world economy, our second largest trading partner, and that there is no alternative to the importance of dialogue and the pursuit of cooperation. at the same time, i believe it is important that the european union, in the spirit of this report, should take a more decisive and critical stance - if necessary in the form of a protest - against the chinese government's practices against its own people, or, for that matter, against human rights violations in the tibetan issue.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the risk of poverty in old age is a serious social problem in many member states of the european union. we know that there is a growing number of citizens who are forced to live their old age on the periphery of society. it is unacceptable that growing social inequalities should lead to the elderly being placed in intolerable conditions, and i believe it is in the common european interest to find solutions that reduce and mitigate this danger. one such possible solution is the european regulation of the operation of private pension funds complementing public pensions. however, this does not mean that the solution is available to everyone, which is why we must also think of citizens who for some reason are not entitled to a state pension or receive only a small pension. a comprehensive european model of social care should be created for them. i think that if the european parliament is serious about the idea of a social europe, it should first of all think about these people.
in writing. the regulation, maintenance and operation of social protection schemes such as pension schemes are the responsibility of the member states, in accordance with the rules in force. the pension systems of the member states are diverse and varied, and their development dates back to a long historical precedent. therefore, changes in member states' pension systems have inherent limitations and risks. previous eu debates on pensions (green paper, white paper on pensions) have shown that, due to historical circumstances, institutional set-up, other characteristics (different levels of earnings, traditions, structure of financial infrastructure), the systems differ considerably from each other and change can only be slow, with the right conditions, in close interaction with various factors. it is not possible to develop optimal solutions for pension systems that are equally beneficial for all countries. there's no award-winning model that can be copied. the ep debates following the white paper on pensions have also convinced me of this. at the same time, a number of issues relating to the future of pensions, such as demographic trends and the challenges of ageing, raise issues for which commonly agreed responses and approaches could be useful. this is true even though demographic issues, such as ageing, are present at different stages in different member states. the discourse on finding common solutions, learning from good practices, can be useful for all participants. these initiatives are worth supporting, but they can only work properly if they are suitably embedded in local conditions and circumstances.
in writing. regional development projects are being implemented at full speed, with member states, including hungary, sending more and more invoices to brussels for investments already made. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the eu budget allocated to regional development by 10% to a total of eur 4.3 billion. a key element of the entire seven-year eu financial framework is to avoid the payment crisis that occurred at the end of previous programmes, when there were not enough funds left in the budget at the end of the cycle. this will also allow us to provide funding for the next eu development programmes starting after 2020. the council would block the resources related to the management of illegal migration (eur 460 million in commitments and eur 94.5 million in payments) because the member states could not agree on related issues. this council decision fully reflects hungarian interests, and we in the european parliament will do everything we can to defend this position. they should not spend eu funds on promoting illegal immigration.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow officers. i am very proud to have been and to be the rapporteur for this report in the committee on transport and tourism and to be able to report on the work we have done in plenary and before the vote tomorrow. 'europe on the move, the future of mobility in the eu' is the title of the report. have you ever thought about what european transport will look like in ten years? when children who are still going to school with their parents will be twenty or twenty-two years old and traveling on their own? how do they get from one village to another, from one village to another, from one city to another, from one city to another, from one big city to another, or from budapest to strasbourg? a lot of things are going to change around us, but if we are not prepared for this, we, the institutions of the european union, are going to be unable to keep up with the technology, with the revolution that is taking place in our everyday lives. so it's crucial that we talk about this more and more. the mobility sector, transport, also plays a key role in the eu economy, not only for our society but also for the economy, very, very important, accounting for about 4% of the eu gdp and more than 5% of employment in the eu. with the development of automated vehicles, digitalisation and the need to create cleaner transport, the sector is undergoing profound changes that will affect our society in every way. it is estimated that passenger transport will grow by around 42% between 2010 and 2050, while freight transport is expected to grow by 60% over the same period. in the report, i sought to answer the question of how the transport sector is changing, how our attitude towards mobility is changing and what mobility means in the 21st century. there are parallel processes. sustainability, environmental protection, safe transport and the transformation of the energy sector have been put at the forefront, and this requires continuous infrastructure development. the labour market is also changing and transforming structurally and other competences will be required. and this process takes place in five to ten years. our primary task is to develop a comprehensive mobility strategy that includes the effects of digitalisation, environmental issues and, of course, responds to the needs of the population. mobility becomes a complex service, digital connectivity creates new partnerships, new business forms. think about sharing models. approximately eur 740 billion is needed to build the entire trans-european transport network by 2030. to do this, we need not only eu funds but also market players and, of course, member states. digitalisation is one of the most important factors, it affects all areas of the transport sector, it will affect users of mobility services, it will affect providers, and it will also affect european industry and workers. it is our legislative responsibility to ensure that profound changes do not create tensions in society and at the same time preserve the competitiveness of the european union. the transformation will be rapid and significant. we must also focus on research and development, and it is essential that the european union maintains its technological leadership in an otherwise highly competitive world market. the sharing economy is transforming the transportation industry worldwide. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. this also highlights the importance of the report. i don't know how many minutes i have, mr. president, i was told i had six minutes, but if i have less than that, i can finish quickly, because the people in this room... (the member thanked the president in english for his reply.) i thank the colleagues from the various political groups who have helped me with this work. we've been discussing this within the tran committee, so i don't need to go into details right now. i believe that the proposal will receive a great deal of support in tomorrow's vote, and i would like to thank my own office in particular and my expert colleague, mr benedek attila, who has worked very hard to make this a joint, major european parliament project, together with the commission and the member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i thank you for the debate and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner and the colleagues in the commission who wrote the original communication, the original proposal, for their work. they did a good job not only when everything was ready for the commission's communication, but also afterwards, because they were in very active contact with my colleagues and i think there was an exemplary cooperation between the commission and parliament's staff. and let me also thank my colleagues in the various groups who have been very helpful. i'm going to highlight three things right now, at the end of this debate. one, and perhaps the most important, because it can affect any of us, is that there are 25,000 or more deaths on europe's roads every year. our primary task and goal is to minimize this. that's part of our joint mission. secondly, as we have entered the digital age, the world of digital progress, it follows that we must ensure that every european citizen has the same access to transport and the same transport opportunities, whether they are born in the east, west, north or south of europe, and whether they live in a big city or a small town. this is very important. thirdly, that the workers in the transport sector - including our transport industry, that is, the workers in our factories - also need to be given very serious attention by us at european and national level, because we are seeing very rapid technological developments in china and elsewhere. we're definitely gonna have to take on them. as a last sentence, i should like to note that as a hungarian, i considered this proposal particularly important, since in hungary this industry provides employment for almost 170 000 people and 10% of gdp, a quarter of exports. so we have work to do. thank you for the opportunity and thank you for working with me.
thank you very much for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! my dear officer. the european union cannot allow anyone to receive a product with a lower quality than that of a fellow citizen buying in another member state under the same brand name! this report finally provides clear political and legal guidance in the fight against dual quality. i am particularly pleased that my proposals, such as the f-number or the creation of a new eu monitoring and control unit within the commission's central food safety laboratory, or another proposal of mine, such as the amendment of the directive on unfair trading practices, or the prohibition of the sale of products of different quality within the same brand on a third of the time, have been included in the resolution. i would like to thank mr sehnalová, mr nekov and the other rapporteurs for their work. excellent report has been made. thank you for listening.
in writing. when the first news about the dual quality of food appeared a few years ago, that is, that eastern european markets were offering consumers products of lower quality than those offered to western european citizens, eu officials and leading food producers simply ignored it and made a joke of it. today, thanks to the rapporteur, we have a report which states that food manufacturers are placing products on the eu single market with the same ingredients or in packaging that is indistinguishable from the consumer, with different quality or weight. the brand name, the packaging design, the image shown in the advertisements are all the same at first glance, yet the recipe, the ingredients or the ratio of the ingredients are different. this is nothing more than deliberate deception of consumers in the hope of greater profits. unfortunately, this is usually at the expense of eastern european consumers. in many cases, manufacturers have explained the difference in ingredients by the different local tastes. however, research has shown that not only food but also other consumer goods, such as detergents and cleaning products, are of poorer quality. it's hard to explain why eastern europeans want the lowest quality detergents! we have seen with the clock that the commission can act very quickly if it wants to. here's another hot topic that's been waiting to be solved for years! we await the commission's legislative action.
madam president! my fellow members of the house of representatives! i was very pleased to support the vote on the european parliament resolution on the different quality of products traded within the single market, as this was the subject of the majority of my proposals. however, one of my proposals was not supported by the european parliament, although it highlights a real challenge. not only products with the same brand but also products with a deceptively similar appearance can mislead consumers, since, for example, very similar colors, images and names can easily lead consumers to believe that they are buying products from another brand when they are not. in the future, therefore, the quality of products with a deceptively similar appearance should be compared regularly, in addition to products with the same brand. thank you so much for listening.
thank you, mr president. two weeks from now, on 16 october, it will be one year since the maltese journalist, mrs galizia, was tragically murdered in malta. parliament - very rightly - reacted immediately to this terrible act, renaming the press room, for example, but parliament also decided to create an award in memory of daphne caruana galizia, to reward journalistic work. i understand that the bureau of the parliament will be discussing the agenda item for the caruana galizia prize shortly, perhaps even tonight. i would like to see parliament standing before the electorate, the public, two weeks from now, on the one-year anniversary, with the decision to establish this prize in its hands, so that we can launch this prize and commemorate the one-year anniversary of the death of daphne caruana galizia in a dignified way. thank you very much.
in writing. europe is significantly behind the united states and china in modern digital technologies. while it is becoming clearer what will be the technological trends that will shape our future, it is unclear how europe will be able to compete with global competitors. we are already significantly behind in the areas of artificial intelligence and big data, and unfortunately we do not have a particular competitive advantage to hold us back. in china, the sheer volume of data and the efficiency of centralized control, and in the united states, its innovative industry gives us a competitive edge that we can't match. europe is very special and has resources that are unique in the world. the integrity of the internal market, its massive purchasing power and a flexible and forward-looking regulatory environment provide a foundation that competitors do not have. these are the conditions that are most needed for blockchain-based technologies, and i believe that if we properly design the framework for innovation and applicability, europe can be at the forefront of development. i believe that this is a great opportunity for the union to show once again that it is capable of meeting the challenges of the age and to take a leading role in the world in another area, following the successes of the recently implemented data protection directive.
madam president, please. i'm sorry i had to leave the debate for another debate. i would just like to add to this debate that i was rapporteur on the roma strategy before and for the last two years the commissioner has had such good reports from here in parliament. there used to be the micro-regional report, but if we look at the discrimination part only, a socialist colleague of mine in the parliament made a report that showed that people in the poorest or most marginalized communities are the most discriminated against. it is precisely because of the decline or disappearance of services in the post-communist era, for example in eastern europe, that my colleague spoke about. and that perhaps, as mr nistelrooy has said, next year, a pact of bucharest, in fact, as a pan-european strategy against poverty, these five areas, which you have examined in recent years and parliament has given reports and proposals on, in a pan-european strategy against poverty, the most backward regions - perhaps look at the crisis map we drew up in 2011.
in writing. we are well aware that within the european union, there are very wide disparities in development between certain regions, especially in the west-east and north-south relations. this is particularly true for rural, rural and mountainous regions. these areas still have very high unemployment rates and are increasingly disconnected from the more developed, urban parts of the union in terms of gdp per capita. a quarter of rural and mountain households do not have broadband internet access. i think that's unacceptable in the 21st century. the demographic challenges in rural and mountain areas are also of particular concern. the average age of the population, the proportion of people over 65 years of age and the increasing emigration of young people are leading to depopulation in these areas. if you add that 80% of the eu's territory is non-urban, you see how this is a major challenge, not a marginal issue. the european commission should come up with a specific strategy to help non-urban regions catch up. programmes should be offered which take account of the specificities of these areas and the needs of the people who live there. there is no time to delay, and action must be taken as soon as possible, which is why this motion for a resolution is important.
madam president! angry public opinion is stirred in romania by the democratic referendum on a constitutional amendment, scheduled for december 6 or 7, which establishes the family as the union of a man and a woman of their free will. against the attacks of the globalists, the balliberals, on human and minority rights, the initiators stand for normality. the initiative, which is unanimously supported by the churches, is not directed against anyone or anything but is aimed at protecting the traditional christian model of marriage and family. in a europe shaken in its national and religious identity, we must also confront the manifold crisis of marriage and the family, and we must also defend our natural biological identity against the gendered approach of the istanbul convention!
madam president, please. thank you for your time. the eu summit's top agenda is migration. i quote from the conclusions of 28 june: to ensure more effective protection of the eu's external borders, ... the resettlement of migrants within the union will be on a voluntary basis. the sargentini report, on the other hand, criticises hungary's border protection measures and holds hungary accountable for failing to implement the mandatory quota of migrants. the june 5 decisions also agreed on the need to increase the effectiveness of returns and to tackle the root of the problem in cooperation with african states. now it's time for the execution. and a thought about brexit: the worst possible outcome for both sides would be a disorderly exit without an agreement, which can be avoided by mutual compromise. and let's consider that the british prime minister is bound by the will of the people, because there was a referendum on this issue.
madam president, please. the eit's recurring central theme is to curb migratory pressures. this requires the protection of the union's external borders, both on land and at sea. it is clear that this is a matter of political will, the means are there. frontex may have an important role to play in this, but under no circumstances can it take the protection of our own borders out of our hands. we need to dismantle the business model of human traffickers and work with countries that have the capacity to dismantle migration routes. there is no consensus among member states on the basic solutions and measures, and i therefore find unacceptable the open pro-immigration positions of commissioner avramopoulos, as expressed at a un general assembly event, such as the legalisation of illegal immigration or the support for the employment of migrants in europe, which go far beyond his competence and mandate. neither hungary nor the visegrad countries want to become an immigrant country. we don't want to legalize illegal immigration, we don't want to manage it, we want to stop it. we want to preserve the security of our citizens and our children, and the europe as we know it. (the speaker rejects the question by liisa jaakonsaari and sophia in 't veld)
madam president! while we're in plenary, somewhere out there, people from the mediterranean are rowing in a junk boat to europe. people who have no idea that in europe today, governments are competing to see who can most effectively close their borders to refugees. as we sit in plenary here on lesbos, on the greek island of moria, nearly 8,000 people are waiting in terrible conditions to have their case, their lives, decided. but nothing happens, and nothing happens because the refugee issue has become a political manipulation in europe today. commissioner avramopoulos gave a great speech in new york and he made clear the principles of european refugee policy. but all this is of little use if the council, the prime ministers are not concerned with solving the problem, but are concerned about their own political future. we must finally show political and moral courage, not make concessions to the far right, because we will lose the europe we have all built together.
in writing. the european council is faced once again for the eleventh time with the challenge of taking meaningful decisions that guarantee the commitment of all member states to a lasting and humane transformation of the union's migration policy. i believe that this time there is no longer any room for further delay, for blocking community decision-making without seriously undermining the eu's political credibility, which would be accompanied by an increase in the influence of anti-european, populist, nationalist forces in the ep election campaign and in shaping european political processes in general. the basic conditions for the decision are now in place: the migratory pressure has fallen to a historic low, below pre-2015 levels, largely as a result of the eu's current measures, and the european commission finally has concrete proposals for effective, shared protection of the eu's borders, strengthening frontex, and managing crisis situations in the mediterranean. the ep has offered strong political support to the etuc to bring in legislation to establish a shared responsibility based on european solidarity, but unity among member states remains lacking. europe's responsible leaders can no longer tolerate orbán and some of his other populist followers blocking decision-making on the reform of the common migration policy for their own power. the historic task of the eiu today is to thwart the 'worse the better' tactics of xenophobic nationalists, because the eu is facing far-reaching economic, social, sustainability and security challenges that are more serious than migration, and these are what the european parliament election campaign should be about.
members of the house! i represent a country that has always supported the predictable development of emission requirements, but also sees economic factors such as car manufacturers as strategic partners. that's what you're supposed to be up to. as a member of the environment committee, i have no doubt that zero and low-emission vehicles are the future, but it is also important to pay attention to international and global developments and not just to our own eu climate goals. the implementation of the paris agreement is a priority, but the union, which is responsible for around 10% of global emissions, is not alone and cannot do it alone. over-ambitiousness on the part of the eu alone will not in itself lead to 1.5°c. in the us, transport emissions are twice those in the eu, while in some countries around the world, the figure is rising by hundreds of percent. in order to preserve the union's competitiveness, we need to set targets that are realistically achievable for car manufacturers, but reduce pollution within reasonable limits. the union automotive industry is currently facing a number of challenges, such as transatlantic trade barriers, digitalisation and decarbonisation. it's not possible. anyone who knows, anyone who has been around knows that it's impossible for manufacturers to adapt technologically to a 40% emissions reduction target. the reduction target should be set in a way that encourages car manufacturers and does not place additional burdens on them.
in writing. it is a well-known fact that greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector in the union continue to show an increasing trend. at the same time, reducing emissions and promoting the deployment of clean vehicles at union level is essential for the european union to meet its commitments under the paris agreement on climate change. at the same time, i believe that the decarbonisation of the economy must be achieved in a way that ensures the continued competitiveness of the european automotive industry. moreover, a shift away from dependence on oil imports may not only lead to a switch to electricity but also to an increase in domestic employment. the proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles sets emissions targets that are stricter than the current ones, with a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from new cars by 2030 and a 20% increase in the market share of zero- and low-emission vehicles for new and small cars by 2025 and 35% by 2030 for car manufacturers. in light of what has been said, i fully support this ambitious proposal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i'd like to thank the shadow reporters for their more than usual constructive cooperation in handling such cases. it is a pleasure to be here today to discuss a report which, as a result of a professional work of cross-party interest, was adopted by almost complete consensus in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i hope that tomorrow's vote will also bring us to a similar consensus on the fight against vat fraud and the final stage in the development of a vat system that has been dragging on for decades. the union's tariff system is an important tool of the single internal market and has contributed significantly to the promotion of trade within the european union. however, as the current system of taxation of trade between member states was no longer able to keep pace with the globalisation and digitalisation of the economy, the european commission proposed to amend the directive. there is a broad consensus within the european parliament that the fragmentation of the current vat system is a serious obstacle to the proper functioning of the single internal market. however, it is a great step forward that the new system will remove the privileges of individual member states based on previous privileges and allow everyone to decide on their own vat key system on the basis of the same rules. the proposal supported by the report does not therefore limit the current flexibility of member states in setting the vat rate, but on the contrary introduces harmonised and less restrictive rules, for example by introducing a so-called negative list instead of supplementing the already long list of goods and services to which a reduced rate can be applied. so let's just say we can't afford to be under a discounted key. the new system thus guarantees member states greater freedom to decide which products they wish to tax in a preferential way. at the same time, however, in order to secure budgetary resources and avoid harmful tax competition, a weighted average of 12% will be achieved in all member states, taking into account all the key vat rates. the political will is also expressed to have not only a lower but also an upper limit of 15% and 25% respectively for the rate of the general rate of vat. in addition to the general key, each member state will have the option of using two preferential keys and one zero to 5% key, thus eliminating the further discrimination between member states already mentioned. i know that some of my colleagues would have been even more sympathetic if we had voted for a less key option, and perhaps this could be a next step in the future, but i would like to reassure colleagues that the report specifically calls for the creation of an eu-wide information portal which should provide accurate information on the tax systems of all member states, thereby helping smes in particular. as a speaker, it was also of the utmost importance to me that the reduced rate be applied to the benefit of final consumers and to support small and medium-sized enterprises. it was particularly important for the socialist and democratic group that the member states should take account of social and environmental considerations when applying the preferential tax rates and that we should not allow the favourable treatment of harmful or luxury products. i must also stress here that one of the key elements of the proposal for a definitive vat system is that the vat system for taxing trade between member states will be based on the taxation of the member state of destination. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to the debate with my distinguished colleagues.
rapporteur. – mr president, i do appreciate the very cooperative manner in which we have been able to discuss this whole issue. thank you for that. i would just like to come back to one single item in this debate, namely the praise, the acknowledgment and the sense of change towards the principle of ‘place of destination’. this means that, from whenever this new system is introduced, there will be no possibility to issue invoices with so—called zero—vat rates unless it prevails in the country of destination. but the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and we are longing to see whether or not it will function in practice. we believe that it will. we also believe that, ultimately, small and medium—sized enterprises and the final consumers will be the prime beneficiaries of this whole issue. i would like especially to thank the commission because i think that it was a good proposal and so parliament had a fairly easy job. finally, i would say that now governments are going to be responsible for their own respective voters. they can’t say ‘it’s brussels’.
in writing. we welcome the fact that, breaking with the double standard, the european parliament is applying the rule of law mechanism not only to hungary and poland, which are governed by right-wing governments, but also to romania, which is governed by a left-liberal government. in my speech today, i will focus on two hungarian minority cases which are clearly a serious affront to the rule of law in romania and which even refer to the anti-minority practices of the communist dictatorship of the ceauşescu era. as in the days of communism, political prisoners are once again in prison in romania. it's well known that the justice system has shared dozens of illegal secret agreements with the intelligence community. this happened between the romanian intelligence service (sri) and the organized crime and terrorism prosecutor's office (diicot), as a result of which, on the basis of trumped-up charges, without evidence, the court, which was under the influence of the secret service, sentenced hungarian public leaders istván beke and szűcs zoltán to five years in prison for terrorism. a case in point is the case of the university of medicine and pharmacy in marosvásárhely (mogye). the prestigious hungarian school was romanized during the dictatorship of ceauşescu. later, the romanian education law prescribed the institutional introduction of full hungarian language training, but the chauvinist university leadership has not implemented it to date. now, the university is in the process of being dissolved. we strongly demand that these discriminatory anti-hungarian violations be corrected immediately!
mr president vat is a key source of revenue for the member states, and the discrepancy between the vat charged and the vat paid is a major problem, with a growing gap. this requires the introduction of a single set of rules to help mitigate the risk of cross-border vat fraud and to create a single market. a major change is that sales of products from one member state to another are taxed as if the product were purchased in the same member state as the product originated. this requires the operation of a harmonised cross-border it system. together with the amendments, the directive can help to harmonise the tax system, while maintaining the important role of national tax authorities. in view of all this, i voted yes.
mr president the basic objective of the proposal is a common european clinical assessment of health technology. health is the most important value for european citizens, as the eurobarometer survey has repeatedly shown. healthcare spending in the eu, by the way, accounts for 10% of total gdp. the proposed measures include the evaluation of the therapeutic value of health technology and the harmonisation of clinical trial aspects of medicines. this increases reliability, encourages quality innovation and allows for differentiation of technologies. it thus increases the competitiveness of the european pharmaceutical industry by eliminating unnecessary overlaps. in view of all this, i supported the adoption of the report.
mr. president, i have to go. the proposal proposes to extend the international accounting standard (ias) to insurance contracts. this accounting standard is currently used in the eu for companies whose securities are listed on a regulated market in the eu. the report highlights that there are significant differences in insurance accounting, including in the recognition of revenues and profits. the proposal also contains a number of points which harmonise the accounting rules for insurance contracts between different groups of countries. the objective is to achieve a realistic description and better comparability of financial statements within the insurance sector. i supported the adoption of the report on that basis.
madam president, please. with rapid technological change and automation, we are seeing major challenges in employment. according to various estimates, globally between 75 and 375 million people will have to change their occupation by 2030 due to automation. in my country, hungary, alone, about 500,000 jobs could be threatened by automation, especially among low-skilled people. unconditional basic income is a dead end. despite the noble intentions, pilot projects for implementation have failed because they are costly, because they encourage inaction, and because they are unfair. i believe that a conditional support system, with incentives for learning and working, is the right answer to these challenges. responsible economic policy can only choose forms of aid that are conditional and take account of the specificities of the country concerned. that is why i personally do not support the creation of mandatory eu rules on the concept of an adequate minimum income, despite the fact that hungary already has a minimum wage. a uniform and binding eu rule makes member states' employment policies inflexible and in the long run has the opposite effect, since it is no longer possible to take account of specific national circumstances and situations.
mr president the united nations high commissioner for refugees just released a report a few weeks ago, showing that more than 1,500 people have died or gone missing in the mediterranean this year. the numbers are dramatic, with just one death for every 42 refugees in 2017 and one for every 18 in 2018. traumatized, sometimes horribly tortured in libya, refugees arrive on the shores of europe to face governments closing borders and ports. no matter what the consequences are. i don't think we can just sit back and watch these things happen. the common european asylum policy must be about helping refugees, providing humanitarian aid, medical care, psychological care. and that requires money and expertise, and that's what the european asylum agency could do. it could do so if governments were willing to finally deal with the report that we concluded with the maltese presidency in the summer of 2017, but nothing has happened since. i think that without changing this situation, it's going to get worse every day, and it's going to hurt the local communities, the local mayors, the regional communities. i think we need to spend a lot more money than we have been spending on refugee care, on integration, on easo and on social integration.
in writing. the debate today between the left and the liberals is just the latest manifestation of their anti-migrant sentiment, which is an attempt to put pressure on the member states opposed to the mandatory quota. the leftists present it as if the local authorities of the member states agree and support the mandatory resettlement of migrants in their municipalities, and as if the only obstacle to this is the governments of the member states, and therefore they demand access to these authorities to the appropriate financial means to enable them to implement the resettlement. i would like to draw the attention of the left-wing and liberal deputies to the fact that in hungary alone, the municipalities of more than 2000 hungarian settlements have taken a decision against forced resettlement. i would also remind my colleagues that the solution is not to increase funding for immigrant resettlement by local authorities, as illegal migration should not be 'managed' but stopped. no mandatory resettlement quota of any kind would be able to alleviate or solve the migration crisis, but on the contrary, more and more migrants would be on their way to europe in the hope of redistribution. similarly, ngo boats rescuing migrants in the mediterranean sea and then transporting them to europe are a pull factor that only reinforces the business model of human traffickers and must be stopped. the eu's resources should be used to improve border control and to tackle the root causes of the migration crisis, so that migrants do not unnecessarily risk their lives and the lives of their children.
author. – mr president, as an introduction, let me greet amongst us on the balcony mr dolkun isa, the president of the world uyghur congress and a tireless fighter for his people. welcome amongst us. (applause) elnök úr! szeptember tizenkettedikén, az eu és kína közötti kapcsolatok helyzetéről szóló ep jelentést az európai parlament nagy többséggel fogadta el. a dokumentum azt hangsúlyozza, hogy a két fél közötti átfogó stratégiai partnerség olyan elveken alapszik, mint a jogállamiság, az emberi jogok és a demokrácia, célja pedig az, hogy a kölcsönös bizalmat és a megértést erősítse a két fél között. ennek értelmében emelem fel a szavam a több mint egymillió ujgur és kazah, tömeges és önkényes fogva tartása ellen a hszincsiang ujgur autonóm területen létesített átnevelő táborokban. a kínai kommunista állam cinikus módon továbbra is tagadja ezeknek a modern koncentrációs táboroknak a létezését. az önálló népnek is beillő, 10 milliósra tehető ujgur közösség minden egyes tagját szigorú megfigyelés alatt tartják, lábbal tiporva a kínai alkotmányban is rögzített alapvető emberi és közösségi, etnikai és vallási jogaikat. felszólítom a kínai hatóságokat, hogy haladéktalanul és feltétel nélkül vessenek véget az ujgurok identitásának megsemmisítésére irányuló politikának. valódi stratégiai partnerségről és kölcsönös bizalomról csupán akkor beszélhetünk, hogyha kína valamennyi állampolgárának, köztük kisebbségeinek is, az alapvető jogait biztosítja, és emberi méltóságát tiszteletben tartja. lépjünk fel egységesen kínával szemben! a stratégiai partnerséghez fűződő gazdasági érdekeink nem képezhetik akadályát az őszinte párbeszédnek, legitim emberi jogi követelményeink kimondásának.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european union is committed to delivering on the commitments it made in the paris agreement and to remaining at the forefront of the fight against global warming. that's very good. however, the targets adopted by parliament, which the rapporteur of the last report on this subject described as being quite ambitious, do not take account of two important aspects. first, these excessive commitments have adverse economic and social consequences which member states must bear. the second is that the eu is responsible for 10 percent of all carbon emissions. a global problem cannot be solved locally, only by global cooperation. the most important area is climate diplomacy. we need to get the united states back in the paris agreement. it's a small step forward that now president trump feels that climate change is real, and it's not just a chinese hoax.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i want to express my concern about the recent atrocities against the transcarpathian hungarian community. the minority rights violations, the education and then the language law create uncertainty, which is further aggravated by the erosion of the sense of security. some are consciously working to disrupt the peace between the nationalities in transcarpathia. the media has long portrayed the hungarians negatively, falsely accusing them of separatism. an extremist website started to intimidate by listing transcarpathiaans as enemies of the people, publishing personal information. this is not only a violation of the current legislation of ukraine, but also of international norms, yet they did not block this page. there's a petition on the supreme council's website that transcarpathia is collecting signatures for the deportation of hungarians. this is incitement against the community, yet it's registered. at the weekend, unknown persons put up giant posters with the words "stop the separatists", abusing the photographs and names of transcarpathian hungarian leaders. the inaction of the ukrainian authorities and the indifference of european politics are giving way to these ethnically motivated provocations, destabilization attempts, and escalation of tension for political gain... (the president shall take the floor)
in writing. the socialist group in the european parliament was the first to recognise that the most urgent and pressing task for the ep and the union as a whole is to take the lead in defending our citizens against insidious practices that threaten our entire democratic political order, such as those exposed by the cambridge analytica leak the misuse of the personal data of tens of millions of facebook users however, with our decision today, we are only recognising the 'importance' of this and taking the first defensive step, knowing that the cambridge analytica case is just the tip of the iceberg, as many other businesses around the world are involved in the manipulation and sale of information through personal data algorithms. i consider the dissemination of 'fake news', political incitement campaigns and manipulation aimed at influencing the election results, organised by certain political forces and even states, to be particularly dangerous for the democratic functioning of the eu and its member states. in view of the important elections that are about to take place in several european countries, and in particular the european parliament elections in may, i believe it is important that our present resolution has a concrete aftermath and that the governments of the member states also take decisive action, by means of targeted legislation, to prevent this modern attack. i would especially expect this from the political leadership of a member state like my own, where unfortunately the orbán government uses such tools of fake news and fear to further its political goals.
mr president, please accept my sincere appreciation for your stand at the eu summit in brussels last week against illegal migration and trafficking in human beings, and your strong stand at home against corruption and in defence of the rule of law in romania. for the sake of europe's future, i ask you to join hungary and the visegrád four in defending european values, our european christian identity and the sovereignty of our nations. as a transylvanian hungarian, i ask you, as my german-saxon compatriot, to protect the rule of law in the centenary period of our country not only against corruption, but also against the hungarian opposition with a nationalist-communist bias, lest we also suffer the fate of the depleted transylvanian saxons, who were expelled from their homeland by the ceausescu dictatorship.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think we can all agree here that democracy is a good thing. there will be a new mandate from next year, both for the european parliament and our connected institution – the commission – which is very dependent on us next year. but this debate this year should take place at the same time for that very reason: about the future but also about how we complete our five years’ work together. from that point of view these two elements are mixed here. the first thing i would like to say is that our group is very keen to work on, and insists on the need to deliver on, the legislative proposals which are still pending. parliament should complete its work and the commission should table everything which is still missing from the table. from what we have seen so far, this is possible. for the epp group, the most important element – and the number-one question we would like to see completed – is, obviously, the security and migration issue, where border protection – not just border management, but real protection of the european union – should be achieved, as well as cooperation with africa, keeping a vigilant eye within the continent on the western balkans. the vice-president mentioned cybersecurity, especially concerning the possibilities of disinformation in the european parliament election campaign. we also insist on implementation, not just on completing pending legislation, for instance in the area of pnr. this is a very important thing. i would also like to use this opportunity to welcome – as we have discussed in this parliament several times, parallel work is not something which we need to do concerning the commission work programme – the withdrawal of the mandate from the migration compact, which is a decision that i think the commission was right to take. it should be left to the member states and we should find our own way to find our own possibilities at european level. all these aspects are very important to ensure the stability of the continent. on solidarity, i would also like to draw your attention to the eu civil protection mechanism, which is very important, and also to the fact that the parliament will be ready – and this is a message to the council rather than the commission or ourselves – with the mff proposals by the end of this year. with all due respect, some elements are still missing, but i think we can achieve it. from there on, it will basically be the council’s job. but we are delivering our results here. regarding trade policy and climate change, my colleagues will expand on my speech, but i would like to welcome the commission’s quick response to these issues. i wish for ourselves the successful completion of our work of five years, both for the commission and for parliament.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in 2019, the european commission's priority is the seven-year budget, finding a compromise with the council and parliament. the main challenge is to reduce the gap between the countries of the centre and the periphery and to prevent the union from breaking up. this requires the efficient use of eu resources, above all joint action, and a strong fight against corruption. the priority should be to support smes that create significant added value and thus have the capacity to raise wages, thus curbing the one-way migration of labour within the union, which creates social tensions on both sides. the commission's proposal, which would significantly reduce the cohesion funds, is the opposite. parliament expressed its concern that the commission was weakening the eu's main solidarity policy and in particular opposed to the reduction of the cohesion fund. i'm confident that as co-legislators, we can deliver on our promises.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. the schengen information system, like the schengen area, is a european success story in itself. it is the most tangible achievement of european citizens, the freedom to cross internal borders without compromising their security. in 2015 alone, nearly 2,9 billion security searches of persons and objects were carried out by competent national authorities on the basis of data stored in sis. the new proposal to be voted on tomorrow will further strengthen this security element of the schengen system to respond adequately to the new challenges posed by migration and terrorism. it is welcome that the process of finding missing children, which can often be successful in the first 24 hours, is finally getting more attention, faster and more effective. the procedure against illegal migrants awaiting deportation or subject to an entry ban will be more effective. storing facial images makes it easier to identify criminals and terrorists. the renewed system is in line with the aspirations of the european people's party, reflecting all its convictions that there is no freedom without security. and this new generation of information systems is going to be the one that makes us safer. at the same time, we must not forget that our internal border security can only be sustained as long as we can guarantee the security of our external borders.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the ongoing migration crisis was undoubtedly the central theme of last week's eu summit in brussels. it is gratifying to note that brussels and pro-migrant countries have not been able to impose their will on anti-migration member states. the participants of the meeting necessarily confirmed that their objective remains to stop illegal immigration. the truth is that the battle between pro- and anti-immigration forces and countries continues in the eu. there is a real political war going on between those who want to stop illegal migration and those who want to manage and legalize it. the ideological warfare is being waged by the left-liberals against hungary and poland, by guy verhofstadt against viktor orbán, by emmanuel macron and his allies against the italy of matteo salvini. however, the proposal for mandatory solidarity put forward by the austrian presidency and sebastian kurz is a positive development. the debate will continue at the next summit in december and hopefully the elections in may next year will bring a breakthrough in the eu's migration policy. it is to be hoped that the european people's party, which is renewing itself and gaining strength in the european elections, will play a decisive role in finding a solution, in defending the europe of nations and their sovereignty, values, culture and identity. in any case, hungary stands for its freedom and independence in the spirit of the revolution of 1956 that broke out on october 23.
i voted in favour of this report, which is a huge undertaking. i would like to congratulate mr daniele viotti on his successful conduct of the intergroup negotiations. the commission's annual budget proposal presented in may 2018 was not ambitious. moreover, despite the fact that the council proposed further budget cuts following the commission proposal. however, i am pleased that the committee on budgets of the european parliament has been able to identify the priorities for 2019. i also find it particularly positive that the pilot projects and preparatory actions are now increasingly supporting the concept of smart villages, which i started as a pilot project in 2015 and which is one of the most important rural concepts of the socialists and democrats.
i voted in favour of this report because i think it is unacceptable that we are dumping any kind of waste in the sea, but i think it is unacceptable that 70% of it is disposable plastic. unfortunately, however, in terms of this ratio, we would get a similar result if we were to examine landfills in hungary, for example. i am personally in favor of banning single-use plastics from 2021. for all these products, metal, wood or glass-based devices can provide a perfect alternative. however, in addition to the ban, we also need to address practical problems, such as the mixing of different categories of plastic and alternative recycling currently used in the european union.
the lisbon treaty was born at a time when the member states of the european union were essentially in agreement on all the basic principles. the first vice-president indicated that this had been accepted and ratified by all the governments without exception. but today we live in a different time, today there are member states, member state governments that instead of the common european values, promote illiberalism and populism, and say that european values and traditions are no longer important for us, the west is declining and with similar nonsense they are encouraging, spreading the growing anti-europe, anti-european union. i think it is absurd that in the council, the prime ministers of the member states are able to prevent decisions and legislative proposals that are important for the whole of europe, for their own selfish interests. i think that if we are serious about rethinking the lisbon treaty, then this is where we need to start. we must make it clear that europe has no chance unless we seek greater unity, in as many areas as possible, and reject populism and illiberalism.
let me summarize my remarks in three points. first of all, let me say that - i agree with several of my colleagues - it is absolutely clear and unequivocal that the european court of auditors is doing an excellent job. the presentation of the final accounts of the union budget for 2017 also supports this conclusion. allow me, mr president, to express my appreciation to you and to all the members and staff of the court of auditors. secondly, let me say that although we are politicians and we can make bad news out of good news, and sometimes we try to make good news out of bad news, it is by no means a disadvantage that the deficit in the european union budget, as revealed by the european court of auditors' audit, has decreased compared to previous years. right now, it's 2.4%. further decreases would be warranted, but this is in any case a positive trend. last but not least, if there is one area where wrong, irregular or corrupt payments from the eu budget are unacceptable, it is the area of migration. the report produced by the european court of auditors has revealed serious shortcomings in this area, so i can say that we have a shared responsibility to look specifically at the issue of irregular use of funds in the area of migration in the context of the parliament's examination of the court of auditors' report.
i think that the 'user pays' and 'polluter pays' principles are not in dispute in motorway tolls, but there are two other principles that have been ignored in the proposals by the european commission and the rapporteur. it's the principle of subsidiarity and social equity. the inclusion of passenger cars in the scope of the directive seriously infringes these principles . make no mistake: motorway tolls should compensate for the environmental impact. but how do they do that, what kind of measures, with a road tax or an income tax on fuel, a vehicle tax? this should remain a matter for the member states to decide, as it is at the member state level that the right balance between environmental, economic and social considerations is best achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in fact, high tolling increases traffic on secondary roads, which increases the risk of accidents and damages the environment. furthermore, in eastern european member states, the financial situation of citizens does not allow for the mass purchase of new and more expensive environmentally friendly cars, and regional economic differences must therefore be taken into account, as this is the only way to apply the principle of social fairness.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur for being able to achieve consensus around very difficult issues in this dossier. as a rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism (tran) i can say that in tran we wanted to have an even more simplified directive, but nevertheless we welcome the fact that a couple of key elements have been taken on board from the tran opinion. firstly, to link this dossier clearly to the alternative fuels infrastructure directive and to maintain a proper level of technical neutrality. secondly, i am happy that the ʻwell-to-wheelʼ approach on vehicle emissions was taken on board and that there is a clear deadline for the commission to propose a methodology for this by the end of 2022. finally, the most important thing is to make sure that by changing legislation, the obligations are not creating an additional financial burden for the member states nor leading to a reduction in public transport services or to higher ticket prices that are passed on to passengers. the eu should give assistance in this regard, especially to the cohesion countries.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's resolution on promoting the automatic mutual recognition of diplomas. the right to education is a fundamental human right that must be guaranteed to everyone. transparent recognition of foreign qualifications is both an objective of the bologna process and a fundamental value underpinning an open and inclusive european higher education area. i believe it is important to achieve mutual recognition of higher education diplomas within the european union and to remove the administrative obstacles to such recognition. the resolution calls on the member states to commit themselves to establishing mechanisms for the automatic mutual recognition of higher and upper secondary education and periods of study abroad, in line with the objectives of the european education area. it also calls on the commission to support the achievement of this objective by encouraging mutual learning and the sharing of good practice, for example through the regular publication of 'comparability statements' attesting to upper secondary education and the consistent use of the european credit transfer system classification table. calls on the member states to introduce mechanisms to facilitate automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and periods of study abroad by 2025, in line with the objectives of the european education area and building on the existing framework;
in writing. transport is the only major economic sector in the union where greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions have increased since 1990. this is largely due to the use of conventional fuels. we should be looking more at alternative fuels in addition to conventional fuels. this requires the development of the infrastructure for these fuels and the maintenance of existing stations. the main responsibility for developing the appropriate alternative fuels infrastructure lies with the member states, but unfortunately there are differences between member states in ambition and financial backing. the european commission needs to play a greater role in ensuring that all member states make progress in this area. the member states need to be helped on a case-by-case basis, and i therefore think it is important that those responsible come up with technology-neutral solutions and are flexible in relation to the situation in each country, and open to achieving the objectives wherever possible. i also think it is important to stress that special attention should be paid to the eastern member states, especially those that joined in 2004 and later. the backwardness of these countries in this respect must not be allowed to persist in relation to the more advanced states which joined earlier.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am really happy that, after lengthy discussions, common sense won over short-sighted interests and the co-legislators set a 2030 headline target of 32.5% for the energy efficiency directive to be implemented across sectors. however, we cannot sit back and relax. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report clearly points out that we have to do much more than we are doing already, and we should increase our ambition. let me remind you that the greens/efa group in the european parliament have asked for a binding 40% target, in line with the paris agreement objective and in line with the needs, according to the ipcc report. some colleagues are referring to realism and reality. but let me clarify that there is no stronger reality in the future than climate change. we can do nothing with our economic growth or industrial activity if the climate collapses. there is a huge difference between the 1.5° or the 2° climate change, and that depends on our ambition in the energy efficiency directive and the renewables directive. this depends on this clean energy package. i have to emphasise also that it’s not only about climate change and the environment. a higher ambition is a strong policy signal leading to more business actors to come on board for the energy transition. it means consumers living in decent homes, saving on their energy bills, and hundreds of thousands of jobs created in the green industries – up to 900 000 jobs according to the european commission. finally, let me emphasise also that this is the way to lift out millions of european citizens from energy poverty.
in writing. the clean energy package is designed to modernise the union's electricity system and to respond to the most pressing economic and energy challenges. one of these, if not the most serious, is global warming. the latest ipcc report paints a much grimmer picture of climate than we previously thought, which is why it is particularly important that we address this problem properly. it is essential to reduce member states' carbon emissions sustainably and significantly, and therefore it is important to promote carbon-neutral technologies in energy production. the carbon dioxide emissions per unit of electricity production in hungary are currently among the lowest in the world, but the hungarian government intends to further reduce them in its energy strategy. the two main pillars of future hungarian energy production are solar and nuclear energy, which would account for almost half of the country's energy supply. the common feature of these technologies is that they do not emit any harmful emissions, so they are not harmful to the climate or to air quality. i believe that with forward-looking strategies like these, we can respond appropriately to the challenges of our time.
in writing. other the change in the patterns of frequency and volume of catastrophic floods observed worldwide is a clear consequence of climate change. the increasingly frequent tides that bring huge amounts of water down our rivers are regularly followed by extremely hot and dry periods. adapting to extreme weather events is a fundamental human interest. in view of this, it is particularly important that we manage the water that is life much more consciously. we need to design and implement nature-friendly, ecologically-conscious solutions that divert the huge surplus water that floods create and use it to alleviate water shortages during droughts. sustainable management of flood water should aim to provide the widest range of ecological services. the other fact about floods that i want to bring to your attention is the recent ipcc report that says that it is possible to keep the temperature rise below 1.5 degrees celsius. this is a huge opportunity for humanity to avoid, or at least reduce, the already-estimated losses and costs that we're putting on the climate change account. it is imperative for every government and every person to take the necessary steps within their means to ensure that our children inherit a livable planet. instead of devastating floods and droughts that bring famine, there is moderate prosperity and peace.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr nagy, for producing this report, which is another step towards the creation of a single eu-wide protection for minorities. as rapporteur for the cult opinion on the report, i am very pleased that the report focuses on mother tongue education and culture and the use of mother tongues in all areas of life. mother tongue education is essential for the exercise of linguistic rights and member states should therefore be encouraged to provide adequate opportunities for regional and national minorities to acquire their mother tongue and to learn in their mother tongue at all levels of education in the regions in which they live. the right to education is a fundamental right of every human being, and education in the mother tongue plays a key role in preserving identity and culture. the report also states that the eu should focus more on the protection of the rights of national, regional and linguistic minorities living in its territory, as minority rights are enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights and in a number of international instruments but there is no single legislative mechanism for the protection of minorities. i am therefore pleased that parliament's report includes the call for the european commission to submit a legislative proposal in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and we look forward to that.
it's good to see that there are more representatives who are minorities themselves speaking, and it's good to see so many of us speaking on this issue. we should be a lot more people tonight, i think, if we're representing 40 million people. and thank you for being here.
i'll close the agenda. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 november 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr bogdan brunon wenta on behalf of the committee on development entitled 'digitisation for development: reducing poverty through technology' (2018/2083 (ini)) (a8-0338/2018). this and the previous topic are actually overlapping. the latest reports have already made it clear that poverty and minority status are very often intertwined. this is why it was important for the european union to find the digital tools to fight poverty.
i'll close the agenda. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 november 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the report of mr vincent peillon, on behalf of the committee on development, on union development assistance in the field of education (2018/2081 (ini)) (a8-0327/2018).
i'll close the agenda. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 november 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political questions (rule 163).
that concludes the agenda item.
the treaty on the functioning of the european union sets as a fundamental objective the achievement of harmonious development, the reduction of disparities between regions and the reduction of the backwardness of disadvantaged regions. the commission's proposal for the next seven-year budget does not meet this expectation. the three funds making up the cohesion fund would be reduced by 10% in total, and the cohesion fund itself by 45%. the report by parliament considers this unacceptable and calls for the current level of funding to be restored. that's very encouraging. but it is no longer that the report would further erode the sovereignty of the member states. the proposal on the union's own resources does not take into account the fact that tax policy is a national competence. a qualified majority would be sufficient for the adoption of the budget in the council instead of a unanimous vote. on such a weighty issue, it is appropriate to maintain full consensus.
i would like to sum up my position briefly in three points. first of all, it is totally unacceptable that the next seven-week framework budget should not have at least as many resources for cohesion policy, regional development and the common agricultural policy as in the current seven-year period. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i'm asking for your support. i am silent in saying that the institutions that talk about strengthening european powers, about a federal europe - see commission, see individual member states - are the very ones who least want this common european effort. secondly, it is unacceptable that central european countries which make good use of regional development resources, such as my country, hungary, should lose the next seven-year framework budget. last but not least, a fictional idea based on all sorts of subjective criteria, which is to say the rule of law... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. - mr president! i ask my colleagues to vote in favour of parliament's position on the next seven-year eu framework budget. let us show our voters that the european parliament is united in its support for eu policies that benefit citizens, in particular cohesion policy and agricultural policy. more than 50% of the eu's population lives in rural areas, so it is important to preserve the attractiveness of these areas by providing growth and jobs, the necessary infrastructure, mobility opportunities and basic services. the budget for the main eu policies that support the countryside, such as the agricultural policy, cohesion policy and fisheries policy, cannot therefore be reduced. i am glad that parliament is in favour of maintaining the current budget for these policies, and i am even glad that it is proposing a 10% increase in the budget for fisheries policy, which includes aquaculture. i call on the european commission and the governments of the member states not to leave the european countryside and its citizens behind in the budget negotiations, but to fight for the eu funds to support them and to support parliament's proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank the chancellor for her speech and for the work she has been doing in the last few years. madam chancellor, what i always wanted to highlight when your policies are discussed is that just before the european elections it is extremely important that we send the message out to the european pool – one fifth, every fifth citizen of ours – that this is not a two—speed europe. in eastern europe, poverty has to be stopped to make sure that we will be a strong enough europe to help those who you wish to see on your labour market. but there are so many europeans waiting to work on your labour market, so please assist the member states to use the money which is in their budget for poverty in the next eight months, because about 50% of the poverty money has still not been used. for the next mff, please try to make sure that there is no budget line working on poverty inside europe, and then we can turn to african poverty. we have very good insertion and integration models throughout eastern europe, but also in the balkans and in your countries. i have been visiting a lot of refugee projects with syrians, and i would like to ask you to speed up their employment, because they have been going crazy sitting at home for two years waiting to get jobs. on those who you are going to send back to africa, please make sure that they get the same educational projects that we get in europe. also, because you are a very big border opener and we very often see you at sopron, the european picnic: please make sure that, before you open up the big borders, you open up the small ones. just to next to austria, hungarian workers have been standing at the border waiting to go to work every morning for the last three weeks. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to say to the chancellor that i was really impressed with her recent statement at the kristallnacht commemoration, and i join in with your warning, madam chancellor, that political violence and extremism must be stopped at the roots, at the first sign of anti-democratic action and hate speech, before they get a chance to destroy our democracies or lives. regarding today’s dangers overshadowing the eu’s future however, i must say that you and your wider political family, the ppe, have failed in this by missing the chance to stop fidesz and halt orbán’s anti-european and anti-democratic illiberal political course based on corruption and inhuman government. i am a hungarian socialist; i know our duties, but it is my urgent plea to you, madam chancellor, to use your full political weight in the european council and your important leverage within your political family to help clear this picture by distantiating your party from fidesz and condemning, and hopefully ending, orbán’s illiberal political search in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteur schwab for the work we have done together. the constructive approach i experienced in the procedure guaranteed that the european parliament’s position was representing most of our views and we could stand for it unanimously in the procedure of the trilogue. i am personally very happy that this report, based on my request, approved by one of the previous annual competition reports. as shadow rapporteur and also on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, let me underline some points which were key elements for us to be able to support the procedure. namely, strengthening national competition authorities and granting them more effective investigation, decision-making and sanctioning tools, granting sufficient independence from political interference and also in the allocation of the budget, to find solutions to divergences in leniency programmes in different member states, to keep the maximum amount of fines at least at 10%, and that fines will be calculated on global turnover and not on relevant turnover.
that concludes the agenda item. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 november 2018.
the next item is the commission statement on the regulation of virtual currencies and ico issuance (2018/2923 ((rsp)).
that's the agenda item. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is the statement by the council and the commission on the support by eu member states for the un global compact on migration (2018/2924 ((rsp))
on behalf of the ppe group. if you read the un global compact on migration carefully, it becomes clear that it does not reflect the interests of europe, it is not for europe. the document presents migration as a positive phenomenon, equating illegal economic migration with the issue of genuine refugees and legal migration, and establishing illegal migration as a fundamental right. the adoption of the package would therefore have irreversible consequences, due to the development of legal interpretations and customs, which are contrary to the interests of the people of europe. it is also contrary to the interests of the third world, because it suggests false, unrealistic promises of better prosperity, while many third world countries lose the generation of people who will be able to work and the illusion that this creates will lead to more and more individual tragedies. i am fortunate that austria and bulgaria are following hungary in withdrawing from the process of adopting the package, and that a number of other member states are considering withdrawing from the migration pact, including estonia. i see that more and more people are realizing that this is a document that is harmful to our national interests and a danger to our europe. the way out of the migration crisis is to separate migrants for livelihood from genuine refugees outside the union, to make returns more efficient and to help third countries to address the real causes of mass migration rather than spreading the problem.
in writing. - mr president! the report, which initiated the introduction of humanitarian visas, would allow third-country nationals to obtain visas for entry into europe through an accelerated and simplified procedure at missions outside the european union. amazingly, this entry permit would be issued without thorough and careful checks on the identity of the immigrants and their eligibility for refugee status. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not subject to unfair discrimination. the proposal shows that the european parliament has come up with a new, unreasonable idea and, instead of solving the problem, wants to bring it into the union. the brussels ambition to turn europe into an immigrant zone by accepting as many refugees as possible is totally unacceptable and i therefore believe that the proposal under discussion must be rejected in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. the ep has shown no sign of sanity in proposing an initiative to bring masses of migrants to europe using so-called humanitarian visas. the european parliament's proposal for a humanitarian visa aims to ensure that migrants can enter the european union with a visa obtained at eu consulates and only then be granted asylum. this is problematic in several ways. on the one hand, it would give all illegal migrants visas to enter europe without extensive security checks. it would thus place the migration problem on the european agenda. on the other hand, tens of thousands of people would be flooding into the consulates of eu member states, for which our consulates are in no way prepared. this is another proposal that is out of touch with reality and that, instead of remedying the problem, is importing it into the union. therefore, we cannot accept this proposal.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i consider it one of the most important tasks to define as soon as possible our negotiating position on the next long-term budget of the union, including specific amounts. unfortunately, the eu budget in its current form is not sufficient. new tasks require new sources and solutions, for example by increasing direct eu revenues. i agree with the european parliament's position that we should give priority to the funds that can be spent on young people, economic growth, job creation, research and climate change, migration, defence and security policy. however, i would also like to stress that we must continue to focus more on agriculture and the countryside. smart technologies can lead to investments that can make food production cheaper and our food healthier. rural communities themselves can benefit from these, for example through smart villages, or more specifically through their social, service, energy and education systems.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i voted in favour of the report. i am pleased that my initiative, which was included in the previous annual competition report, has launched our work and has now taken it to a new stage. the s&d group was able to support the proposal, inter alia, because it guarantees that national competition authorities will be able to conduct their proceedings more effectively by providing stronger decision-making and sanctioning tools. our proposal was included in the european parliament's report that the independence of national competition authorities should not be jeopardised by any attempts at governmental influence. the positive vote was also conditional on the harmonisation of the member states' leniency procedures being properly regulated and on the maximum amount of the court being fixed at a minimum of 10% of the total worldwide turnover of the undertaking concerned in the future.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i was in favour of a resolution expressing parliament's dissatisfaction with the commission and, in particular, with the council, which are obstructing the interinstitutional agreement on a comprehensive mechanism to punish member states for their behaviour which infringes fundamental rights, which has been envisaged for two years. since then, the political stakes have only been increased by the rise of extreme populist anti-eu forces in europe, the systematic dismantling of the democratic rule of law and the daily practice of deliberate lawbreaking by some governments. unfortunately, the best, and i am sorry to say the most serious, example of the latter is provided by the orbán government in my own country, which is exploiting the shortcomings of eu law and the inconsistency of european institutions to pursue its policy of destroying democratic institutions, disregarding european values and law, with virtually no consequences. the hungarian example alone proves that the eu currently has no means of enforcing compliance with community rules.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the breakdown of the rule of law is spreading like a contagious disease in the european union. it started in hungary, it continued in poland, but now we have to see signs from italy to romania, through the czech republic to slovakia or bulgaria. by undermining the rule of law, these countries are not fighting the eu, but their own citizens. when they undermine the independence of the judiciary, when they allow corruption to spread in the country, when they violate the freedom of the media, they violate the rights of their own citizens. it is also dangerous for the european union. if european integration cannot enforce the fundamental rights and values on which it is based, if it allows orbán, kaczyński, dragnea to unhinderedly undermine the values of the rule of law, then this community will crumble. we need decisive action, decisive steps to stop the breakdown of the rule of law in the european member states.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the 2019 european elections are not just europe's preparation. outside actors are also trying to hack them, to push europe into a dead end. they don't do this by specifically cheating, but by distorting political discourse, by fabricating fake news, by instilling fear. the main source, of course, is russia and its allies in europe, the extreme populist forces. but there are growing signs that some eu governments, such as hungary or poland, may also be engaging in disinformation. we can't stand by and let the actors who have a stake in our failure hack our public discourse, our elections, unchecked. this requires support for quality independent media. investigative work is needed to uncover the backgrounds of the fake news factories. we need independent media so that we can't spread fake news with state aid, like in hungary. we need a common european public, news channels, to create a european-wide public discourse on our common issues. without quality media, there will be no democratic member states, and without them, not only will there be no democracy, but no common europe.
in writing. a recent study by oxford university shows that false propaganda to influence public opinion and elections is on the rise worldwide. in hungary, researchers have been observing such activity since 2010, when the orbán government took office. it is especially shameful that the false propaganda in hungary is carried out exclusively by the government - and clearly in support of vladimir putin's anti-eu policy. the government's disinformation activities are part of everything the ep has condemned in the sargentini report. orbán's troll army is working to monopolize the print and electronic press, and then the internet, to silence critical voices from the political opposition and civil society. at the same time, the european union is being attacked on the internet with a constant, aggressive, and outright mass of lies. they create fear, they create division in the voting public, and they use that fear to further their nationalist, racist policies. the integrity of the ep elections is therefore threatened from within the union, from the hungarian government. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in addition to the campaign of lies, another manipulation of the hungarian electoral law is being prepared. the amendment proposed would allow hungarian citizens living in another member state to vote in two countries simultaneously, without being able to do so illegally and without being checked. it would have a profound effect on the outcome of the election. it is essential that the union address both issues urgently, well before the elections, in order to guarantee the integrity of the vote.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, in the context of the revision of the regulation on the rights and obligations of rail passengers, the european parliament has taken account of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in order to ensure that persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility have the same mobility opportunities as other citizens in rail transport. in future, special attention should be paid to ensuring that persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility have access to vehicles without discrimination and that they receive information on the train equipment without hindrance. in order to ensure uniform travel conditions, these persons should be provided with assistance free of charge for boarding and disembarking. it is essential that appropriate visual and audible signalling systems are available to passengers with sensory impairments, such as those who are deaf, hard of hearing or deafblind, so that they can be informed of delays in the best possible way. it is also a forward-looking and long-awaited measure that staff should be adequately trained on the needs of and the assistance needed by disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. i hope that the text will not be watered down in the interinstitutional negotiations either, since disabled people and people with reduced mobility have the same rights as other citizens as regards freedom of movement and freedom from discrimination.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the single market is the most significant achievement of european integration, apart from lasting peace on our continent. its importance is now further underlined by the political pressure against internal integration and the new challenges from international competitors. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the committee of the regions. i would like to stress in particular tax policy, where i believe that the steps taken towards the unification of vat systems and the common consolidated tax base can make the full implementation of fiscal union a realistic goal.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the report calls on the serbian government to implement international treaties on the rights of national minorities. it notes that no progress has been made in guaranteeing the rights of national minorities and that the progress made is not satisfactory. there is an action plan, but it should be fully implemented. calls on serbia to ensure the use of minority languages in education, public administration and the media. it is regrettable that the same conclusions were made in the previous report, namely that no progress has been made, while the protection of the rights of national minorities is a precondition for accession to the eu. it is time to call on serbia to fulfil these commitments instead of making them. we do not want the rights of the national minorities in serbia, including the indigenous hungarian population in vojvodina, to be higher than those serbia wants for the serbs in kosovo.
mr president, during the summer we could see some promising signals connected to the belgrade—priština negotiations, but recent economic measures and other acts of provocation by the kosovo government triggered events which are undermining not just bilateral relations but also eu efforts in the region, such as with the common economic area. it is high time for the council to take action. the lack of european leadership in the western balkans is getting more and more obvious and pressing. the commission does play a very important role but political decisions must be made by political bodies such as the council, together with the member states. they must stop hiding behind the commission’s skirt of technocratic and bureaucratic criteria, benchmarks and checklists. hoping that legal harmonisation and reaching european standards will automatically solve the issues on the balkans are illusory and naive. they must take these matters seriously, otherwise we will have, as was always the case, the us and russia rushing in solving european issues.
madam president, please. i would like to point out that hungary is a committed supporter of the european accession of the western balkan countries, including macedonia. we welcome the fact that the so-called name dispute has been resolved and accession negotiations are expected to begin. however, we reject the idea that the socialists and the greens are using the macedonian country report to attack hungary on an ideological basis in connection with the unexpectedly erupted gruevski case. the overthrow and subsequent conviction of former prime minister nikola gruevski was most likely the result of the migration issue and the soros lobby. the granting of refugee status to the populist politician took place within the framework of a legal procedure by the competent hungarian authorities. the report can only be agreed on the need to continue the fight against corruption in macedonia and the need for further efforts to protect the judiciary from political interference. the judiciary cannot be a tool of politics.
in writing. in the context of the commission's report on macedonia, we are forced to talk about viktor orbán again. it must be said: former prime minister nikola gruevski did not simply escape from justice, but was smuggled out by hungarian diplomats on the personal instructions of viktor orbán. the action was condemned by a significant part of the hungarian public, the opposition and the rest of the free press. this is orbán's own action, which shows once again why it was right that the ep voted for the sargentini report. viktor orbán has once again spat on the rule of law, not only at home but also in the balkans. he has again used state bodies in an unacceptable manner to carry out and cover up his invented violations. and now orbán's mafia government is wrapping up a politician who was legally convicted of abuse of power. the foreign ministry's escape operation is a crime even in viktor orbán's hungary. the fact that this has no consequences proves once again that hungary is not a state of law today. on behalf of all democratic hungarian citizens, i demand that the hungarian government extradite nikola gruevski to macedonia; follow the macedonian, albanian and serbian governments for illegally using the hungarian diplomatic corps. i ask that parliament support the s&d motions condemning gruevski's escape; i call on the european people's party to draw the conclusion from orbán's new breach of law and to take the long-delayed decision to exclude fidesz from the christian democratic party family.
in writing. – this report reconfirms that the fyr of macedonia is a functioning state of law, and has been making important progress in reforming its judicial system to deal with – among other things – corruption—related crimes. that is why in this debate we cannot avoid facing the ongoing gruevski scandal: the fact that a member of the eu – the hungarian authorities, acting upon orders from viktor orbán himself – have actively assisted the illegal escape of the former macedonian prime minister, and granted asylum to this legally convicted criminal. orbán’s unprecedented provocation, in total contempt of international – and eu – law deliberately damages european interests and jointly agreed cfsp and enlargement policy decisions. the gruevski scandal raises the responsibility of those who just recently decided to keep orbán in their ranks, and – naively, or cynically – took his promise to behave more democratically. well, mr weber, you cannot hold this actual dictator on a short leash. what you got from your political friend orbán is a slap in the face, another humiliating, anti—european provocation, making the ppe an accomplice to his – and gruevski’s – illegal actions... and hopefully the conviction that it is time to act now, to get rid of this source of embarrassment.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you very much, madam president, and i am grateful for the opportunity to express my views as the representative of the people's party on this report, entitled: recommendations to the council, the commission and the high representative for foreign affairs on how to protect academic freedom in the eu's external action. this is a very important issue, because protecting academic freedom, research and scientific life is a noble goal, and as we see around the world, there are countless instances where teachers and scientists have to flee for their lives. when education laws are made that deny hundreds of thousands of minority language students and university students the right to learn in their mother tongue - and i could even list - the general terms, i agree. however, neither these specific phenomena nor any third or partner country is addressed by name in the report, only hungary and the ceu in an interesting way. what is this, if not another political hoax against hungary? another smear campaign organized by the left, socialists, greens and liberals to politically smear hungary. and the saddest part is that you, dear militant lawyers, have never spoken out in defense of the transcarpathian hungarian school system, which they want to abolish under the new ukrainian education law, but you have not even spoken out in the case of the hungarian university in marosvásárhely, which the romanians want to merge. so it's clear that your goal is not to protect academic freedom, but to launch another attack against hungary. i'm sorry about that.
madam president, please. it is a shocking contradiction that while the european parliament and the commission's reports are giving an ultimatum-like rebuke to the romanian rule of law, which is at its lowest ebb, presidents jean-claude juncker and antonio tajani are celebrating in a festive way the anniversary of the great romania, which, on the centenary of its foundation, is committing new and new attacks on the european rule of law. the refusal to return hungarian public property confiscated during the communist era, on the other hand, the repatriation of the reformed college of mikó in székely, the batthyáneum in gyulafehérvár and the public forests in ozdol, is simultaneously a gross deprivation of rights committed to the detriment of private property and discriminating against minority hungarians. romania could most worthily celebrate the restoration of justice and legality, the guarantee of the democratic rule of law. for this we ask for the support of europe and pope francis.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the global compact is an important contribution to the responses to the global challenge of migration and asylum. the draft clearly sets out the framework and makes it clear that the protection of refugees, the right to seek asylum, is a human right that cannot be called into question. it is more than regrettable that there are some eu member states whose leaders, for selfish political reasons and reasons, are not willing to accept the global compact. we have to understand that those who reject this statement are not interested in solving the problem, but on the contrary, they are interested in not solving the refugee and immigration issues, because they are making political capital out of it. it is a grossly irresponsible, shameful, immoral and inhumane policy, the consequences of which will affect us all. that is why we must raise our voices - for shared responsibility - against the politics of hate and fear.
in writing. a close reading of the un global migration package makes it clear that it does not reflect europe's interests and is harmful and dangerous to europe. the document presents migration as a positive phenomenon, equating illegal economic migration with the issue of genuine refugees and legal migration, and treating illegal migration as something of a fundamental right. it would oblige countries to inform migrants about migration routes and launch information campaigns for them. it would also facilitate the family reunification of migrants and provide the same services to migrants as to nationals. the word "obligation" appears 80 times in the document, so the claim that it is merely a recommendation is far from true. the adoption of the package would therefore have irreversible consequences for the development of legal interpretation and customary law, since they would become a reference point and a basis for international arbitration. this is contrary to the interests of the european people. following hungary's example, eight countries have already decided to withdraw from the process of adopting the package, and several other member states are considering withdrawing from the migration compact. i see a return to common sense on our continent, and more and more people are realizing that this is a document that is harmful to national interests, a document that is dangerous to our europe, and one that clearly divides the union.
in writing. in 2013, the empl committee adopted the opinion on women with disabilities, which i had been rapporteur for, with 33 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. five years on, it is important to stress that all forms of discrimination on the grounds of disability and gender must be prohibited. the group of women with disabilities is more excluded, more discriminated against. the european social fund should be used as an effective tool to increase the involvement of women with disabilities in all important areas of life in the labour market, in free access to training and (general) education . women have higher rates of inactivity, work in jobs requiring fewer skills, less responsibility and lower pay, live in greater social isolation, and are more financially dependent on family and carers. as the population ages, the proportion of older people with disabilities is increasing, with more women due to their longer life expectancy. more attention should be paid to deaf people who use sign language, especially the elderly who are hard of hearing (their number and proportion in society is increasing). the union and the member states should share examples of innovative design and cooperate in the field of standardisation. challenging stereotypes can also be achieved through the real, inspiring example of women with disabilities, showing how their abilities compensate for their disability and enable them to succeed in professional and family life.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 december 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report on the protection of workers at risk from carcinogens and mutagens at work (com ((2017) 0011 c8-0010/2017 2017/0004 (cod)) (a8-0142/2018) tabled by mr claude rolin on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 december 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 178/2002 on the transparency and sustainability of union risk assessment in the food chain and on the general food law, directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed, regulation (ec) no 1831/2003 on additives for use in animal nutrition, regulation (ec) no 2065/2003 on smoke flavourings, regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 on food contact materials, regulation (ec) no 1331/2008 on a uniform authorisation procedure for food additives, food colours and food flavourings (com (2018) 0178 final) and regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the market in food and feed (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p.
madam president, please. the eu summit will be informally about brexit, especially in light of the postponed vote in the uk parliament. of course, it matters a great deal whether the united kingdom leaves the union with or without an agreement, if it leaves at all. at the same time, we are not addressing the question raised by syed kamall, leader of the ecr group back in 2017. he said the departure of a member state should lead to a deeper reflection on the state of the union. there has been an excessive centralisation of powers, which has led to citizens not feeling attached to the institutions of the union. referendums, elections have proved that the people of the union reject the model of a federal state. the eu must be reformed to become a community of nations working together in confederal institutions. well, regardless of the outcome of brexit, but partly as a lesson from it, this reform is necessary if we want to avoid the eu's break-up.
madam president, whatever the outcome of the brexit process – and it really is in the lap of the gods – there are a number of other issues that will affect the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. deal or no deal, postponement of brexit or no postponement, the european union has a vital interest in the united kingdom being a stable and predictable third country. history, geography and much else besides, all point in that direction, but what does being a third country actually mean? it’s really hard to say. it can be anything from switzerland to, say, tuvalu. it would be helpful to think this problem through. the other problem is the united kingdom itself, the durability of which is vital for europe, but where what we can see is the emergence of significant political differences between the constituent parts of the country – scotland and northern ireland above all. and, of equal significance, the gap between london and what might be called the non-london periphery, whether cultural, political or economic, is wider than ever. the cohesion of the united kingdom is a necessary condition of stability, and that may be an internal affair but it impacts on the european union and on much of the rest of the world for that matter. the european union should not lose sight of this.
mr president it's hard to justify my vote in this confusion, but i'll do it anyway. i voted in favour of the report, but i stress that the future of young people and their chances on the european labour market would require that the european union, in addition to general calls to member states, should be able to support the digitalisation of education in a commonly agreed and financed way, on the basis of uniform requirements and legislation. we know of many examples that could also serve the objectives outlined in the report effectively in the field of education. based on my own experience of parliamentary work, i would like to mention the smart villages for europe project, which now enjoys the full support of the eu institutions and whose central element is the community promotion of equal opportunities for rural populations through the means of digitalisation.
mr president i voted in favour of this report, particularly because of its aspects on agriculture and renewable energy. i welcome the fact that a significant part of the proposed expansion of life is being allocated to the new clean energy transition sub-programme, as the transition to a clean, low-carbon energy strategy is urgently needed to achieve the decarbonisation objective of the paris agreement. however, the programme shall not undermine the objectives of other union legislation and policies, such as the common agricultural policy. the environmental sub-programme should also cover sustainable farming practices, including soil and agricultural biodiversity, soil and water protection and the overall concept of smart villages.
mr president i voted in favour of this report, and i agree that we should have the right to know the risk assessments of the european food safety authority in good time. the report correctly illustrates how widespread distrust of the herbicide glyphosate, for example, has triggered a public debate about herbicides and plant protection products in general. the european commission rightly felt that public confidence in risk assessment should be strengthened and has committed itself to presenting an appropriate legislative proposal. the new proposed rules would make the analysis of the conformity of food more transparent and the scientific analyses used more reliable, objective and independent. of course, this requires more resources, but we must not be stingy in carrying out these scientific tasks.
in writing. the tragic events in strasbourg demonstrate the importance of the european parliament having a special committee on terrorism. in recent years, hundreds of innocent european citizens have unfortunately fallen victim to terrorism on our continent, and the number of victims has increased further with the events in strasbourg. everything must be done to restore the security of the people of europe and to prevent this from happening again. by adopting the report of the special committee, the european parliament first acknowledges the link between illegal migration and terrorism and finally acknowledges the obvious fact that the perpetrators of terrorist acts in europe have in many cases entered the union through illegal migration routes. the report provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of counter-terrorism measures and makes useful recommendations in a number of areas, including the prevention of radicalisation, the fight against terrorist financing, the fight against the illicit trade in firearms, and cooperation and information exchange between police and intelligence services in the member states. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is particularly important to create the material conditions for the implementation of the new legislation at the border, to introduce biometric checks and to establish interoperability of databases.
eleven speakers from three different political parties applied. since we're 18 minutes away from the midnight schedule, i'd like to narrow it down to mr. kelly, mr. pascura and my colleague hadjigeorgiou from gue. so, we'll start the speeches with mr. kelly, everyone has one minute, please.
we couldn't have wrapped up this "catch the eye" today better than with a very kind colleague of ours. i'd like to call mrs. kaufmann, who will also be speaking in japanese, and ask her to translate, as we regret that there is no translation available for this occasion.
thank you very much. could you summarize it briefly in english for us so we can translate it for our viewers?
my dear colleague. i gave the floor to the following parties in the order in which you presented yourselves. i've been withholding the word from the others on the grounds that we're short on time. i'm going to ask that everyone submit their objections in writing.
you were here from the beginning but somebody put their hand up earlier than you. i am very sorry, i am just saving time for the others and for the interpreters, but thank you very much for drawing this to my attention.
thank you for your comment. i've chosen those who did not leave the room during the debate, and from your group i've chosen your vice president as the main speaker, if you don't mind, mr. pascu.
yes, ma'am, that's why i said you were here all along, but i chose your vice president, mr. pascu, as the main spokesman for your group. i have decided that in your case, in the case of your group, i have not chosen the first speaker, nor the one who has been in the chamber all the time, but the vice-president of the socialist group, mr pascu.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the report on the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement will be voted on on wednesday 12 december 2018. the commission statement on the adequacy of the protection of personal data offered by japan will be voted on thursday 13 december 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after the entry 'declaration by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy', judgment of the european court of human rights in selahattin demirtaş (2018/2980 ((rsp))
mr. president, i have to go. the text of the un global migration package was adopted yesterday in marrakesh. the european parliament voted by a large majority to approve the report on humanitarian visas. in their place, both documents pave the way for the legalization of illegal immigration. at the global and continental level, the un and the eu want to facilitate the migration rather than stop it. our human rights report, with the support of the un initiative and the so-called humanitarian visa, is trying to do the same. i welcome the countries that, along with hungary, reject the un pact. we must protect europe and our countries from illegal migration that threatens their demographic composition and sovereignty, their culture and their identity!
mr president hungary stands for the territorial unity and autonomy of ukraine, but at the same time it follows its policy concerning minorities as a priority. the only solution to the conflict with russia is to settle it through negotiations, and to avoid any escalation of the situation. it is important that the report includes a number of minority protection passages, such as access to native language media in the context of the electoral law. i do not agree with his classification of education reform as one of the successful reforms, but he also urges ukraine to implement the recommendations of the venice commission on article 7 through dialogue with minorities. i have repeatedly expressed my concern about the anti-hungarian demonstrations by far-right organisations, and i welcome the fact that the report highlights the importance of curbing far-right groups and the inaction of the ukrainian government. i miss the language bill passed in the first reading, which violates minority rights, and the mention of the venice commission's opinion on it in the text, and the ethnic-based considerations of the intelligence service. i hope that ukraine will take into account the critical parts of the report and the terms of the association agreement.
in writing. the weight of the historic task facing our ukrainian partners and friends is indicated by the fact that four years after the signing of the association agreement between the european union and a free and independent ukraine, and two years after its entry into force, the first and most important message from the eu in assessing the results achieved is still that ukraine's security, territorial integrity, democratic future and european future must be upheld. the european parliament's united support for the eu is now more important than ever, given the new russian aggression in the sea of azov and the tense domestic political situation. at the same time, the credibility of our support is conditional on a consistent accountability of the ukrainian government to the implementation of the reform tasks jointly identified in the association agreement. the shortcomings are clearly identified in this report while acknowledging the extraordinary achievements to date with a focus on judicial reform and the fight against corruption. as a hungarian politician, i would like to emphasize the enforcement of minority rights in accordance with european standards. i welcome our expectation as set out in the report, which urges the implementation of the education act by adhering to the recommendations of the venice commission, based on a meaningful dialogue with minorities, extending the transition period until 2023. the ukrainian authorities must understand that their continued delay will only fuel the extreme ukrainian nationalists, fuel the false albanian foreign policy that blocks the country's european and atlantic links on the pretext of the issue, and indirectly serve putin's hostile ambitions.
in writing. hungary has been a committed supporter of ukraine's european integration from the beginning. nevertheless, its eastern neighbour has in recent years pursued a brutal anti-minority policy towards its hungarian community of about 150,000 people, which in many respects surpasses the former soviet-communist repression. the ukrainizing assimilation policy seeks with an unveiled intention to abolish not only the hungarian, but also the bukovina romanian and bessarabian bulgarian language education system, as well as to drastically restrict the use of the mother tongue of national minorities. he calls hungarians the scapegoats and not only restricts their rights, but also carries out intimidating propaganda against them, which amounts to verbal aggression. the ukrainian report is extremely moderate in its treatment of minority issues. international organisations - including the eu - are largely silent on the issue of minority rights violations. as a result, our vulnerable national communities are becoming the innocent victims of nationalist domestic political games, the upcoming presidential election campaign, and not least, international geopolitical interests. i am grateful to president antonio tajani for his intercession on behalf of the hungarian community and i urge parliament and the commission to act decisively and effectively to protect the ukrainian minorities, including the hungarians, whose existence is threatened.
african swine fever is a challenge for the whole of europe, as this serious animal disease has already been detected in 10 member states. i would like to emphasise that in hungary it has been possible to ensure that the devastating swine fever does not infect domestic pigs, thanks to the strict protection measures introduced. it is in our interest that the necessary eu funds are available for both the official protection and the compensation of the farmers who have suffered damage. it is a great success that in the draft budget for next year, together with my colleagues tomás deutsch and sógor csaba, we have managed to allocate 50 million euros to deal with the damage caused by swine fever. i ask the commission to increase this resource if it has the opportunity. in addition, i expect the commission to do everything possible to persuade third countries affected by eu exports, in particular china, taiwan and hong kong, to lift the export ban on eu countries affected by swine fever. we must convince these countries to accept the international principle of regionalization. we need to get them to agree not to ban all exports because of swine fever, but only exports from the affected counties. i await the committee's representative's kind response to both of my questions.
