on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it was a great honour, if challenging, to be the rapporteur for my group on the renewable energy file. it was much more complex than i could have imagined, but nevertheless very satisfying because of the spirit and cooperation that existed amongst the shadows, for which mr blanco lópez in particular deserves great praise. indeed i met him so often out here in the new cafe that i am proposing that it should be called the blanco bar. for me there were two key points from the outset. firstly, there was a need to raise ambition but, secondly, to do that without impinging on investor certainty. i think we have got that in the end. our increased ambition from 27% to 35% is 30% higher than the commission’s proposals and, indeed, what the council want as well. we have given investors certainty, albeit trying to drive them and nourish them under this sustainable criteria into the future. for that we will need a strong vote from parliament if we are to answer claude turmes’ question and now urge the council to come with us so that we can have europe as the renewable capital of the world.
mr president, is there any area that is more controversial and more difficult to get consensus on than the fishing area? i see that in my own country. i see it here. i see mr mato, who is an excellent politician and chairman, coming forward with his speech. then commissioner vella, who is equally sincere, takes issue with some of the points made and i say to myself, when are we going to get all this together? how are we going to convince enough people that we can have a good majority going in the one direction? it seems to me to be very difficult. one thing that is absolutely necessary is independent, empirical scientific evidence before we do anything, and that doesn’t seem to be available. we get different groups coming forward with different proposals – electro-pulse fishing is an example – to me it seems to go against the grain and against the natural order. do the fish have any chance if you are going to extend it? why have it as an experiment if you do not intend to extend it further, and perhaps even eliminate the whole lot of them? so i think that there is a huge job of work to be done by the commission in relation to pr in all of this.
madam president, thank you for your forbearance and i apologise for not coming in earlier. i would like to congratulate my colleague on the report. i think it is very important that europe should lead in this area, in terms of governance of our oceans, not least because of our responsibilities in delivering on sustainable development goals. if we cannot do it no other part of the world will, and it does require from our side a very clear leadership role. we know huge progress has been made in recycling in recent years but much of that progress has been made on the development of markets in other parts of the world. where those markets are not there in the future, or diminish in the future, that should not in any way reduce our resolve to make sure that recycling rates continue to grow here within the european union. if we cannot lead on this issue, as i said, no one else will follow us. that is why it is so important when it comes to our seas, be it in the area of industrial fishing, plastics, the whole question of pollution, that the european union has to lead on this issue. this report challenges those of us within the 28 member states to do much more in terms of leadership.
madam president, it is 2018 and the eu still has not found a solution to the european court of justice’s (ecj) vnuk ruling of 2014, a ruling that has had such a profound effect on motor insurance across europe. if anyone wanted to discredit the eu’s decision-making process, the vnuk case is a prime example. the commission has itself acknowledged on several occasions that the ruling adopted by the ecj is a problem and that it requires a quick solution, but the commission has tiptoed around providing a solution. in the meantime, citizens all over europe who use motor vehicles on private land will have no clarity about whether they require third-party liability cover for their vehicles. likewise, insurance companies will take advantage of the vnuk ruling. vnuk is the law until it is changed. my country, ireland, along with other member states, has not changed domestic law, as it is required to do if this issue is not challenged. we now have a legal limbo, which must be addressed quickly by the commission, otherwise it will have dramatic consequences for farmers, the construction industry and indeed motor sports enthusiasts, who will pay a hugely unfair price for a hugely unfair ruling.
madam president, journalism is a cornerstone of democracy, holding those in power to account. the appointment of editor-in-chief of independent news & media, stephen rae, to the eu expert group on fake news beggars belief. mr rae talks of the widespread damage done by the wilful dissemination of false information and social media platforms. what about the damage done by mr rae's sacking of a journalist for trying to uncover the quashing of penalty points for influential people, including possibly himself, or the damage done by his newspaper when its reporting aided a vicious fake news smear campaign against a garda whistleblower, or how about the damage done to another journalist who is hampered from writing about the now commissioner phil hogan? and more still is the damage done to democracy by his paymaster, denis o’brien, who is reported as having a chilling effect on news-gathering and reporting in the public interest. it is behaviour like this that damages trust in mainstream media and aids the spread of fake news. i am calling on commissioner gabriel to reconsider mr rae’s appointment.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr ratas on the work that he has done on the presidency. mr ratas, you come from a small country. i don’t know what you have in common with me politically, but you have the future of your three children to think of, as do i. as someone who comes from a small country, you appreciate the fact that you are independent. in 1991 with great celebrations, and rightfully so, you celebrated your freedom from the soviet union, and you have done very well since. as many speakers have said here and pointed towards, small nations can do very well. it is in that light and on that topic that i have to say that there is one part i am a little bit disappointed about, in fact very disappointed, because something massive happened during your presidency and a nation did attempt to get free. catalonia attempted to get free. they had a referendum, but you made a very glib statement on it. spain is a democratic state based on the rule of law. where was the rule of law when people were being beaten up at polling stations? where was the rule of law when people were bloodied, when people were denied their democratic right? is it the case that having celebrated your own freedom, and rightfully so, and got free and done well out of it, that now you have pulled up the drawbridge and you have forgotten about others? ireland has done well with independence. you have done well with independence. why stop catalonia doing the same? why not let them have a voice? why have their leaders exiled? why not mention it here?
blue-card question. – [beginning of speech inaudible] and also very pro-european. i just want to ask him, as a follow-up to what he said, about the possibility of a change of heart. how could that come about, and in what timeline? i think it is probably unlikely between now and next march. if that is the will of the british people, what can we do to facilitate that?
mr president, firstly, i would like to say that i agree wholeheartedly with president juncker when he speaks about the migration crisis and the refugees, especially that there is a need for burden sharing. pressure needs to be put on the countries who thus far have not taken on their fair share in that regard because, at a time of economic growth, thankfully, right across all member states, surely every member state can take in the required number of refugees. secondly, i was delighted that donald tusk and jean-claude juncker both emphasised that the door is always open for the united kingdom to change their minds. that is a very positive message, as richard corbett and others have said. in relation to that, i would like to ask president tusk if, subsequent to march 2019, would a long transition period, rather than a short transition period, be more appropriate to ensure that this could happen and give the british people an opportunity to reflect and then make a decision?
the president, the vice-president and the members of the commission shall be entitled to vote on the report. the environmental health of the oceans is under significant threat and at risk of being irreversibly damaged unless the eu community undertakes targeted and coordinated efforts to solve the root problems. this report reaffirms the importance of international ocean governance and its economic, environmental and social components, particularly as it relates to goal 14 of the sustainable development goals: to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources. in particular, i supported three priority areas, as set out in the joint communication, and any innovative technological, as well as financial, initiatives addressing ocean and sea pollution to promote efficient recovery systems for waste from shipping, for example, and marine litter in general, with the aim of eliminating it and especially in relation to plastics, which can be described as the great environmental crime of our time. from an irish point of view and from a european point of view, we owe it to ourselves and above all our coastal communities to deal with these difficulties.
mr president, i think this discussion helps us to focus on a lot of the good work that the european union does, for which it gets no credit, and definitely not from its critics. it has contributed enormously to the peace process in my own country, northern ireland, which has been going on for many years and it will continue, as indicated in the first phase of the withdrawal agreement on brexit. iran is another example of the great diplomatic efforts and influence of the high representative and the european union. here we have a very important role to play in colombia because we are not a threat to anybody. i think it is great to see us using our initiative and our goodwill to help people move along with the peace process. in columbia, i remember well, a constituent of mine, michael dwyer, was killed there, and there were a lot of questions to be answered about that a few years ago. so it is great to see peace coming to these places, and hopefully also prosperity and safety.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this debate has been a very useful exchange. i thank the members for their valuable interventions, and from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using eu diplomatic power and instruments to support the colombian peace process. we will continue to look at how best to use all of our instruments in this direction, in particular in stabilisation and development assistance, political dialogue, humanitarian relief and specific support for human rights, gender and democracy. and promoting post-conflict economic growth through the eu-colombia trade agreement. i am proud of our contribution to the peace process in colombia, the eu contribution to this very demanding and difficult peace processes. that is why i would like to clarify two specific issues. some of you raised the issue of rural reform. yes, the eu is supporting such programmes with an amount of almost eur 120 million for this specific reform. my second point is about our funding through the trust fund. it is completely in accordance with our rules, and fits into in the framework of accountability and transparency. may i close by signalling once again, as the commission, our appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping these important issues not only on the european agenda, but also on the international agenda?
in writing. – the tragic and saddening situation in colombia is not what we had hoped for. although the first phases of the peace agreement have been implemented and subsequently, combatants have been disarmed and demobilised, there are still many challenges which the country is facing. violent incidents have risen, due to drug-trafficking groups taking over farc areas in places where there is no state presence. the temporarily agreed ceasefire is soon coming to an end and we hope that an agreement will be reached on a permanent ceasefire, as it has been proven that violence is not the way forward. the violent events which have happened in recent days are very worrying as they are undermining the political peace process in every way. that is why an honest effort needs to be made on behalf of all parties involved to resume talks.
mr president, if i may mention at the outset, as this is a debate about trade and globalisation, that last week peter sutherland, a former commissioner – and indeed a man who has been dubbed the father of globalisation – passed away and was buried in his home country of ireland. he was european and irish, but very much a man who believed in the power of trade to free people from poverty and destitution. i think it is important to name him in this house, because i think we believe that too. he also, in his latter years, did a huge amount of work to help refugees, because he believed in humanity and the dignity of every human person. maybe in that context we should frame this debate about trade and sustainable development. we should also be quite anxious that europe is perhaps needing to lead on this, because the wto is not functioning as you and i would like it to. maybe the commissioner could allude to that and why this debate is so important. the issues of human rights, workers’ rights and environmental standards are something we hold dear here in europe, and we fight for better standards all the time. we want to think that, when it comes to trade, those who we make arrangements and agreements with also strive to reach those standards. the question is how we translate aspirations into reality: how we monitor, how we control and how we use that term ‘sanction’ not in the way it is framed in this question, but how we actually get countries to react and respond to our concerns. one of our colleagues here mentioned the protection of producers. in that context, i want to talk about the producers i represent on the committee on agriculture and rural development. there is a real dilemma here for us in the european parliament, because agriculture is always an issue when it comes to trade agreements and our concerns for producers and the food supply system that we have here in europe. to some extent, we have concerns not just on the environment, human rights and workers’ rights, but around animal welfare standards and food safety standards. so this issue is quite broad and it needs careful reflection. the trouble, i fear, is that people will turn away from globalisation, and that the values and the merits it brought that peter sutherland believed in with great passion will be lost to future generations if we do not get this right.
taoiseach. – mr president, thank you very much. i’ve written down a few notes. i mightn’t be able to answer everyone but i’ll do my best to touch on as many topics as i can. first of all, i particularly want to thank almost all the speakers here today for their ongoing support and solidarity with ireland. that’s very much recognised, and we are very grateful for that. i think ms zimmer spoke about the need to reduce inequality among member states, and i think that’s something that i can very much sign up to as well. it’s been a long time since enlargement and there is still a huge gap in prosperity between western europe, on the one hand, and the countries of central and eastern europe, on the other. that’s why it is so important that the next multiannual financial framework and the next european budget contain adequate funding to continue to improve the infrastructure in central and eastern europe, and also to support the common agricultural policy. that’s why it is so important as well, as i mentioned in my speech earlier, that we put forward a realistic pathway to european membership for the western balkans. i think the best way we can stabilise that part of europe, those countries that used to be part of yugoslavia and albania, is to give them a pathway towards joining the european union. on tax, which i know is an issue of contention between many people in this chamber and in ireland, the view that we take as a government – and i think it is shared by a lot of governments – is that national taxes should fund national budgets. that’s, therefore, a national competence and a matter of national sovereignty. we do have european taxes at the moment that fund the european budget, or at least in. we have that with customs, we had that to a degree with vat, and that’s something that i am not opposed to at all. if you look at the model that exists in the united states, which is a federation after all, there is a lot of tax competition between member states. there are federal income taxes and there are state income taxes. there are different sales taxes in different member states. so if the united states, the most successful economy in the world, can have tax competition among member states, why can’t we have the same? as i have said, we have a number of federal taxes, european taxes, already, that fund the eu budget, and that is something that i think works quite well. in terms of the apple case, it is important not to forget that it is a state-aid case. technically it is not a tax case, but a state-aid case, and the contention is that ireland had a special deal with one particular company. quite frankly, we didn’t. that is why that case is being appealed both by apple and by the irish government. ultimately, the european courts and the european court of justice will make a judgment on that and, whatever that judgment is, our government will accept it. we’re establishing an escrow account, we will collect the money, or at least start collecting it, in the second quarter of this year. and the money will be held in the escrow account until that decision is made by the european court of justice. but it is our contention and it is our belief that we did not have a special arrangement with that company, and we can’t say that we did when we know that we didn’t. but, ultimately, that is going to be a matter for those courts to decide. i want to say that ireland is not a tax haven, we don’t want to be a tax haven, and we certainly don’t want to be seen or perceived as a tax haven. we have no interest, in fact, in a race to the bottom. our low corporation tax rate, 12.5%, has been around for 20 or 30 years now. we haven’t increased it, we haven’t reduced it, but we’ve just kept it exactly as it is now. ireland won’t win a race to the bottom. it’s already the case that a number of countries have a lower tax rate for corporations than we do – hungary and bulgaria, just to give two examples. so if this is a race to the bottom, it is not one that ireland is going to win. as was mentioned by other speakers, countries like france, just to use one example, have a high corporation profit tax on paper but have so many exemptions and so many different ways not to pay tax that, according to the oecd, their effective tax rate is actually lower than ours. so if it is a race the bottom, it is not one that ireland is going to win and, therefore, it is not one that we want to participate in. the future of our economy and the future of our prosperity is going to be much more about human capital and attracting talent and people than attracting companies based on corporate tax rate. we have already made a number of big changes to our tax policy. we’ve abolished the ‘double irish’, got rid of stateless corporations, and we’ve started taxing intellectual property again just this year. we’ll continue to make steps in those directions and close loopholes, but we want other countries to do that as well, quite frankly. there is a bit of hypocrisy about that when you look at the amount of money that we actually collect in terms of corporate taxes versus other countries who collect so much less but yet on paper have a higher tax rate. i think that needs to be challenged. (applause) it’s also very much my strong contention that the progress that we make on this should be done at international level through the oecd process. i say that for a very obvious reason: europeans should not do something unilaterally that only causes other countries that are not part of the european union to gain an advantage over us, whether it is the united states, japan, or whether it is the united kingdom, which, of course, is going to leave. we need to bear that in mind in anything that we do. on climate change, ireland is somewhat unusual compared to other countries in that a huge amount of our greenhouse gas emissions come from agriculture. that’s because we have never really had heavy industry. we never had those big heavy industries that other countries have decommissioned and shut down, and achieved their targets in that way. that’s not something we can do. as far as i am concerned, we are a laggard. i am not proud of ireland’s performance on climate change. we need to do a lot more, and one of the things my government will do in the next few months is to publish our 10-year investment plan, our capital investment plan for ireland over the next 10 years. central to that will be the kind of things that we want to do around climate change to make sure we meet those targets in 2030. that includes things such as, in transport, electrifying our railways. we only have one small part of our railway that is electrified. it’s about transitioning our public transport and our bus fleet to low emissions. it’s about electric cars, in particular, where we have put in some incentives, but have not got the results that we would like. there are lots of things that we intend to do so that we can meet those targets. it’s something that i am very committed to, and certainly my generation of politicians is committed to. it’s not just the right thing to do; it makes sense economically, i think, in the longer term as well. in terms of the contribution of ms dodds, which i very much welcome, certainly i have no wish to see any borders between northern ireland and ireland. i also have no wish to see any new borders or barriers between britain and ireland, or between northern ireland and britain. that’s why i did not want brexit, because i do not want any borders. (applause) certainly, we will do everything we can to avoid any of that taking place. i know what you said and i understand what you said, that the union that is most important for you is the united kingdom, and the single market that is most important to you is the single market of the united kingdom, and 70% of northern ireland’s trade is with the rest of the united kingdom. i acknowledge that, but it should not be a choice between the 70% and the 30%. why not take the hundred per cent? it’s possible to have special arrangements for northern ireland, if needs be, that allow northern ireland to have that because of its unique situation. that is something that i work for and something that i hope that politicians from all sides in northern ireland will be open to. if 100% is possible, take that, not 70% instead of 30%. i hope it is possible for us to have that discussion. it’ll be more in the future. in relation to mr farage’s contribution, as a matter of information i have never worked here, by the way. i have worked in ireland and the united states. i have never worked in europe or for a european institution. (applause)but in relation to small countries, i really have to disagree because i experienced that in a very personal way, not just in relation to the support that we have received on brexit from the european institutions but also when, for the first time, i attended a european council meeting of the prime ministers and presidents of europe. it’s a really interesting and humbling experience to get to do that. i know some of you who have been prime ministers will have had that experience, but for council ministers it is very different. you go into this massive room, you sit there, the ambassador sits beside you, you have six officials behind you and it is a very different experience when you go into the council of ministers. i went into the council of ministers for the first time last year. i sat around the table. there were no officials there. the only people there were the president of the council, the president of the commission and the heads of government of 26, 27 or 28 member states. i come from a country that has only 4.5 million people. we’re a small country. there are many provinces, even cities, in other european countries that have more people than mine, have a bigger economy than mine, and i was sitting around the table as an equal with the president of france, the chancellor of germany, the prime minister of spain, the prime minister of italy, these really big countries, and that isn’t the way europe used to work. before the european union, the big countries would get together, decide what was right for europe, and would tell the rest of us. that doesn’t happen any more because of the european council and because of these european institutions. i am not so naive as to think that a country like ireland, with 4.5 million people, can ever have the power or importance of a country like germany, with 80 million people and its massive economy. but the european union allows small countries to have a seat at the table when decisions are made, as opposed to having no say at all. that’s why i believe small countries are so much better off in this union. (applause) finally, in relation to britain, i want to say that britain is a country that i care a lot about. irish people are very close to british people in so many ways, even though sometimes we don’t like to admit that. in so many ways we have a shared culture and a shared history, and that’s very much the experience of my family as well. my parents met, fell in love and got married in england. she’s an irish nurse and he’s a doctor from india. they both went to britain to build a new life and that’s where they met, that’s where they married, and that’s where they fell in love. that’s where my sister was born. she still lives there, in london, with my niece and nephew, who are english kids. they point at the union jack, and they say, ‘leo, that’s our flag’. that’s how close irish people in many ways are to british people. we are connected by blood in so many different ways and that’s why i really regret the decision that has been made on brexit, because so much will be lost. young people will lose the right to live, work and study anywhere in the european union, losing those rights as european citizens. my niece and nephew won’t, because they are entitled to irish passports, but the other kids in their class will, and i think that’s a real shame. british businesses could lose their access to the biggest market in the world. farmers, food producers, even the beer makers that you and i are so fond of, could lose the subsidies that they currently benefit from, which are not guaranteed beyond this parliament. i am also conscious of british veterans, very brave people who fought on the beaches of france not just for britain but also for european democracy and for european values, and people like that are always in my mind. so, notwithstanding the decision to leave, and i respect that decision, i will absolutely fight hard to ensure that we can have a partnership and relationship between the uk and the eu that are as close as possible. it’s in ireland’s interests and i think it is in the interests of british people and in the interests of the european union as well. we should conclude a new partnership and a new agreement with the uk. but fundamentally what we have to move away from is any idea that any country can have a relationship that involves taking all the benefits and none of the responsibilities and obligations. that’s the fundamental thing that we need to insist on. (applause)
the president, as head of fhine gael in parliament, would like to welcome the taoiseach, leo varadkar, to the house today and congratulate him on his visit to us. and thanks to you, to uasail tajani, to manfred weber and to the other leaders, we have the opportunity to be here today to talk and debate about the future of europe. i was going to ask a question about climate change but that has been dealt with, so there is no need to repeat it, even though we will have a vote shortly on the renewable energy file, for which i am honoured to be a rapporteur. my question to him is very simple. he talked about ireland being one of the most prosperous countries in europe right now, but unfortunately we have a history of going from boom to bust, and bust to boom. what can he do, as a result of the prosperity we now enjoy, due to good leadership by him and his predecessor, and the cooperation of the european union, to ensure we do not go into a bust situation again and particularly avoid auction politics at general elections, which has often been the root cause of this? go raibh maith agat, to uachtaráin, agus fáilte romhat arís, leo. i'm going to go to the hospital, and i'm going to see the doctor. we are proud of you!
mr president, i must start by thanking the taoiseach for his continued efforts and commitment to preserve the peace process and to prevent the formation of barriers within the island of ireland on foot of the uk’s decision to withdraw from the union. however, taoiseach, i do not share your ideology in other ways, so i must also follow that with a plea to you, as taoiseach of ireland and as a member of the european political force whose world view and power has most considerably shaped both the emergence of the financial and economic crisis a decade ago and the measures taken in response to it since. that plea is that you work to mend the frayed social contract that combined together our communities at national and european level. just as the conflict in the north of ireland hid inequality and deprivation of basic rights under a cloak of ethno-religious hatred, so today the march of disillusioned citizens draws much energy from the losers of globalisation and the losers of our response to a crisis of globalisation. we saved finance and strived for a return to the status quo ante in a transfer of wealth without precedent, and i agree with mr kofod’s view of our corporate taxation regime. fair taxation – even a modicum of taxation in some cases – might just help us to do what i have already suggested and, who knows, make the case for the retrospective bank recapitalisation that we never saw.
mr president, good morning taoiseach, and welcome – and i see you’ve brought the snow with you! three things: this morning you spoke of direct democracy. you said it was one of our four challenges. you supported an eu-wide list and the spitzenkandidat. but taoiseach, that is representative democracy, not direct democracy. direct democracy is something like the citizens’ initiative, where one million citizens from seven member states call on the eu to act. so will you support real direct democracy? secondly, you spoke of ireland’s commitment to permanent structured cooperation (pesco). you said that we won’t be part of a single european defence budget. but do you envisage that the commitment we have made will mean increased defence and security spending in ireland? finally, tax justice. you said twice this morning the eu cannot act unilaterally. but the eu often acts unilaterally in trying to shape global policy. do you see ireland as having any role in shaping this policy, where all – citizens and multinationals – pay their fair share of tax?
mr president, i would like to say the following to the taoiseach. in 2013, you said there would not be another cent for the banks. last year, on your watch, our central bank destroyed eur 4 billion, and in the last years eur 9.5 billion at a time when ireland is suffering unprecedented crisis in housing and in health. this ongoing destruction of billions is the promissory note legacy, a direct result of the full bail-out of an insolvent anglo irish bank, that bail-out at a time of crisis in the eu, a time when ireland was left isolated on the front line by its so-called friends. so tell me, what do you think happens if there is another crisis in the eu? a crisis, let’s say, on the eastern borders. in the banking crisis the eu institutions thought nothing about bending and breaking the rules. today you say that pesco doesn’t impact on our neutrality. in the past you said what you said on the banks but you betrayed us. you will attempt to betray us on a neutrality but you will not succeed. you will not get away it. taoiseach, the future of europe, as currently envisioned, is a full federal united states. that is not what we envisioned or looked at when we joined what was a community. you do not have a mandate for what you ask for. listen to the people.
mr president, welcome, taoiseach, to the parliament. there are many voices and views, as you have already heard. i am responsible for dialogue with national parliaments, and this is something that we need to do better. what are your thoughts about how the european parliament and national parliaments operate, and would you have any guidance or advice for us? i have to say you have set a high standard for those who come after you, and that is excellent, not just because you are irish but because it is an important debate. you were disarmingly honest in relation to climate and the actions in ireland, and we hope and want to make progress. you were equally frank about where taxation needs to be dealt with, and that is at the oecd level. mr president, you are also to be congratulated for this initiative. it is a good start to our work here in january that we have the opportunity to have an open and frank debate with the leader of my country, an taoiseach, leo varadkar, and that that process will continue. so let’s make it beneficial.
madam president, given the disproportionate impact of austerity and recession on youth, it is essential that this youth employment initiative is properly implemented. i welcome that this report highlights both the positive and the negative aspects of the implementation of the scheme so far. while much is to be said for the positive impact of the initiative – helping to fight against social exclusion, poverty and emigration among the youngest sectors of society – there are significant concerns that the full potential of the scheme is not being realised. inappropriate usage of funds and member states using it to replace funding from national governments has resulted in the waste of possibly life-changing funds for young men and women throughout the eu. some member states including my own, ireland, excluded single parents and young people with disabilities from the initiative. we must also ensure that there is proper engagement with trade unions to ensure that young people are not being exploited in the jobs and the training that they are being offered and that those internships are not just displacing real jobs.
madam president, excuse me, i didn’t hear how much time i have. sorry. thank you. i shall be quick then. i would just like to say that in 2002, ireland introduced a plastic bag levy and there was an immediate 90% reduction in the use of plastic bags. so member states can do things themselves. that’s the good news. the bad news is that my country is one of the largest producers of plastic waste in the european union, so we’ve got a lot of work to do. we need to talk about china and its decision not to take our dirty plastic anymore. i’ve tried to find out from the industry where it is going to go. i wonder, do the commissioners know? this is an immediate and real problem for us. it seems to me that we’re moving from landfills to sea fills, and that’s really serious because of the impact on our ecosystems. therefore, this strategy is vital, and i thank both commissioners for being here this evening to present it. it has got to work. we have an immediate concern around illegal dumping, i took a walk in the countryside at the weekend and i was disgusted with what i saw around me. a french colleague saw my pictures on twitter and shared her experiences, so we need to tackle that in the member states. there is one area where we are encouraging people to use the internet to buy goods and services. however, when it comes to buying products, we all know that the amount of packaging that comes through our post, or otherwise, with internet sales is enormous, and we are not talking about it. my young children buy things on the internet and i have more waste as a result. this is something we’ve got to talk about and deal with, or the mountains will rise.
mr president, it is 2018 and here within the eu we have humans being trafficked for sexual and labour exploitation: human slaves, with women and children making up the vast majority of those trafficked. at a time when the movement against the sexual exploitation of women is at its zenith we cannot forget those women and girls who are most vulnerable. nor is it acceptable that human trafficking for the purpose of labour exploitation is on the rise. it is imperative that the eu take action to stop this cruel and inhumane practice. perpetrators must be brought to justice and member states must cooperate to name, shame and penalise those companies which are using labour from trafficked humans. member states must comply fully with the human trafficking directive, the victims’ rights directive and the seasonal workers directive, and we must collect disaggregated data so that we can fully know the extent of the horror, and then move to eradicate human slavery once and for all.
i would like to make one announcement. i want to inform the house that yesterday the ethiopian authorities freed the opposition leader merera gudina after more than a year in detention. dr gudina was arrested in november 2016 at addis ababa airport after he flew in from brussels where he had attended a meeting in the european parliament. in its previous resolutions parliament had called for the release of dr gudina, so we therefore wholeheartedly welcome this decision. this house will always be strongly committed to the defence of human rights.
the next item is the report by nicola danti, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of directive 2005/36/ec as regards regulation and the need for reform in professional services (2017/2073(ini)) (a8—0401/2017).
madam troszczynski, for two minutes. mr agnew, you are in remarkably good form this morning. i am happy to see that, it brightens up the chamber; not something we normally see from that side of the house, if i may boldly say.
mr szejnfeld, exceptionally you have speaking time now, but you did want to ask a question of ms james. because we are all in great humour this morning in the chamber i am going to allow you to ask your question before you speak. ms james, if you accept of course.
mr szejnfeld, there’s your answer, but perhaps you could incorporate the comments into your speech, which is now for one-and-a-half minutes.
madam president, common interests such as the protection of the environment, consumer protection and public health are safeguarded by rules and regulations for professions, demanding specific professional qualifications to practice an activity. however, because these rules are not harmonised at eu level, their standards vary between member states. the role played by the professions is a vital component of the european economy, upholding our common objectives. unfortunately, as commissioner vella pointed out, this area is underperforming. the professional qualifications directive is important as it upholds the fundamental eu right to the free movement of labour by enabling the free movement of professionals. it sets out the rules for automatic recognition for a number of professions, based on harmonised minimum training requirements, a general system for the recognition of professional qualifications, a system for the automatic recognition of professional experience, and a system of cross-border provision of services in the context of regulated professions. in 2013, we introduced article 59 of this directive, which provides for transparency and a mutual evaluation exercise for all regulated professions in member states, whether they are regulated on the basis of national rules or are harmonised at eu level. unfortunately, not all the provisions of article 59 have yet been fully implemented by member states, even after the passing of the deadline. this is something that needs to be rectified because if we, as individual politicians, miss deadlines, we will probably be named and shamed, and possibly fined and penalised, yet some of these member states can get away with applying different rules to us. i think it is time for action. this is a good proposal by mr danti and commissioner vella.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on nigeria (2018/2513(rsp)).
mr coburn, you are close enough to catch my eye and to indicate that you are way over time. catch-the-eye procedure
the european parliament and the council this is not the first time we've talked about phoblacht dhaonlathach an chongó and it's probably not the last time either. personally, i am deeply concerned at the worsening security situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and i condemn all acts of violence. the evidence from human rights organizations of violence perpetrated on women and children by the congolese security forces and government-backed militias is overwhelming. when you don't have elections, as happened last year the elections in 2017 were postponed it is hard to get progress, so i strongly urge the congolese government to hold presidential elections on 23 december 2018, and i also urge it to align any bills with the consolidation of international human rights standards, and to establish an electoral timetable in order to ensure progress and the support of the european union. i welcome investigations into the attacks on unesco troops which left 15 peacekeepers dead, and i urge the eu and its member states to make human rights values a priority in finding a solution to the conflict in the drc, and also, from a humanitarian point of view, to deal with the outbreak of the cholera epidemic there.
the president, dar ndóigh voted me in favour of the report and i think it is good that work has been done, especially by a mr anderson. however, there are far more people who are not in education than those who are not, and there are only 50 000 of them. it is estimated that 30 000 000 of them are not in education in the eu, but only between 7% and 20% of them have access to books. therefore, it is of the utmost importance that we give them the opportunity to read books that have been translated into other languages. i would also like to welcome the many changes that my country has made in the union, in relation to people who have lost their lives.
the president, who voted against the report, gave his support to ms romana tomc, the epp group's chairwoman, who was also a member. but of course, it is an un-authorized person who is subject to laws that restrict economic activity and who himself is subject to immigration laws. they went to canada, they went to australia, my son himself included; but now it's better to take a story from scéim fostaíochta in the united kingdom and give it to a realtor. as our taoiseach leo varadkar said yesterday, it is in the young people's interest to come to ireland again and to meet them. in addition to other areas of the union, the eu has set itself the task of providing support to those affected by the crisis in europe, in particular those areas where there is a threat to their lives. it's right that we do everything we can to bring the chuile dhuine.
mr president, this, in many respects, is extraordinary. here we have a situation where we have an international agreement going all the way back to 1920, where fishing boats from the european union are entitled to equal access to the svalbard fishing resources and they are being denied it. and it seems that we cannot or will not do anything about it. this just isn’t acceptable, especially with a country like norway, which while not being in the european union has all the benefits, as such, of the european union. you would, therefore, imagine it would be obliged to uphold the rules and laws, especially in relation to a treaty that, as i said, goes back to 1920. if another country decided something else: let’s say within the european union, if a country said: ‘we don’t believe in the free movement of people, we’re not going to do it’, our legal advice is that this shouldn’t be the case, and yet they just continue on. this is where i agree with my colleagues jarosław and mr mato, that the european commission has to be stronger in this. it is not their fault. it is norway’s fault, but we have to look to them to solve the problem. and, with respect to the commissioner saying that norway is unlikely to change in the future, and therefore the 20 vessels that mr mato spoke about should really not bother going up there, because they could be, like the latvian vessel, senator, arrested, ordered to pay a seizure fine of eur 100 000 and fined afterwards. so that is your advice to them? who stands for these people? these are people who want to have a livelihood. snow crab fishing is their livelihood, and we are saying ‘oh, we’re the powerful european union which represents 500 million people’, but when a little country like norway won’t comply with us so our advice to you is ‘sorry lads, wait until norway changes its mind’. this is ridiculous and i think that there must be some way outside of the confines of commissioner vella’s portfolio to broaden this issue, and to say to norway ‘you have benefits in the european union, now if you don’t comply with this agreement, we’re going to have to look at those’. that is the only way, because if we wait for them to change their mind, as the commissioner said, we will be disappointed: they’re as happy as larry now because they have what they want. our boats will not go there. we tell them not to go there because norway won’t accept it, and that’s just what norway wants. so either we decide to do something about it or we stop talking about it. one or the other. i’m not blaming commissioner vella; we should be supporting him and using all the powers of the european union to get this solved, because the european union is about everybody, big and small. the fishermen here are the small, and the big must come to their aid. that’s what i want to see happening.
mr president, i welcome the report by my colleagues and thank them for that report, and welcome president draghi to the european parliament. when one looks back at the last 10 years, significant progress has been made in getting the eurozone economy to a much better place. we look at the job numbers, we look at gdp growth, especially in the last three years, and we look at the emerging investment which is taking place. getting inflation close to 2% is not just important in terms of reflating the eurozone economy, but it is also important in helping to reduce debt piles, which are very significant in countries that went through a bailout programme such as my own, so i recognise that progress. i also recognise the very significant impact that you have made, president draghi, in terms of the bond-buying exercise that you directed with the governing council, and that sends out a strong message of trying to reflate the economy at a time when we needed funding. we recognise that it will come to an end at some point, it will be tapered, but i think there are issues still, and i have raised them before, surrounding how much each member state is asked to give in terms of the national outstanding amount. my issue is to ask you once again to continue a dialogue with policymakers and member states, and especially go to member state parliaments. i hope you will have an opportunity to visit the irish oireachtas and possibly the finance committee between now and the end of your mandate in october 2019. i think that sends out the right signal to member states, to national parliaments, to have an engagement with the president of the ecb so that those member state policymakers are aware of the objectives for our currency. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i want to thank my colleague for a very good question. i believe that the issue of the appointment of ecb board members must obviously concern the question of technical competence and technical performance, but also the question of accountability. it is obviously open for all member states to put forward various candidates, that are then to be considered by the eurogroup and ultimately by the council, and indeed by this parliament in our deliberations. i am not going to preclude anyone, but i am simply saying that it is important that that question of objectivity, independence and technical competence are the key characteristics for us all to consider before a decision is made.
mr president, yes, i understand the outrage and i agree completely with colleagues who have expressed it, especially when this is coming from what we deemed very reputable companies – like volkswagen, with a worldwide reputation – and the practices have been rather shocking and there is certainly a need to bring them to order and ensure it does not happen again. i think it is probably too easy to say the commission is to blame – it can only do so much – but i think what we have to do now is ensure that we learn lessons from what has happened and collectively come up with a solution. because with more emphasis being put now on decarbonising transport, more research will be required but it has to be done in a very moralistic way, whether that involves animals, humans or anything else.
madam president, i think it is wonderful to behold the amount of meps from across the political floor who are working so hard so that we can put policies in place to meet our commitments on the paris agreement. last month we had the clean energy package, energy efficiency and renewable energy, and tonight the ets. i think that wonderful work has been done here. it is a very difficult file and i would like to thank everybody involved in moving towards the innovation fund, carbon capture and storage, limiting especially carbon leakage. one area where i would especially like to thank my colleague, esther de lange, is where i badgered her about prodcom, which was very important for the agri—food sector in ireland. as a result of the work by esther, ivo and others, it saves them about eur 40 million because the original proposal was so impractical. so that shows you the hard work that goes on behind the scenes and i think everybody can take a bow.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i welcome this report by my very good colleague jerzy buzek. i think that it sends an important signal that we, as a parliament, want to see more support for energy innovation and that we recognise the vital need for this to happen if we are to meet our 2030 targets. we have traditionally been at the forefront, as commissioner moedas has pointed out, but we need to do more because other areas of the world are catching up. for instance, china spent usd 44 billion on investment in clean energy projects in 2017, up from usd 32 billion in 2016. so, while we can be happy with ourselves, the rest of the world is probably moving quicker. therefore, i really agree with mr buzek when he calls for an increased budget for fp9. horizon 2020 did not make enough funds available. we also need to look at ensuring that those funds are easily available. as jerzy buzek pointed out, we have too many financial instruments and in some of the seminars, etc., that i have held in my own constituency, the point was made to me several times that applying for funds is too complicated. there are too many streams and they need to be coordinated and simplified. i think if we do that in terms of renewable energy, for which i was rapporteur for the epp, we can reach, and maybe surpass, our 35% target.
madam president, this is a very important issue for us, with the commission currently undertaking a regulatory fitness and performance refit on the motor insurance directive. as a result of the ecj’s vnuk judgment, chaos could be caused for the insurance industry in the fields of motorsport, children’s motorised toys and lawn mowers, as they could all be compelled to take out very costly insurance. this is a very important point and this is what sometimes happens when judgments are given on a particular case, leading to unintended consequences. the commission is close to coming forward with a very sensible suggestion, which is option 3 of their proposals. i am asking the commissioner to bring forward option 3 as his favoured solution, because i think the vast majority in the industry would see this as the best way of dealing with the unintended consequences of the vnuk judgment.
mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister plenković. as a country on europe’s eastern border, it is regrettable that croatia has played a role in the creation of ‘fortress europe’. ‘fortress europe’ has no place in our future and we cannot sit in a brussels bubble, surrounded by sea and barbed wire, while those fleeing war and discrimination are turned away and forcibly returned to turkey, libya and serbia, or worse still, left to die in our seas. the future of europe should also not include a europe where minority populations continue to face persistent discrimination. populations like the roma and traveller communities are not treated equally in my own country, ireland, or in yours, mr plenković. the future of europe should also be rooted in its history. the eu was established as a peace project but it is now paving a future for itself in militarisation and the war alliance of permanent structured cooperation on security and defence. a militarised europe will create a future with more insecurity, more wars and more money for war, at the expense of the social protections that europe once treasured.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his fine speech a month after our own prime minister, leo varadkar, was here. it was great to have two big men representing two small countries as prime ministers here in parliament. you as babes of the european parliament, we as veterans. both equally important and committed. you spoke a lot about security; i just have a quick question for you. you mentioned about building an lng terminal; i want to ask you how important that is in the security supply for your country. was there opposition to it or full support for it, and what is the cost to the state? keep up the good work.
i was pleased to be present and to take part in the debate on the night before yesterday. and everyone was encouraged by a wonderful response from róża thun and by the partnership with her to improve the way the commission works. the eu has a digital single market, which is not yet in place. currently, according to the report, 63% of websites are blocking customers not to use other services. in the united kingdom, 15% of shoppers do online shopping across the border. and now, you will end the sin. industry in ireland will be more certain about the laws and customers will not have to buy, they will not have to buy, they will not have to read to do so. thank you. thank you.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission, on zero tolerance of female genital mutilation (fgm), by vilija blinkevičiūtė on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (o—000003/2018 – b8—0005/2018) (2017/2936(rsp)).
commissioner, thank you for putting real people behind those statistics. i think that is very important in this debate.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 7 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the decision adopted on the eu enlargement strategy – western balkans (2018/2517(rsp)).
mr president, i think we should actually acknowledge that today is a sad day for the european parliament. i want to say on the record that i, for one, will miss the constructive engagement with many colleagues from the united kingdom, who are in the ecr group, the s&d group, the alde group and the greens. we will miss their efforts to do good by the european union and we should acknowledge that today. mr etheridge, i am not so sure i will weep tears for your departure. it may well be the opposite. but let me say something much more directly to you, as you have stayed in the chamber. you were questioning how members from one member state could talk for citizens in another country. well, if we did not have the support in ireland from colleagues across this house on the northern ireland hard border issue, we would be in a difficult place. you were not thinking of the possibility of a hard border when you voted and pushed for brexit. we needed the support of members of this house from all member states – not ukip. you are creating problems for my country. let me be calm again. i welcome that we will get two extra seats for ireland in the redistribution of seats. on transnational lists, i have listened to this debate and my god it is passionate on either side. my taoiseach last month supported the transnational list and perhaps it comes down to this: it is a concept, but maybe it is not of its time now. however, mr etheridge, i like the idea that colleagues from one country will speak up for citizens in other member states. (applause)
madam president, when brexit occurred and we started discussing the redistribution of seats, i felt we were moving a bit hastily. this was confirmed for me a month ago when both donald tusk and jean-claude juncker said that the door was open for the british to change their minds. but if they change their minds, their seats will have gone – thankfully not all, but some – and i welcome ireland being given two extra seats because of its growing population, etcetera. so, what do we do? in relation to the transnational lists, many people, our taoiseach included, have outlined many good reasons why we should consider them but, as othmar karas said, this is theoretical at this stage. before the theory can become practice, we have to see how, in practice, these elite meps would operate. will they be elected by everybody and accountable to no one? that needs to be answered before theory becomes practice.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by esteban gonzález pons, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission (n8—0065/2017 – c8-0366/2017 – 2017/2233(aci)) (a8-0006/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. colleagues, the sitting is now suspended briefly, but i would remind you that today, before the votes, we will listen to an address by a representative of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons (ican), nobel peace prize winners of last year. (from 11.47 to 12.18, members gathered for the address by a representative of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons (ican), 2017 nobel peace prize winner)
madam president, two days ago in this parliament, mr draghi told us that the european economy had grown by 2.5% last year – his predictions were for 1.5%. we know that many of our domestic economies are growing and about the challenges to harness and to channel that growth where it can be effective, but have evidence that jobs as we know them are changing, the labour market is changing and the typical permanent pensionable job is no longer there for many. there is evidence of temporary, part—time working on a contract basis, flexible labour market and, of course, with automation, robots and globalisation, employment as we know it is changing. so we need to ensure that we have strong and effective protection measures in place for workers. minimum income is important and tackling zero—hours contracts is very, very important to give some certainty to workers. but it is not all about inequality in terms of income. it is also about inequality in terms of opportunity, and inequality in terms of outcomes as well. we continually need to focus on skills and education and ensure that our young people, in particular, have the necessary training, the necessary education opportunities, if we are to provide them with the skills that employers are articulating today that they do not have and cannot find on the labour market. some european countries have better outcomes than others, and we must work together to ensure that those differences are addressed. the forthcoming european social pillar is one way that we can tackle those inequalities in a european way.
madam president, today we have heard the headline figures on the wealth divide, but i want to look at some of the underlying figures. two points: employment is increasing, but the number of people working full—time in 2017 is lower than in 2008 and the number of people working part—time in 2017 is 11.9 % higher than in 2008. we also have a rise in bogus self—employment with many workers having no security whatsoever. therefore, commissioner, i anticipate your proposal on social fairness and hope it will deliver, regardless of the sector. secondly, intergenerational fairness. youth employment levels are almost twice the average unemployment levels, but even more worrying is the fact that since 2007 younger workers are significantly losing income share as opposed to older workers, and this is increasing year on year. that is an unexploded bomb in our midst.
mr president, i come from ireland, which had great difficulty in adapting from being colonised and then becoming independent – in fact, we had a civil war. romania is trying to come from a time when it was under the control of the ussr, so i can understand a certain amount of friction and ups and downs, etcetera, but nevertheless, it was deemed to be advanced enough to join the european union, which has a very clear set of values. if we feel that those values have been breached in any way, it is only right, firstly, that we should discuss it here in the european parliament, and secondly, that there should be some type of sanction if an independent analysis shows that that is the case. certainly, there have been grave doubts expressed here – and rightly so – about the transparency, the failure to deal with corruption in romania and especially the independence of the judiciary. these are things we cannot ignore. it’s probably a bit simplistic to blame the commission for not doing more. maybe it should do more, but also i think we have to look at the tools in terms of: if there are certain breaches, what sanctions kick in? it is understandable to say that you shouldn’t blame the people or penalise the people, but how do you actually penalise the government without penalising the people? nobody has answered that. there is need for clarity on this. there is need for sanctions, as we go forward, and there is definitely a need to ensure that no country is allowed to have the lack of transparency, the corruption and the challenges to the independence of the judiciary that we are seeing in romania.
mr president, thank you and thanks for this debate. i’ve just come from a meeting of our group where i will be discussing the next mff and the various funding mechanisms which will apply, areas where there will be increases, areas where there will probably be cuts – you name it. the key point is that we use the funds we get wisely, and there are certain areas where the european union has a moral obligation to ensure that we look at the external actions that we can help with. especially now, i think that, unfortunately, donald trump’s america has kind of retreated into isolationism, so the world needs the european union to give leadership, to put the rule of law first and to try and encourage progress all over the world. we are renowned as the best funder for humanitarian development aid and that makes sense, but also we have to work hard to ensure that when there are areas of conflict, et cetera, that we can do something to bring the situation under control and to stimulate progress for people, because whether people are in the european union or outside of the european union, i think we have a great opportunity to help them and funding is key to that.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, is baolach nach kannom support the laws and regulations that are currently in place, but i think that the eib's role is going to be important in relation to public investment in the european union, and i think that it is going to be very effective. i have had a lot of money from the eu budget going to the eib, and i am responsible for these laws, and i have been told that a lot of the power that was in the eu budget is now going to the eib. we have made it possible to apply the eu's laws to the eib, to the juncker plan, to the infrastructure, to research and to the environment. where is the third arch? where is the dianscrudo? where are the processes of daonlathach? where are the citizens? citizens are relying on us to teach them how to ensure that their investment is in line with the laws they are obeying. those who want to buy, those who want to pay, those who want to buy, those who want to buy. the opportunity to make a major investment in bhutan is one of the reasons the eib is committed to making its citizens happy. and after years and years, i've been thinking about teaching you how to trade in a certain kind of a similar kind of a product, and i've been thinking about how to get it out of the country, and i've been thinking about how to get it out of the country.
mr president, active civil society is vital to the functioning of any healthy democracy. ngos, human rights organisations, critical media and trade unions all work to hold governments to account, to protect people’s rights and to protect transparency. but we are increasingly witnessing a shrinking civil society – not just in third countries, but within the eu itself. i was an eyewitness to the police brutality that was meted out on catalans as they attempted to exercise their right to vote, not to mention the arrest and imprisonment of civil activists or the shutting—down of their websites. other eu countries are using government—funded smear campaigns and restrictive legislation to shut down organisations campaigning for fundamental rights. in my own country, peaceful protesters were consistently demonised by the government and, in one case, criminalised for their actions. civil society needs our protection. we cannot tolerate its shrinkage within the eu, but nor can we continue to provide funding to countries with oppressive regimes that shut down any form of civil society just because they are carrying out the dirty work of fortress europe.
in writing. – in 2015, oxfam recorded that at least 31 women activists were murdered because they were standing up for human rights. women’s rights defenders not only face violence from state actors, but also from within their own movements, their communities and members of their own families. this is because women defenders are defying what it means to be a woman in society, simply by stepping into the public space. even though, in theory, the eu guidelines on this issue refer to gender perspectives, it is deeply disappointing that the european commission is still not providing any information as to whether it consults women human rights defenders, and therefore whether they take into account the gender factors to any great extent and whether they are addressing any gender specific needs. at the moment, the majority of funding programmes put in place to support human rights defenders are not aimed specifically at supporting women human rights defenders. we need to make sure this changes.
madam president, it was worth getting up early for this debate because i have learned about banana flies and all sorts of very interesting things that i really did not know about. this is an issue that people are interested in. i have got volumes of comments, so let me read you a few. tommy donnelly: ‘we tried this before, about 40 years ago, to change. before we start, maybe someone should discover why this change was discarded. if it was not practical then, it may not be practical now’. on the other hand, patrick brennan: ‘yes, please change this ridiculous change. it would be most welcome in industry such as pharma, especially where standalone instrumentation might be used and which might not be synchronised to a network clock. one less nuisance and data integrity headache. then ríona meehan: ‘we are divided in this house. my husband, a farmer, wants the time to continue to change for winter and summer. on the other hand, i do not want my children coming home in the dark and going to school in the dark’. so, i was going to suggest maybe a referendum but we might get a very close result, and that might be dangerous. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think this is a very balanced resolution. it recognises the difficulties egypt has, especially in relation to ruthless terrorist attacks, where we saw recently attacks on the coptic orthodox cathedral and a mosque in north sinai killing hundreds and hundreds of people. so in some respects, it may be understandable that the authorities would be over anxious and overreact. nevertheless, it’s not acceptable when you have mass trials, hundreds of crimes eligible for the death penalty, people being kept in prison for a long time before their trial comes up – and of course all of this is in breach of the international covenant on political and civil rights, especially article 14. so it is right we should encourage the egyptians to look at this and to have a moratorium for the death penalty with a view to abolition, while at the same time standing with the egyptian people in both having trade with them and in the fight against terrorism.
madam president, again we are discussing human rights in egypt. today we rightly condemn not only the use of the death penalty in egypt but its escalation under president sisi. the egyptian judicial system has many flaws. the young irishman, ibrahim halawa, can testify to that. between 26 december and 30 january, 26 people were executed, 24 of whom were sentenced by military courts using confessions extracted through torture. even more disturbing, the lawyers of those executed were not notified in time to lodge appeals, the families of those hanged were not permitted to say goodbye, and many now are still trying to find out how they can reclaim their relative’s body. it is not good enough that we come here and condemn egypt. we need action. egypt has human rights obligations under its eu-egypt association agreement and president sisi’s crack-down on all forms of civil society is undermining stability not increasing it. egyptian civilians are looking for us to speak up, because they can’t.
madam president, i reiterate the calls for the european union to contribute as best as it can to the haitian government’s efforts to improve the extremely troubling living conditions of children in haiti. it is crucial to protect vulnerable minors from abuse and to have more community values that foster a stable and safe environment for children. i welcome the call for effective mechanisms in haiti to establish protection for children who may fall victim to abuse and child labour as a result of the restavek system, whereby hundreds and thousands of children are sent to families other than their own. most of them don’t go to primary school. one in four girls and one in five boys become victims of sexual abuse before 18 years of age, and 85% of children are subject to violent discipline. this is a result of the social norms that exist there, and i think that we must work hard to ensure that those social norms are cast aside. i also agree that we should be increasing, not decreasing, humanitarian development aid to haiti.
i'm not going to tell you, i'm not going to tell you. it is an important partner of the european union and turkey is keen to maintain its high standards of living. i'm glad we have the tuirc ball of air and the freedom of the people, the journalists, the journalists in the human heart, the lawyers, the representatives of the civil society and the women who study and write in prison. i've been told about an evil plan to kill the prisoners and i'm going to have to make a decision. i don't think that's true. i think that's what happened. if turkey does not join soon, it will not be able to join the eu, nor will the eu be able to speak with its citizens about their desire to join the eu. i hope that will change soon in turkey.
mr president, as the only irish member on the ad hoc committee which has been looking at clock change for a couple of years now, i want, on behalf of my country, to thank parliament firstly for putting this into the debate today, which unfortunately i couldn’t attend, because it clashed with shadows’ meetings that i had to engage in, but also for the vote that we have had here today. the vote is very conclusive. 384 voted in favour of the resolution, 153 against and 12 abstained. so now there’s a clear imperative for the european commission to take this seriously, do a thorough assessment and then, hopefully, as a result of that assessment, come forward with a legislative proposal that will – hopefully – end this biannual change, which our evidence suggests is good neither for man or beast nor for energy.
mr president, i think that some perspective is needed in this debate. while i completely agree that there is a huge need to move towards a system that is primarily based on renewable energy – and i strongly welcome parliament’s opting for ambition last month when it backed our proposal for a 35% target for renewable energy – this is a more complex issue that i feel is often overly simplified. first of all, as commissioner arias cañete pointed out, security of supply is of crucial importance, particularly in our eastern member states which have at various times in recent years actually experienced gas shortages. at the moment we still have a lot of dependency on gas, both for heating and for electricity generation. we have an obligation to push our ambitions on renewables and climate change. there is no doubt about this, but there is equally an obligation to ensure supply security to our citizens, many of whom have real concerns in this regard. at the moment, diversifying gas supply is our most effective method of doing so in many regions. secondly, the transition to renewables is moving quickly, particularly in recent years, but it is still a gradual process. fossil fuels, preferably gas rather than coal or oil, and biomass will be needed to provide the base-load generation that balances our energy system to ensure the cost effectiveness and feasibility of integrating more and more renewables. i have been at the centre of calls for increased investment, under the ninth framework programme for research and innovation (fp9), in the development and improvement of balancing and storage technologies that we hope will be able to replace fossil fuels in time for this purpose. but again, this will take time. regarding the wider debate on the inclusion of certain projects on the list of projects of common interest (pcis), that seems to have inspired this afternoon’s debate: yes, the pci list includes certain fossil projects, but these are of strategic interest to the european union. they are about ensuring supply security with interconnectors, pipelines and terminals for liquid natural gas (lng). they are about helping to improve the functioning of our markets and moving towards a single european internal market for gas and electricity. and perhaps most importantly, they are about helping to ensure affordability of energy for the consumer. so, all in all, i think that this project is worthwhile. we have to take on board concerns, but at the same time security of supply is of crucial importance and projects that secure supply for our citizens must not be disregarded. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, it’s not. obviously the views of local populations have to be taken into consideration, but just because the local population objects to something doesn’t mean the whole project should fall. they have to be properly consulted, they have to make their points known, but there is also an obligation on those who run the project to inform them of the full facts, and then people can proceed. and i think in this instance the balance would suggest that the security of supply is absolutely vital because without it the locals, communities and customers in general, will be without gas and without heating and will pay more.
mr president, every thursday in strasbourg we have urgent discussions on the abuse of human rights right round the world, and rightly so. sometimes there are sensitivities because we have a close trading relationship with some of these countries, but that should never stop us from condemning and decrying abuses of human rights. my colleague cristian preda referred to syria, the death penalty in iran, not just iran but many more countries as well. we have to constantly try and bring these countries along the path of respecting the human rights of all. the united nations has been mentioned, and the veto. i suppose the best example, in some respects, of the ineffectiveness of the international community is when we learn that 100 girls were taken by boko haram and there is little we seem to be able to do about it. we haven’t made much progress, in that sense, if such a thing can happen and the international community can do little about it.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this file. it may be a technical file, but we do have a duty as elected representatives to protect citizens and their health. i am fully aware that the spirits drinks industry is due to present a self—regulatory proposal for nutritional information, but it is because of this, rather than in spite of this, that i am proposing the two amendments to include the nutritional declarations on spirit drinks and allow for other voluntary nutritional information on the labelling. any sort of self—regulating proposal will not suffice when it comes to providing citizens with clear information on the products that they buy, and we have an opportunity now to fulfil that. consumers’ rights to information should prevail over business interests. the commission’s report in this matter from march last year identified a knowledge deficit for consumers regarding nutritional information on alcoholic beverages. it also found that there were no grounds to exempt spirit drinks from the food information to consumers regulation and identified a clear desire among consumers for this information. i would also echo the calls of my colleagues to reject the use of beer alcohol in the production of spirit drinks.
mr president, as one who’s off all alcohol for lent, i can’t claim to be in high spirits as we discuss these spirits files, but it was a pleasure for me to work on this file on behalf of the ppe/inta with pilar ayuso, nicola danti and others. as commissioner hogan has pointed out, the commission’s proposal was put forward to align eu legislation on spirit drinks with the lisbon treaty. in addition, it was supposed to contain minor technical adjustments and replace the existing procedures for the management of geographical indications in the spirit drinks sector with new procedures modelled on the more exhaustive and well tested procedures for agricultural products and foodstuffs. pilar ayuso and her team have done great work on this legislation. it is not easy to satisfy all member states, and the work is ongoing, as the commissioner pointed out. ireland was satisfied with regulation 110/2008, and in general did not expect or see the need for a wide ranging discussion on, or reinterpretation of, the spirits regulation that this realignment exercise has turned into. there are a few issues that affect my own country of ireland, and these would need to be discussed further, such as the system of aging or the issue of article 8.5 and flavouring, among others. i hope that the trilogues will be able to sort these out to everybody’s satisfaction. finally, in my country a few years ago there were only four distilleries; now there are 18. this indicates the growth in exports for these wonderful products. i know that commissioner hogan has done tremendous work, especially in the asean countries, to grow agricultural exports in spirits and others as well.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, unfortunately there are not that many members around, but perhaps there are more important issues on their agendas. nevertheless, thank you very much for your kind invitation to participate in this very interesting, timely and important debate. i am glad to have a chance to discuss transparency practices in the eu institutions with you, to tell you about my rendezvous with my friend and former commission president, mr barroso, and also to correct some unintentional – and also some intentional – misperceptions concerning the meetings. i did not think that the glass of beer i had with mr barroso would merit such attention, but i think it is good to clarify what this commission does to meet the highest standards of transparency in general and, in particular, how we decided to deal with meetings with mr barroso after he accepted the position with goldman sachs. this commission took a very clear commitment from the very beginning to be transparent vis-à-vis european citizens and its actions. it is very important for this commission and very important for me. this is why i have always paid great attention to the transparency of my meetings, and you can consult this on my website. the european commission as a whole is fully committed to enhancing transparency across all areas of its work. upon taking office, the juncker commission decided first to limit meetings between commissioners, their cabinets, the commission directors-general, to organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in eu policy and policy implementation who are registered in the transparency register. secondly, and at the same time, the commission took a specific decision in november 2014 obliging its members to publish these meetings. unfortunately, the same level of transparency does not occur in all the eu institutions. the commission is the most transparent institution in the eu. now to the particular case of my meeting with mr barroso on 25 october 2017. when mr barroso accepted the position with goldman sachs, president juncker decided, and announced, that he would be received in the commission in the future as a representative of an organisation. this is why a meeting with mr barroso always needs to be registered, and this is exactly what i did. i told my cabinet to publish the meeting on my website, in the section dedicated to meetings with organisations and self-employed individuals engaged in eu policy-making and policy implementation. the commission decision of november 2014 provides for the publication of the name of the organisation, not of the names of individual persons representing the organisation. this is why i published the meeting with goldman sachs. some of you are interested in details of the meeting, so i am happy to clarify this. the meeting was set up at mr barroso’s request, in his personal capacity and not as a representative of the organisation. it was arranged over the phone by my office. i met him in the bar of the silken berlaymont hotel for a beer. mr barroso and i were the only persons present at this meeting. i consider josé manuel barroso as a friend. i worked a lot with him when he was the president of the european commission and i was the finance minister and prime minister of my country at the time. we worked together through one of the most difficult periods in europe’s recent history, during the economic and financial crisis. for about four months i was vice-president in this commission in 2014, during his second mandate. in spring 2016, before he accepted a position with goldman sachs, i visited the united states. during my visit i spoke at the university of princeton, where mr barroso was a lecturer and held a faculty, and he was kind enough to organise the event with the students to discuss europe. mr barroso and i were also, at the same time, on a panel at the atlantic council event during my visit. when he proposed we have a cup of coffee, i suggested going for a beer instead. my office took care of setting up the time and place of the meeting. if he had not contacted me, i would have contacted him, because i had already been thinking for a long time that it would be nice to see him again. when we met it was me doing most of the talking. i told him about our ambitious trade and defence agenda. he is a lecturing professor, travelling a lot and meeting world leaders, so i thought it would be useful for him to know that europe is on the move again. i hoped he would spread the word. i also spoke to him about the ‘future of europe’ discussion, which many of you are familiar with. of course, we discussed politics, life and personal matters, as many people do when they are sitting with a friend. our meeting respected in full the rules the commission has adopted. the commission has never said that mr barroso could not have meetings with members of the commission and that members of the commission would not be allowed to have meetings with him. the meeting took place in public, according to the rules and the commitment taken by president juncker. had i not made this meeting public, i could understand questions being asked, but do not criticise the commission for having made the meeting public, because this is a request we are imposing on ourselves. we all have a right to have a private life and we all have a right to select our friends. i could not imagine myself politicising other people’s friendships. the ngos which had questions have received answers from the european commission, and those who still have questions will also get answers. it is in this spirit of transparency that i am discussing here with you today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, i believe in listening to both sides of the story, but any explanation must have real credibility. first, your meeting is logged in the register as a meeting with goldman sachs, yet you said it was a meeting between friends. you say that mr juncker said that it is a rule that any meeting with mr barroso has to be logged, so why not by name? secondly, we have the sorry saga of barroso’s hasty exit from the commission to goldman sachs, a company that carries at least some responsibility for the crash where millions of eu citizens’ lives were damaged or destroyed. you cannot ignore that fact. at any meeting logged in the transparency register, you are a commissioner first and a friend of barroso second. the golden circle of powerful interests and powerful people meeting with no account of proceedings does not have the confidence of eu citizens. no matter how you explain it, your meeting with barroso falls into that category.
madam president, tonight in ireland there are 9 000 homeless people, thousands more are on housing waiting lists, and for a whole generation home ownership is an aspiration they will never realise. fianna fáil and fine gael governments have failed them, but they’ve never failed the banks. a decade ago, ptsb was bailed out with eur 3 billion in irish taxpayers’ money. today that bank is planning to sell off 14 000 family homes with distressed mortgages to vulture funds, and other banks are following suit. the vultures are gathering because people can’t repay their loans because the irish banking cartel has implemented such high mortgage rates. the vulture funds are unregulated, aggressive and vicious in the pursuit of profits. our government must rein in the banks and the vulture funds. the european central bank and the commission too, so quick to burden the irish people with 42% of europe’s bank debt, cannot ignore a crisis that they have had a hand in creating. banks should be prevented from selling distressed home mortgages to vulture funds: it’s as simple as that. for once and for all, it’s time to side with mortgage-holders and home-owners instead of banks.
mr president, congratulations to mr loones on his report. i have just three observations to make. firstly, the last pillar of banking union needs to be done. i agree with mr karas that it is how it is done, and i fully back the approach of esther de lange when she spoke to the house about the necessity of having risk-sharing and risk reduction at the same time. this has to be done in a phased way. we have made progress, and it remains to be done in terms of the last issue. my second remark is in relation to npls. it is really important that we resolve this issue, because without resolving this issue, we will stop lending to the real economy, to households, to smes, and the longer we put it off, the longer it takes for real growth and investment to occur in our economies. in my own country, we have a significant problem with npls in some of our banks, which have to be resolved. we also need a system which works within a code that the ecb have set, which is fair and equitable while at the same time recognising the necessity to resolve this issue. we do need more progress on insolvency laws across europe, more judicial guidance, and we also need a code that is in place for all member states of the eurozone.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by javier nart, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on cutting the sources of income for jihadists – targeting the financing of terrorism (2017/2203(ini)) (a8—0035/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by izaskun bilbao barandica and ángela vallina, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu priorities for the 62nd session of the un commission on the status of women (2017/2194(ini)) (a8—0022/2018).
i am aware that there are a lot of people who would like to contribute to the debate in catch the eye. however, i think that catch the eye is not possible because of the time constraints. i apologise to colleagues who would like to contribute, so please contribute in writing. i would ask those who now take the floor to adhere to their time please.
ms grapini has requested a blue card but as time is short in this debate i am afraid i am not going to be able to accept any blue cards.
commissioner jourová, you have heard from women about the status of women, so i invite you to respond.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the president, as rapporteur of the inta group, wanted to take part in the debate that had been held on this subject, which was very interesting and of course very important. the report on the morphology of sea ice is an important subject, especially as it relates to the spread of sea ice around the world. i've been dragging you into these things, especially my own, and i'm proud of you. i'm not going to vote against the alcohol being sold to you. i think we should do the same thing in the next few days, and the commission should do the same thing in the next few days.
the president voted more favourably on this report than on any other. madam president, our fundamental rights must be rigorously upheld, and this report has carried out a thorough investigation and evaluation of that. the issues of hate speech, discrimination, migration and integration are especially relevant in our society, and we must learn how to combat division and animosity through the core values of the union. i respect reports focused on protecting citizens and asylum seekers alike from violence and discrimination. we must continue to take into account the rights of minorities and communities across the eu, from ethnic groups to members of the lgbt+ community. the increased emphasis in the fight against organized crime and human trafficking is to be praised. i would also like to mention in that regard that we in the european union should be making more noise and doing more to bring attention to the appalling act of the kidnapping by boko haram of 100 girls, and we must do everything we can to get them back.
the president welcomed the vote on the report as an important report. the fact that 76% of european food production depends on bee pollination shows how integral the species is to core aspects of humanity's future. the destruction of european bee pollination by disease is of key concern. therefore, it is essential that we support, educate and train more producers and the public, and commit to researching the challenges facing bees and the beekeeping industry today. we must support current beekeepers, many of whom have faced, or are facing, shutdown in business due to fake honey or decimated bee populations, and therefore i commend the recommendations for the revision of eu support for beekeepers. i especially hope this will be an integral part of the next common agricultural policy. the trends for beekeeping within the union have been positive in recent years, and it is essential that we maintain this upward momentum in order to preserve the beekeeping sector for generations to come. our future and the future of the planet depend on it.
in writing. – our society is struggling with many unconscious biases and discriminatory norms and attitudes, in many aspects of our lives, in employment, and especially in the media sector. our failure to address gender inequality. we need to devote resources for training, and awareness-raising campaigns to promote egalitarian practices and values. action is essential to ensure that existing rules on equal treatment in employment are enforced. we must foster a cultural atmosphere in which women feel better supported to disclose their experiences, so that harassment and discrimination cases are not left unreported; harassment policies need to be clearly outlined and reach the highest possible standards of fairness, clarity, and transparency.
mr president, four billion parcels that are ordered online across the eu each year, and this has the potential to grow much more. 44% of eu consumers buy online, but only 15% order online in another country. why? because of concerns about delivery, including the high delivery tariffs. a fully functional digital single market could bring the range of around eur 415 billion to european economy. this regulation is very important, because it brings efficiency to the sector, transparency of tariffs and terminal rates, and affordable prices. it will make markets work more effectively by making regulatory oversight of the parcels market more effective and consistent. delivery operators will have to provide national regulatory authorities with appropriate data and transport of tariffs. this will all help consumer confidence, which will help the market to grow. that will help everybody, and we will complete the digital single market.
madam president, the strength of this resolution on ireland is to be welcomed. every month since the brexit referendum there has been growing support for the sinn féin proposal that the north of ireland acquire special status to prevent a hardening of the border, to protect the good friday agreement and to defend citizens’ rights. membership of the single market and the customs union for all of ireland is essential. the british government has not presented a single realistic proposal on the irish border. their position, dictated by the dup, is political lunacy that would harm unionist workers, students, businesses and farmers as much as their republican counterparts. the back-stop, while not perfect, provides some much-needed certainty. the british government actually signed up for this in december and, for once, it is time for them to honour their word. finally, the irish people have confirmed, time and time again, that they want to be part of the eu but, like citizens across europe, they want a social, progressive and democratic eu. the ongoing drive for the further militarisation of europe, including pesco, is regressive and undermines the message of solidarity and peace that should be central to this parliament’s response to brexit.
excuse me, i can see you. there is no need to wave your arms like you’re swimming. i can see you. (laughter)i think we need to reflect on this moment. it is an internal uk issue so i will allow you a point of order if it is a point of order, but i will be strict if it is not. you have been warned. thank you.
mr woolfe, are you also looking to speak?
excuse me colleagues, allow me to answer. thank you, colleagues. first of all, i chair this session totally, as chair, and i did not see your card, whatever colour it was, so you have to respect my bona fides... (interjection from mr campbell bannerman: ‘it is this colour, and your staff did, madam president ... sorry.’) thank you for the apology. i am trying to keep order in this debate, which is a very important debate for all our citizens. if you were looking for a blue card during a blue-card procedure, then i will have to ask the services what we can do in that regard. but i don’t ignore anybody. if i don’t see them myself, i hope my services do and i hope the house accepts that. you can speak when the microphone is on, sir, not when it is not, so bear with me for a moment. i take note of the comments from other colleagues. i will not allow mr smith to respond because it will simply become a very debased debate, so let us move on to our next speaker, and i will consult the services on your point.
madam president, ireland finds itself in an unenviable position, caught between two large powers, neither of whom history tells us we can trust. we were bullied for years by britain, then bullied by the eu on lisbon and nice, bullied again on bank debt. it is because of this, i believe that ireland needs a seat on michel barnier’s negotiating team. it is only in this scenario, can we get the best possible deal for ireland both north and south. we hear support from donald tusk, support from manfred weber, so they tell us, but i hope it isn’t just support because it suits them now, because we didn’t get support from you in the past. during these negotiations we’ve got to be pragmatic. we’ve got to work together. we’ve got to protect citizens' rights. we need to be positive. statements such as you ‘will regret it’ from mr juncker, i hope you mean that from the point of view of you won’t make them regret it, but you think they will regret it, because we need this to work out. i’d like to hear more positive stuff as we heard from mr gualtieri that we need to reduce the negative impact as much as possible. we need this to work. we need you all to grow up, stop fighting and support people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
just to respond to mr campbell bannerman. apparently i had given the floor to another speaker before the services saw your blue card, so let there be no doubt about my commitment to fairness in the chair, and i hope you accept that. secondly, mr flanagan, there is a blue-card request from mr rübig. will you accept it?
blue-card answer. – madam president, it will cost ireland financially and we do need support. in that context, i would ask the european union and the ecb to stop ireland borrowing and burning money that the ecb is forcing us to do. last year we borrowed eur 4 billion at the behest of the ecb and we burned it into thin air. if the eu is to prove solidarity towards ireland and that it is our friend at a time when the ecb were engaged in quantitative easing, they’ve got to stop forcing us to get involved in quantitative squeezing.
mr president, i dare say there are a few in this house that put a few bob on the horses and we should acknowledge that the cheltenham festival is today. there might be a few people there discussing brexit because actually brexit will damage the horse—racing industry because it relies on eu rules, and i dare say mr farage might be interested in that. this is a huge concern for punters, for breeders, for trainers, and we need to find a solution. can i also address prime minister theresa may directly? when she spoke in her speech about a precious union of the united kingdom, i get that. i fully understand it. but, can i say that the european union is also precious? not in the way that sometimes precious is perceived; it’s important, it’s vital, and therefore that’s why we defend it. can i say that one of the big hurdles we face, continuing the racing metaphor, is that of the border with northern ireland? jim nicholson has left the chamber, but he’s a wise man and he, in my view, is a bridge between the extremes of sinn fein and the dup. perhaps we should listen to him.
madam president, the next council has much to discuss, and discuss they will, but one area i think they need to focus very strongly on is the multiannual financial framework (mff), the next budget: europe without a good budget can be talking forever about what they would like to do, but they cannot do much about it. especially now that the united kingdom will be leaving the european union, regretfully, there will be a eur 14 billion or so deficit in the budget. i think it is incumbent on the member states to make up that deficit. after all, if they are all talking about the need to stick together to preserve what we have built, then i think also a strong budget is the key to that. i was delighted to hear our own taoiseach, leo varadkar, say here in this very chamber in january that ireland will commit itself to increasing our percentage contribution from 1% to 1.1% or 1.2%. but every other member state needs to do the same, because if we are to do the things we want to do in relation to security, erasmus, development aid, the single market, migration or climate change, it is going to take funding. it is estimated that every euro in europe generates about eur 4 in added value. this is where the added value is, but the council must give the commitment to do that now, unanimously, and then we can progress.
mr president, i’d like to bring parliament’s attention to ibrahim halawa, who is up in the viewing chamber today because in december 2015 this parliament voted for a resolution calling for his immediate release. it is great that he is here today, now a free man, who was locked up. (loud applause)
the eu, which was the first country to sign the climate change agreement, cop 21, is now the first country to sign laws in the trilogues on renewable energy and there is still much to be done in our region to achieve this goal. indeed, it has been estimated that 75% of european cities are struggling to take steps to adapt to climate change because of a lack of awareness among decision makers, lack of technical knowledge and difficulties in accessing funding. so i fully support the call on the commission to provide increased support to cities and regions in the fields of training and awareness-raising, financial guidance, communication, etc., so that together they can play a decisive role in tackling climate change. we should support them in investing in green infrastructure, mobility, public transport and smart grids to meet the targets set out the paris agreement. he left without knowing his target.
mr president, donald trump does not care about lower-income workers, their jobs, their wages or their rights. we know this from his actions in providing tax breaks for the richest, and his regular attacks on vital services such as health care. but he was elected because he exploited the genuine concerns of many working people in the united states: people who haven’t received the benefits of free trade and globalisation, who in fact have lost their jobs and their faith in politics. trump’s latest actions in imposing trade tariffs must be seen in this context. however, the european commission is playing in to his game by promoting a dangerous trade agenda. through deals such the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and mercosur, the eu will actually increase the alienation and distrust that has already surged in many member states. any honest observer will attest that this agenda is, rather than enriching everyone, actually exacerbating the race to the bottom on global labour rights and standards. if we want to respond effectively to trumpism then we need to abandon a trade agenda that will only widen inequalities in europe and across the globe.
mr president, my background is sport, and in sport we often say that you have short-term pain for long-term gain. in other words, if you train hard, you will reap the rewards in due course. but what we are seeing in the united states now is short-term gain for long-term pain. but that does not really worry donald trump. he made promises in the election and, regardless of the consequences, he wants to be able to say: ‘i promised abc, i have delivered abc’. long-term pain, short-term gain, perhaps. we have had a long relationship with the united states and we want that to continue. this week, for instance, in my own country we have our national holiday, st patrick’s day, and the united states will turn green. but there is more to the united states than donald trump. nevertheless, we cannot roll over on this one, and it is important that the commission – and i am quite sure they will – take a proportionate, mature attitude and, hopefully, the matter can be resolved.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, on behalf of our group, i would like to oppose the proposition that has been made that we should postpone this vote. and i’d like to set out the reasons why we should proceed with this vote and ask this house to confirm this nomination. if we do not proceed with this vote and give an opinion on the proposal that has come from the council, it means that the council will not be able to make the appointment and a vacancy will continue. a vacuum will establish itself within the ecb. and i don’t think any of us support that principle on the basis of the independence and the credibility of monetary policy within the ecb. i would remind colleagues on all sides that the ecb has already given an opinion on this matter. the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) has supported the nomination that is before this house today by a significant majority. we have had two hearings, one in camera and one public hearing, where the candidate has demonstrated an excellent understanding of monetary policy and also demonstrated a commitment to the european union. so it is our view that we should proceed with the vote because, if this house wants to be taken seriously, we should jealously guard all of the procedures that we have. we have followed the letter of the law. while there can always be improvements, and especially on the question of agenda – and that is a matter for member states to improve – we should proceed with this vote and do the right thing for the long-term viability of the euro project. (applause)
mr president, we’ve had strong support for the resolution today from members of this parliament – the resolution on what the future relationship between the united kingdom and europe would be. i very much welcome the fact that the situation in ireland has been underlined again in this resolution: that there should be no hard border between the north and the south in ireland, and that the good friday agreement in all its forms would be protected. we are now approaching the 20th anniversary of the good friday agreement: an agreement that was ratified by an overwhelming majority of people, both the north and south of the island. it was supervised by mr george mitchell, us envoy at the time, and indeed the european union gave it its strong support and has continued to do that. i very much welcomed the comments by the president of the commission, mr juncker, yesterday when he said europe stands with ireland on this issue, and i think that’s a very important statement, a very strong statement, and that situation needs to be protected as we move forward to the next phase of negotiations.
mr president, i too am happy to support the proposals here today as we move forward into the next round of mff. we know that, post brexit, if we are at that point, the funding will be reduced considerably, by about 12 billion, and how we are going to fill that gap. i think it is important we look at this, and i know the prime minister of my own country when he was here recently said that ireland would be willing to increase contributions to the european fund, and that is important. as a member of the committee on transport committee and tourism i had an opportunity to try and influence and put wording into the proposals here. i think transport infrastructure, particularly if we are trying to address or are trying to improve territorial cohesion and address the peripherality issue for some member states – i was speaking particularly about ireland, which post brexit will be further isolated geographically, and we need to address cooperation with third countries in this whole area of transport infrastructure.
madam president, it is clear that the current system of taxing multinational corporations isn’t working. the so-called ‘arm’s length’ principle is out of date and ineffective. but for unity in taxation to work effectively as a means to end profit shifting, it needs to be global. my main concern is that member states are being asked to transfer further powers to the commission in exchange for the promise that this new system will end the ability of multinationals to shift profits, but shortcomings in the proposal mean that this goal is unlikely to be achieved. profit shifting outside of the eu is not addressed at all and it will actually increase the incentive for multinationals to shift profits outside the eu. by creating a common tax base across the eu, the proposal will, in fact, promote a race to the bottom on tax rates because the headline rate itself will be the only measure left for member states to compete on. the irish government has signalled its concerns over this proposal and, no doubt, will continue to do so. but, at the same time, the irish government needs to act now to end the dangerous and unsustainable situation in which it actively markets the irish state as a tax avoidance hub and in which our public finances are severely over-reliant on the corporation tax receipts of a handful of multinationals. we need tax justice, we need tax fairness and we need national tax sovereignty. there is no reason why we cannot achieve all of these things.
madam president, the principle of taxation policy in trying to encourage investment and industrial policy – particularly in peripheral parts of the european union or less developed parts of the union – is an essential point that we should never lose. i recognise that there is a significant majority in this house for both of these reports, as has been the case for many, many years, but there is not a significant majority, or anywhere close to that, in the council. that is because there is a real concern among smaller member states that this proposal could lead to a hollowing out of the public tax position in those member states, and could lead to a real reduction in terms of their total tax take in favour of larger member states with big domestic populations. there has been no serious impact assessment on this proposal and we are very concerned about the way in which it could impact radically on smaller member states. we have to do more to address aggressive tax planning, and the best way of doing that is at oecd level.
madam president, commissioner, all wars are bad, be they trade wars or military wars, and we have heard enough about trade wars in the last couple of weeks. conflicts are to be avoided, as well. therefore, it is important that we discuss conflict minerals today and the effect they are having on the world. great credit is due to the members here who have taken on this responsibility, together with the commission. they have made excellent progress. i was interested in the points made by the commissioner, where she put more emphasis on the ‘carrot’ than on the ‘stick’ in relation to such matters as guidance to member states, in relation to export checks, support for smes and, especially, the online tools and financial support – which is never enough but, at the same time, is significant. she mentioned discussions with india and china to ensure that there is responsible sourcing of minerals, and she has also done a huge amount of work on free-trade agreements, on including a chapter on conflict minerals in them – and she mentioned mexico. all this is very good but i think we also need to hear a bit more about the ‘stick’.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, decarbonising the transport sector and meeting the paris agreement targets can only be achieved by aligning consumer behaviour with consumer attitudes. it is clear that consumers want the greener transport options but market barriers, and especially a lack of green infrastructure, are leaving us running on the spot. i welcome the commission’s action plan but the national policy frameworks submitted by member states are lacking in ambition. in my own country’s national action plan, i am most concerned about the infrastructure gaps in terms of charging points for electric vehicles. it is disappointing that the targets for electric recharging points in ireland’s national policy framework do not correspond with the expected number of electric vehicles in the country. the depressingly low ambitions will get us nowhere and will only set us up to fail, wedding ourselves to a future of fossil-fuel dependency. if we want effective use of investment, support is crucial in making the uptake of electric vehicles a tangible reality.
madam president, the behaviour and attitudes towards children and adults with disabilities in part of uganda is truly horrifying, as has been said. innocent children are marginalised, stigmatised, attacked and even murdered under the guise of ‘mercy killing’. what an unmerciful abuse of the word ‘mercy’! this is a clear and tragic case of extreme violation of the most fundamental human rights. human rights groups have attempted to better the situation, but have at times fallen victim to violence themselves. i urge the ugandan government to cooperate with human rights organisations, and the eu, to develop and implement education, health and social programmes that will be effective in changing attitudes towards disabilities and supporting disabled people and their families. we cannot allow these gross abuses of human rights to continue. a huge cultural change is needed in uganda and we must do all we can to bring it about.
thank you. i will forward your comments to the president of parliament.
could i just say to you that this is a disgrace. the lady is making a statement about a serious issue. please listen. (applause)
thank you, ms moody. you can hear the applause. excuse me, madam, i am going to call you. madam atkinson would you please take the floor now – with a point of order i hope.
colleagues, this is not question time or a debate. i will now move to the vote. (applause)
i have started the vote so i am going to go through this vote. mr coburn, i am going to continue this vote. i will come to you at the end. please resume your seat.
just to clarify that we voted on amendment 3, which was adopted, and therefore the original text fell. thank you for double checking.
yes we did.
could i ask for your attention for a special announcement please. members, we often forget those who work in this house. i would ask mr josé holguera to stand, please. this is his last day in strasbourg before retirement. (applause)this gentleman – because this is a gentleman, i have checked his credentials – has been in charge of the plenary minutes and has worked for parliament, mostly for plenary sittings, for 32 years. mr holguera, enjoy your break and thank you for your services. (sustained applause)
madam president, i voted in favour of this report. i welcome revision of the europass framework and the opportunity to increase transparency of skills and qualifications across europe. europass is the top european initiative for documenting skills, qualifications and professional experience. this report is a significant step in ensuring we use this framework to the best of our ability for the benefit of all eu citizens. the revision of europass brings with it many important advantages. it will allow for the inclusion of non-formal skills and newer skills such as digitalisation. development of the framework will allow citizens to use online services, such as the creation of an e—portfolio and skills assessment. dá bhrí sin, vótáil mé ina fabhar mar is tuarascáil an-mhaith í agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh léi.
madam president, i welcome this report, which aims to solidify the european union youth orchestra’s status and ensure its continuation long into the future. the european union youth orchestra has been supported by the creative europe programme in various ways in the past and it is imperative that we create a legally sound and transparent solution to ensure sustainable support for the orchestra in the long term. the orchestra has been a great way to bring musicians across the continent together. regular training is provided for young musicians and there are countless performance opportunities in festivals and tours within the eu and at international level. this is an excellent way to teach young people professionalism and provide them with the skills necessary for a career in the cultural and creative sector. the orchestra’s 3 000 alumni have gone on to work with major orchestras around the world, and i for one would love to see young irish musicians given more opportunities to showcase their talents like this. hopefully the orchestra will have an opportunity to play dóchas linn naomh pádraig on st patrick’s day. d’aontódh tú leis sin, a uachtaráin.
we did not vote on corporate social responsibility so we should not have an explanation of vote on that.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commissioner back to regional development. i would also compliment my good friend, lambert van nistelrooij, on the great work he has done in this area for many years. when he speaks, he speaks with authority and knowledge and we would be well advised to listen to him. therefore, i believe it is necessary to call on the commission to commence the performance review earlier for programmes that are ahead of schedule. in ireland, for instance, we have established many programmes with esi funding for 2014—2020. for recovering from the recession in 2008, the programme for employability, inclusion and learning, for example, has been a fantastic development in providing employment training and educational opportunities. this programmes aims to help one million people integrate into the working world and encourages a continuation of third level education, including those with disabilities and those with financial disadvantages. the programmes implemented aim for sustainable and quality employment. some examples of these programmes include training for the unemployed and springboard plus, which offer free part—time and full—time conversion courses at certificate, degree and postgraduate level. however, in order to keep on track and continue progressing, it is important that performance reviews be delivered. these programmes have been funded by esi, so i think these reviews should be made earlier than 2019 for the programmes ahead of schedule. the european regional development fund has had a significant impact in decentralising development from main cities and spreading this development into rural parts of the country by developing the southern and eastern regional operational programme and the border, midland and western regional operational programme. it is important for these programmes to be reviewed so that their strengths and weaknesses can be established and work done rather than endlessly spending eu funding without knowing if it is actually effective. so i would encourage the commission to consider commencing these performance reviews before 2019, in order to avoid a backlog, and to allow the performance reserve to be utilised effectively.
madam president, i think there is growing awareness year by year of the importance of protecting our environment. this was a slow burner at the start, but particularly after cop21 – where i had the honour of representing parliament – i think the public at large are now behind us in our efforts to improve the environment because of necessity, both in terms of health, but also in terms of biodiversity and the life we enjoy. the commission are coming forward with a whole series of packages which, taken together, will play a huge part in that regard. the commission referred to plastics financing, and also of course if we look at the clean energy package, it is all feeding into getting proper proposals that must be implemented at member state level, and i think we should be pointing the finger more at the member states who are trying to get out of their obligations, rather than at the commission.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, i welcome this report and i thank the rapporteur for her work and for incorporating the employment opinion, of which i was rapporteur. women make up 68% of media and journalism graduates, yet less than 16% of the high—level strategic positions are occupied by women. this inevitably leads to a power imbalance, and this imbalance is exacerbated by the precarious nature of media work, leaving women more vulnerable to sexual harassment in the workplace. a recent international report found that 64.8% of female media workers have experienced intimidation or abuse, and almost 32% of that abuse was perpetrated by a male boss or co—worker. media organisations need robust internal procedures to assist victims to speak out. to fundamentally reform the media sector, public and private media need to mainstream gender equality in all their content and avoid gender stereotypes and the sexual objectification of women. pay and pension gaps must be closed and media companies must implement pay transparency. it is also critical to note that women of different ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation and those with a disability face additional barriers to equality that must be addressed.
the european union can be proud of the amount we have gained from the countries we have visited in this system; we can give them money every year and we can give them money every year, and we can hope that we can give them more in the future. at the same time, the united kingdom has made a commitment to reduce its budget by eur 14 billion, not by the mff as planned. therefore, the people ag ra on the one hand should be more involved in the cap, in the national systems, in the erasmus programme and in the sea. but if the member states are willing to give more money to the union, we can do it. therefore, it is difficult to give a member state a mff.
madam president, i promise not to request a catch-the-eye in the next debate or in any other debate tonight. this topic is very important and i think our rapporteur, mr denanot, gave an excellent speech. it was balanced; he pointed out the situation, which is farcical in europe and which we have tolerated for too long: on the one hand trying to be too idealistic and on the other hand actually doing more damage. he mentioned about soya being imported: we do not want gmos, but they are gmo modified. add to that the carbon footprint of hauling soya halfway across the world. it would be far more sensible to grow it here in europe and to have the benefit for our farmers – and, indeed, as he pointed out, the added benefits in terms of nitrogen fixing and especially in renewable energy. i was rapporteur for the renewable energy file, and there was a proposal there at one stage to phase out first generation biofuels altogether. thankfully, that has been rolled back by parliament. hopefully, as mr denanot has said, we can get a sensible, practical solution and have protein crops grown here in the european union.
madam president, i think it is only recently that the public at large has become aware of the extent of pollution by plastics, both on land and at sea, and are now expecting solutions from us politicians. thankfully, we are about to do so and i am honoured to be rapporteur for the epp in the committee on fisheries (pech) in this regard. some of the statistics are truly shocking. for instance, the eu sends about half of its collected plastics waste abroad, which is a disgrace. up to 13 million tonnes of plastic waste ends up in the world’s oceans every year. the damage to marine environments is estimated to be at least eur 8 billion per year. we are totally dependent on plastics. if you go into a shop, the chances are that you will be given your goods in a plastic bag. our normal toiletries all come in plastic. children’s toys, insulation, medical devices: plastics. so we need to do something about it. we particularly need to put an end to the once-only use of plastics. they need to be recyclable, they need to be reusable and, above all, we must ensure that we eliminate plastic pollution by 2030. i look forward to playing my part in that.
madam president, recently the deeply concerning news broke that there has been a data breach at the largest news organisation in ireland: independent news and media. potentially hundreds of thousands of emails may have been compromised, and to date we know that 19 individuals were singled out for a data interrogation. included on that list were investigative journalists and lawyers who worked on one of the biggest tribunals in the history of the state. the protection of privacy for journalists is not just fundamental to how they do their work, but it is also critical to their safety, and the safety of their sources. the recently retired chairman of that media company, leslie buckley, ordered that interrogation. why would the chair of a media company order such a data interrogation, why were those specific individuals singled out and why was the tab for that interrogation picked up by a company which is based in wales? i would hazard a guess that if you draw a line between all these questions, you will find one single common denominator: denis o’brien.
madam president, i would like to say to ms morvai very directly that civil society is not the enemy. a civil society that is active and working effectively is a help and strength to democracy. this instrument is about making sure that ngos can be organised and transparent in their work with the use of public funds: that is something that we should support. i think it is also really important to talk in this chamber about values, because it seems to me that there are many, many different layers of values, but the european union stands for very important ones: democracy, the rule of law and freedoms. the ngos working in it work to those freedoms. of course they irritate governments and political parties, but that is their job and that is their function. they are also effective in making us do our job more effectively. so i welcome this initiative, commissioner, and i am looking forward to your response.
mr president, five years ago, president macron, the irish president, michael d. higgins, said the following: ‘europe is a legacy that cannot be taken for granted. citizens yearn for the language of solidarity, commitment to cohesion, for inclusive rhetoric that is appropriate for an evolving political union.’ i think you echoed those words. but we evolved through disagreement, and we will be judged by how we solve our disagreements. you heard this house; there are many voices. i might take a different view to you on taxation – i am from ireland – but i don’t want to talk about detail, i want to talk about the middle-men between citizens and the european parliament, and that is national parliamentarians. they are not always the friend of europe. some of my own colleagues do not speak about europe in a positive way. we have a job of work to do, those of us who are pro-european, to persuade our elected representatives in national parliaments that there is not a fight between the european parliament and national parliaments; there is not a power struggle; that together we can be stronger. will you join us in that fight?
mr president, i am pleased to support the report and the work of the negotiating team on the 2030 non-ets targets. it is absolutely crucial that our actions to combat climate change go hand-in-hand with maintaining the competitiveness of our key sectors in europe. thankfully, this text finds the balance that will ensure our transition to a low-carbon economy is done in a fair and just way. from an irish perspective, this legislation is important, as it gives the needed flexibilities that are crucial for countries with a high share of agricultural emissions. ireland will be allowed to cancel allowances that are earmarked for emissions from power plants and heavy industry. we can therefore choose to have less emissions in the power sector, deploy more renewable electricity instead, and then shift these emissions to the effort-sharing sectors. this will allow ireland the flexibility to ensure that emission reductions are made where it is cost-effective to do so. additionally, this text properly recognises afforestation as a mitigating strategy. ireland can now incentivise our farmers to increase their forest cover, and this will help us to meet our 2030 targets. the agricultural sector is crucial to ireland. it cannot be treated in the same way as energy and transport. this report ensures that.
madam president, as speakers have said, the situation in syria is truly catastrophic – eight years of conflict, half a million people dead, millions of refugees, and more millions, as the united nations has said, in need of humanitarian aid – and no end in sight to the conflict. some people blame the european union. the european union has given more in humanitarian development aid than anyone else – at least eur five billion – and we take in refugees, as president macron said this morning. indeed, i am looking forward to the conference which commissioner mogherini is going to have in brussels next week: i think that the european union is the only body that can actually help to bring about a resolution here. it did so with the iranian nuclear accord, and we have an obligation to ensure that we give every leadership we can to try and bring about an end to this unfortunately deadly conflict – and the sooner the better.
mr president, it’s opportune that i come straight after my good friend and colleague ms dodds. indeed, i will reference brexit, and i thank donald tusk for the very clear presentation here this morning about what is at stake – and that – as we both, i hope, desire – if there is not a solution to the irish border question, there will be no withdrawal agreement and no transition. and that – mr farage, as you look me in the eye – is a very stark proposition. i would invite those of you who have not been to the border region to join me someday and listen to the people on the ground, who are very anxious about this. no one in the european union is talking up a hard border, and i certainly do not want to cross one when i travel to donegal to visit my constituency. i hope, ms dodds, you will share that aspiration with me. on the other hand, you have to understand that, when you want to be a third country, there are consequences for it. but, tragically, in the referendum you forgot about northern ireland. europe has not forgotten and will not forget.
mr president, firstly, as brexit makes its way slowly to its inevitable deadline of 29 march 2019, i have to compliment all the major players who have taken irish concerns on board. we have heard the phrase ‘we are all irish’ on this one, and we appreciate that. but, as the deadline approaches, people in ireland are becoming more and more concerned that the commitments given will actually be upheld when the final deadline arrives, especially in relation to a seamless border, the agricultural sector – which exports 50% of its products to the united kingdom – and the haulage sector going from rosslare to fishguard, fishguard to dover, dover to calais. how are we going to maintain the present position so that there will not be major disruption? these are the practical implications of the united kingdom leaving the european union, and it will take goodwill and practicality from all sides to ensure that we can have a non-disruptive exit by the united kingdom.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by joachim zeller, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section iii – commission and executive agencies (com(2017)0365 - c8-0247/2017- 2017/2136(dec)) (a8—0137/2018),– the report by joachim zeller, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2016 commission discharge (com(2017)0365 - c8-0299/2017 - 2017/2188(dec)) (a8-0130/2018),– the report by barbara kappel, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0364 - c8-0257/2017- 2017/2146(dec)) (a8-0123/2018),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section i – european parliament (com(2017)0365 - c8-0248/2017 - 2017/2137(dec)) (a8-0105/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section ii – european council and council (com(2017)0365 - c8-0249/2017 - 2017/2138(dec)) (a8-0116/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section iv – court of justice (com(2017)0365 - c8-0250/2017 - 2017/2139(dec)) (a8-0122/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section v – court of auditors (com(2017)0365 - c8-0251/2017 - 2017/2140(dec)) (a8-0089/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section vi – european economic and social committee (com(2017)0365 - c8-0252/2017 - 2017/2141(dec)) (a8-0097/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section vii – committee of the regions (com(2017)0365 - c8-0253/2017 - 2017/2142(dec)) (a8-0117/2018),– the report by marco valli, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section x – european external action service (com(2017)0365 - c8-0256/2017 - 2017/2145(dec)) (a8-0128/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section viii – european ombudsman (com(2017)0365 - c8-0254/2017 - 2017/2143(dec) (a8-0100/2018),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section ix – european data protection supervisor (com(2017)0365 - c8-0255/2017 - 2017/2144(dec)) (a8-0099/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2016: performance, financial management and control (com(2017)0365 - c8-0290/2017- 2017/2179(dec)) (a8-0115/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0285/2017 - 2017/2174(dec)) (a8-0074/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0286/2017 - 2017/2175(dec)) (a8-0069/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0264/2017 - 2017/2153(dec)) (a8-0106/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0258/2017 - 2017/2147(dec)) (a8-0068/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for law enforcement training (before 1 july 2016: european police college) (cepol) for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0274/2017 - 2017/2163(dec)) (a8-0098/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0269/2017 - 2017/2158(dec)) (a8-0066/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0288/2017 - 2017/2177(dec)) (a8-0083/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0282/2017 - 2017/2171(dec)) (a8-0067/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0271/2017 - 2017/2160(dec)) (a8-0085/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0278/2017 - 2017/2167(dec)) (a8-0086/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0262/2017 - 2017/2151(dec)) (a8-0090/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0277/2017 - 2017/2166(dec)) (a8-0107/2018),– the report by indrek tarand, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0270/2017 - 2017/2159(dec)) (a8-0091/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0281/2017 - 2017/2170(dec)) (a8-0087/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0283/2017 - 2017/2172(dec)) (a8-0088/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0287/2017 - 2017/2176(dec)) (a8-0096/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0265/2017 - 2017/2154(dec)) (a8-0103/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0261/2017 - 2017/2150(dec)) (a8-0081/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0268/2017 - 2017/2157(dec)) (a8-0078/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0272/2017 - 2017/2161(dec)) (a8-0114/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (now european union agency for railways) for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0273/2017 - 2017/2162(dec)) (a8-0079/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0284/2017 - 2017/2173(dec)) (a8-0101/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0267/2017 - 2017/2156(dec)) (a8-0080/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0289/2017 - 2017/2178(dec)) (a8-0111/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0263/2017 - 2017/2152(dec)) (a8-0084/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0279/2017 - 2017/2168(dec)) (a8-0102/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0259/2017 - 2017/2148(dec)) (a8-0092/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0266/2017 - 2017/2155(dec)) (a8-0113/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0280/2017 - 2017/2169(dec)) (a8-0109/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0260/2017 - 2017/2149(dec)) (a8-0093/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european border and coast guard agency (frontex) for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0275/2017 - 2017/2164(dec)) (a8-0108/2018),– the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0276/2017 - 2017/2165(dec)) (a8-0082/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the bio-based industries joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0294/2017 - 2017/2183(dec)) (a8-0071/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0293/2017 - 2017/2182(dec)) (a8-0070/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0298/2017 - 2017/2187(dec)) (a8-0072/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0296/2017 - 2017/2185(dec)) (a8-0073/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0295/2017 - 2017/2184(dec)) (a8-0075/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0291/2017 - 2017/2180(dec)) (a8-0095/2018),– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0292/2017 - 2017/2181(dec)) (a8-0077/2018), and– the report by brian hayes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the shift2rail joint undertaking for the financial year 2016 (com(2017)0365 - c8-0297/2017 - 2017/2186(dec)) (a8-0076/2018).
thank you ms ayala sender. we take note of your comments and indeed colleagues have worked really hard on these important reports. let me continue, as we move into our debate, and welcome mr klaus—heiner lehne, president of the court of auditors. commissioner oettinger is also joining us.
rapporteur. – mr president, firstly, i want to thank all of my colleagues who have worked with me on the eight joint undertakings reports which we have looked at for 2016. this has been a collaborative piece of work between members of the committee on budgetary control, colleagues and, especially, the court of auditors for the annual joint undertakings that they produce and the excellent reports that have been produced by the court of auditors, which i want to recognise. i also recognise the work done by the commission; commissioner oettinger and his team, in terms of this very important part of the annual budget. the discharge procedure is an important procedure. first and foremost, because it shines a light on public expenditure that we vote through in the seven-year multiannual framework expenditure. shining a light not just on the expenditure itself, but shining a light on the outcome of that expenditure in the various joint undertakings, which do such an important task. why is it important? first and foremost, it is important because we need more research and innovation across the european union. it’s crucial for jobs, it’s crucial for growth and it’s crucial for europe’s fightback after the crisis. so investing with industry in key areas is good for jobs and good for the economy. we are talking here looking back in 2016 and the reports that have been produced by the court of expenditure of about eur 1.8 billion in terms of collaboration with the private sector. that’s about 1.3% of the total budget. it is a crucial part of the public and private mix, so the public expenditure – the eur 1.8 billion in expenditure in 2016 – unlocks much more private expenditure which can then be used in industry for the purposes of innovation and research. i think it is important, and i have said this at the committee on all of the hearings we have had, that we demonstrate to the public what we get for this money and how industry across all of the different facets of the european union is making a difference. and that’s what is important in terms of the projects which we are looking at. i also think it is important, and this was a key part of the texts that we put through in all of the reports, that we highlight that smes especially should gain a portion of this in terms of their work with the joint undertakings. and that’s crucial for the supply chains and for industries right the way across the european union. so, of the reports we have seven unqualified opinions and we have one qualified opinion. as i suggested at the committee, i am proposing discharge in all cases. this has been unanimously accepted by the committee. i think good progress has been shown this year in terms of improvements on internal controls; an improvement also on in-kind contributions. we are beginning to see some improvement on project completion and the timelines therein, ex ante controls have been improved and the error rate reduction, i think, has to be welcomed in all of the reports. the four joint undertakings we asked to come before our committee were: shift2rail, because it was the first year; innovative medicines, because of payment issues concerning their lag between where the average payments were across other joint undertakings. as for ecsel the qualified opinion referred to the control systems, which have been highlighted by the court, but i think good explanations have been given by the joint undertakings, so i am not suggesting in that case the discharge be not granted. and then the annual questions on fusion for energy, which are really around delays in the project. it is a very significant project that has been delayed up until 2035. there were also questions about the decommissioning of the site and the future costs of this, which have been flagged in previous reports. so, i am suggesting, with the support of the house, that we would grant discharge on all eight joint undertakings which have been assessed for expenditure in 2016.
mr president, i have a puzzle for commissioner oettinger. for several months, my office has been engaged with the european court of auditors (eca) on the application of an error rate correction to the accounts of the general budget of the european commission. my concern revolves around the impact this correction has on the audit. what i have established is this: prior to the eca audit, the commission and the member states carry out audits. those audits result in corrections where errors are found. in carrying out its own audits, the eca establishes a gross error rate. occasionally they come across the commission’s member state audit from which they establish the error rate correction. but here is the problem: the activities within the audited sample are reflective of what has happened across the entire budget. thus, the gross error rate found in those samples can be extended to the entire budget. however, we know the corrections took place only in the samples audited by the commission and member states, so we know also that the correction rate cannot be thus extended. has the eca been issuing erroneous results, the true picture distorted by these corrections? until this correction question is resolved, i cannot, and will not, vote in favour of discharge. can you explain why this is happening, commissioner?
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to thank you and all the colleagues who contributed in this debate this morning, commissioner oettinger and his team, and the court of auditors and the council. i think there are three issues, as i try to conclude the eight joint undertakings. the first is a simple message to each of the joint undertakings within our remit: that citizens want to see results – the results of things that change in medicine, in the environment, in transport and airline policy, often innovations where citizens are not aware that the expenditure for those innovations has actually come from the european union. we need to brand that: we need to explain to people that it was european taxpayers who have helped those innovations. my second remark is that the joint undertakings must also explain their results within the industry. frequently, we have industry fighting against another part of the industry – that’s understandable in the context of any kind of industrial setting, but there needs to be an explanation of what people are getting for that. thirdly, often when it comes to joint undertakings the expenditure profile is over a number of financial frameworks. so it is really important to take up the message that the commissioner gave to this house and the challenge he gave to this house today between the parliament and council: that we need to come to an early view on the future framework. it would be wrong to go into this constant world war iii that exists over a year and a half on the next multiannual financial framework. we need to show, as europe, that we can agree something, stick to our position and make sure that that expenditure is robust and strong to deliver the results we want to see. if we do that, i think there will be a good outcome. i do hope that the eight discharges which i proposed in my reports will be accepted by this house today, because i think it will send a very strong signal to the european union and to industry that we can make results that ordinary people can see and understand.
mr president, i supported this report on increasing the targets for recycling of packaging materials to 65% by 2025 and 70% by 2030. i am particularly conscious of the need to encourage more and to develop more recycling facilities for plastic and to develop products that are recyclable, and i think in this debate there needs to be a producer responsibility as well as a consumer responsibility. i welcomed previously the commission’s plastic strategy, which states that is to work with producers to develop products that can be recycled, because lots of plastics cannot be recycled. consumers also can and are doing their bit in terms of not using plastic coffee cups: two million a week are disposed of in my own country of ireland, as these products cannot be recycled; and indeed the once-off plastic bottle-recycling, making sure that we don’t use products that are throw-away, so we need to encourage and move away from a throwaway society in this area.
madam president, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak, as i was the ppe rapporteur for the data protection regulation. i worked on it for three years and it is now coming into operation on 25 may. indeed, in some respects, this scandal is timely, because it brings people’s attention to it. secondly, two weeks ago i was part of a seven-strong delegation of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) to silicon valley, where facebook met us at short notice and we discussed this very topic. they outlined to us what happened and what they are doing to ensure that such a scandal won’t happen in the future. we also reiterated president tajani’s request to them for their ceo, mark zuckerberg, to come to the european parliament. i think he should come, if only for the fact that they have 50% more clients in europe than in the usa – 364 million in europe, 239 million in the usa plus canada – and also to show us what they’re doing regarding apps, algorithms, authentication, an independent commission, etc. finally, i just want to say that their headquarters in europe are in ireland, and the government in ireland are giving far more resources to ensure the general data protection regulation (gdpr) is properly monitored in the european union.
madam president, the bottom line is that facebook, or any similar company, should not be able to sell our data. the general data protection regulation (gdpr) is an excellent start. an area like this is a perfect example of where european countries in the european union should work very closely together, more so than concentrating on creating a european army. areas like this and food sovereignty are exactly what we should be doing. when it comes to accountability, given the amount of customers – and who is the customer here? we’re the product obviously – we need mr zuckerberg to come before the relevant committees and to answer questions. there are many, many positives to facebook. when i think of facebook, i think of it as a tool for democracy. i wouldn’t be here but for it. i wouldn’t have gotten canvassers together but for it. my work here would not be covered in my country but for facebook, because i and many others are ignored by our national broadcaster. there are many positives. we need to focus on them, but we need to solve this big problem too.
mr president, one year ago i had the chance to speak on this report and to congratulate mr dalton and his colleagues on their good work. today, i would like to reiterate my support of this important report, which will bring about huge changes and improvements to the car industry. in the past, we’ve had some car manufacturers falsifying fuel consumption and emissions claims due to self-interest and profit. this is completely unacceptable. i believe that the changes introduced in this regulation will do much to re-establish consumer confidence in the car industry after the scandals of the past, often known as ‘dieselgate’. even more importantly, this regulation will ensure that the health of our citizens and the environment are protected from these harmful emissions, causing up to 400 000 deaths per annum, as ms danti said. i welcome the commission’s simple role in this new and improved system. they are well positioned to assess vehicles and ensure that the new rules are adhered to. i was not convinced of the supposed benefits of introducing an agency, as the commission can do the job well and cost—effectively. i am pleased that random market surveillance will be introduced, testing one in five types every year. this new system will test emissions, but also safety standards of cars. the penalty system is vital to bring a strong establishment for these changes. those who comply with the regulation have nothing to worry about, but those who consider ignoring the requirements will be deterred by the penalties increasing in proportion with the number of non-compliances. a good job.
mr president, thank you for your indulgence. i just wanted to say two things. first of all, congratulations to martin häusling and commissioner hogan, it is been a long delivery but we’re here. but the most important point, and it struck me as i came into the chamber, is that this area of agriculture is the most prone to food fraud. so we have a real issue here that if we have a good organic sector, we have to protect us from those who will use the fact that you get a premium payment for organics to engage in fraudulent behaviour and mislabelling, so it’s just a warning. we have this new regulation. we have new rules, but remember there are those who will use organics in a most improper way and destroy the good work that has just been undertaken by the rapporteur.
mr president, thank you paulo rangel for your work on this. one of my responsibilities as vice-president is relationships with national parliaments so i’m pleased to hear in your speech that you believe the relationships are much better now. i’m not sure that that’s all down to me but i think we are making an effort in our relationships and dialogue with national parliamentarians. i mentioned yesterday, in the debate on the future of europe with president macron, that there is a tension there, as other colleagues have said. so we need to try and find an informal way as well as formal structures as to how we improve it. one of the ways we could it is in our own political parties, where we could try and strengthen the relationships we have with our own colleagues because this can be difficult. but there are issues here. one is time and the second is willingness. if we could have more time and, indeed, more willingness things might be better. the last point is, we will not have a stronger european union without cooperative national parliamentarians who speak up for europe and talk it up in their constituencies and in their national parliaments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april 2018.
the next item is the report by ramon tremosa i balcells, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on competition policy (2017/2191(ini)) (a8—0049/2018).
madam president, i want to congratulate and thank my friend mr tremosa i balcells for his report and welcome the commissioner to our proceedings. i promise not to talk about tax tonight! we have one of the most integrated single markets in the world. it is a rules-based single market, and we have got to make sure that our competition policy delivers rules for consumers and for businesses big and small, to make sure it is fair competition, and we need in the annual report – as has been said by the rapporteur – to make that very, very, clear. we also need to support national competition authorities – i think you said before, commissioner, that 85% of all cases are taken at the national level. they need support, they need resources, and they need a legal basis to take cases. i very much support the ecn+ directive, which is about giving additional support to national authorities. three particular points in relation to my own country: in ireland, we have to prove on a criminal charge, which is a very high charge, whether or not an enforcement can be taken. we need to move to a non-criminal basis. secondly, in ireland we do not apply a leniency programme, which would encourage national competition authorities to cut deals with people to give evidence so that those cases can be taken in court to reduce fines for those businesses that come forward with evidence. the third point is a brexit-related issue: as you can understand, in my country we share information with the uk on a daily basis, with their competition authority to our competition authority. we need some agreement in the overall agreement to make sure that that flow of information continues, based on eu rules, and it is important that in the uk actually lives up to the cases that will follow their leaving of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april 2018.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the disclosure of income tax information by certain undertakings and branches by pavel svoboda, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000015/2018-(b8-0013/2018) (2016/0107(cod)) (2018/2552(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on vaccine hesitancy and the drop in vaccination rates in europe by renate sommer, elena gentile, bolesław g. piecha, gesine meissner, kateřina konečná, marco affronte, and mireille d’ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety ((o-000008/2018 - (2017/2951(rsp)) (b8-0011/2018)),– the oral question to the commission on vaccine hesitancy and the drop in vaccination rates in europe by renate sommer, elena gentile, bolesław g. piecha, gesine meissner, kateřina konečná, marco affronte, and mireille d’ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000009/2018 - (2017/2951(rsp)) (b8-0012/2018)).
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 128(1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 19 april 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by soraya post and teresa jiménez—becerril barrio, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the implementation of directive 2011/99/eu on the european protection order (2016/2329(ini)) (a8-0065/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the implementation of the bologna process – state of play and follow-up by petra kammerevert (o-000020/2018 - b8-0014/2018).
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on belarus (2018/2661(rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the situation in the philippines is deeply troubling. the philippines and the eu have a long-standing relationship in terms of diplomacy, economy, culture and policy. and indeed there is a long-standing relationship between my country ireland and philippines, for many irish missionaries for centuries have gone to educate young filipinos. so it is important that the eu provide its support to the government of the philippines in restoring stability and respecting the rule of law. through ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreement, the eu and the philippines confirmed their joint commitment to the principles of good governance, democracy, the rule of law, the promotion of social and economic development and to peace and security in the region. i am particularly concerned, therefore, about the decision to withdraw from the rome statute, which deals with the four core international crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression. this brings even more urgency to an already volatile situation, and i am hopeful that the government of the philippines will reconsider its actions and reverse its decisions.
mr president, i congratulate those who worked so hard to bring this resolution here before us today. we have to condemn all violence, no matter who the perpetrators are. but at the same time we have to look at things from a point of view of the long-term perspective. one mep said that we have to be clear on which side we are on. isn’t that exactly the problem when you’re trying to bring peace – taking sides? i know from northern ireland that, if the european union (which played a very important part), and especially the us special envoy, george mitchell, wasn’t seen to be neutral and impartial by both sides, we wouldn’t have the good friday agreement: now, 20 years of peace. similar diplomacy is needed if we are to bring about the two-state solution, which we all desire, i think, in israel and the gaza strip, and i think we have a very important role to play in that. but we must get the confidence of both sides: get them around a table and hash out an agreement, for ever more. this cannot continue: killings after killings after killings.
i'm not going to kill you. it is a pity that such a policy has been adopted in europe in recent years, especially in france. i hope you'll find a way to stop the law from disturbing you. stronger rules should be put in place on trade and financial systems so that the group can raise more money and raise more money than the state. cooperation between member states shall be governed by the laws of the member states. the european union is a global player in the field of human rights. i am pleased to say that the balance achieved by the european union is between the need for privacy and economic freedom and the need to improve security. go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom is seo a dhéanamh. i'm glad you're here. i'm glad you're here.
a uachtaráin, i voted for you in your election because gur dul chun cinn an-important is. in the eu, there are many organic farming areas where organic crops are grown. we're currently losing market share in that market. but we can now have an organic way of producing in the eu instead of going ahead with import. there are many farmers who use modhanna talmhaíochta that are not far from organic farming and they are braided with a lot of processed paper and paper products that are not organic. i'll kill you if you go back to sharu. the standard is currently aged organically. they felt a risk that would change the air in the body and lead to leather. i'm glad the farmers are back in europe, especially in ireland, and they're in the thick of it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it gives me great pleasure to represent the epp here this afternoon. the epp are fully committed to industrialisation of europe and keeping our competitiveness. i would like to congratulate the alde group and support and, indeed, reiterate their question on this crucial issue, which was so well presented to us just now by ivan jakovčić. the future of the european shipbuilding sector is under great threat from growing international shipbuilding industries, and only a clear, targeted eu shipbuilding policy offering an integrated and unified approach towards international competition will help europe to cope with these competitive and societal challenges. we need to develop a collective strategy that rivals that of our asian counterparts, for example. ireland, my country, is an island nation and is well served by a thriving shipbuilding industry and can contribute greatly to a joint european effort to re-jig the sector. during the 1820s and 30s cork, in my constituency, became the most important shipbuilding centre in the country and continued to be important until the 1860s. the verolme docks at rushbrooke in cobh once employed over 1100 people in shipbuilding and many large ships were built and launched from there. this included a number of vessels such as the l.e. eithne, which has been for the irish naval service, which has its headquarters nearby. the verolme dockyard unfortunately closed in 1984 with major job losses to the area and greatly contributed to ireland’s dwindling shipbuilding sector. the port of cork, however, is the second biggest in the country and linked to major other ports. this could contribute greatly to this development. small boat building, repair and refurbishment and offshore operation and maintenance continue to operate in cork and throughout ireland, but the potential beneficial opportunities in reviving this once-thriving shipbuilding industry are endless. limerick, also in my constituency, has foynes port, a wonderful port. i’m currently working with the port company ceo, pat keating, to get it upgraded to corridor status. given that it is one of europe’s most naturally deep ports, it has huge potential. and on may 18 i will be guest speaker at a major conference in limerick organised by foynes port. i want to thank the commission, who will be taking part there are and will be able to see the port for themselves. also, there are many small fishing ports in my constituency, such places as kilmore quay, castletownbere, dingle and dunmore east. they are fishing ports, they are vital for the economy of the constituencies and we must give them every opportunity to develop. finally, i just want to say, we also have rosslare harbour in my constituency. this is used for ferries for human beings and for goods and also for haulage. especially in a post-brexit era its going become of major importance. so we have an opportunity to do what our president antonio tajani once said to stop the industrial massacre of europe and especially to rebuild our shipping industry. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that not only we will but we have to be. i was encouraged by the words of the commissioner in stating how we were going to regain our competitiveness and help our ports. i think once we put our units and our strengths together we can do an enormous amount to help the shipbuilding industry and to compete with china, and not only with china but also korea and other places. europe has to regain its industrial strength, as i mentioned in relation to antonio tajani. and that’s what we’re going to do, and we can do it together with the commission and – as you said – the member states.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the commission, which is the lead agency on the project, has budgeted for the first seven years of its existence, and welcomes the increase in research, education and training expenditure in the horizon and erasmus+ programmes. however, at the same time, the commission is of the opinion that more investment should be made in such fortress europe projects, especially in the traditional areas of research. we forgot to bring our own food. we're not going to eat it. what kind of message is sent to the agate laws there, to choimisinéir? i was sent to teach military courses in chur chun cinn. is it an oidhreacht that you are happy to stay here for another seven years? the commission has put forward a number of proposals for the cap and for a coherent policy. i don't know what good is. as regards the reductions in the cohesion policy, the commission welcomes the member states' participation in the eu budget. oh, by the way, i'm recommending that you reduce the amount of money in the machine that's important to us. the commission is also requesting the assistance of the countries concerned to help them achieve their objectives. i am against any request for a cap and fishing courses and there is no doubt that there is going to be a request for a cap. mar a sheasann sé faoi láthair, tá sé i bhfabhar na feirmeoirí saibhre agus gnó talamhaíochta, agus idir an dá linn, feicimid feirmeoirí agus pobail bheaga tuaithe ag fulaingt. the name of the village is the same as that of the village of the same name. however, the breatimeacht is currently in the sector, and will be in the future. there's a lot more damage to be done than in the future, but if we can't continue down the road, we'll be far from the people who killed us. there's also a 5% increase in environmental costs. we've made it so that the world has an opportunity to respond to our needs and we've made it so that the world has something to do with our environment. we have now, in choimisinéir, a school that is willing to provide, a school that is based on európa sosia, európa ina bhfuil síocháin, comhionannas agus daonlathas mar fhís lárnach. and we can be very careful about the laws in the country, but at the same time, we can focus on the money in the economy and make real investment, but not social investment. i hope you'll meet the man without a job today, choimisinéir. thank you.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, first of all i’d like to congratulate mr valli on what i believe is an excellent report. unfortunately, however, and as happens so often in these cases where one of their own isn’t the rapporteur, the epp and its supporters have managed to dilute the report somewhat, forcing mr valli into the position of trying to introduce in plenary, via amendments to his own file, elements that were rejected in committee. i have a problem with the european investment bank in the manner in which it has funded what is meant to be a semi-state body in ireland called coillte but which is in fact run like its own little kingdom, dominating the timber supply market in ireland. these loans are provided at interest rates that ordinary farmers who might like to get into agri-forestry, or even individuals who would like to get into the timber supply, can only dream of. perhaps the eib would like to revisit the issue and at least create a level playing field. again, i congratulate mr valli and i wish him well with these amendments.
mr president, the eib has come more into focus, especially in recent years with the development of efsi. there is no doubt that this has been a huge success, which has been recognised internationally by many people who very dubious about it initially. so credit goes to the eib, the commission and particularly president juncker. i myself have hosted four or five public events in my constituency on efsi. there was a big attendance and the attendees were really appreciative, especially of the presence of mr murphy, who is the head of the eib office in dublin. i think that all this is helping to bridge what was once a financial gap, create employment and give a good positive image of european institutions and especially of the eib itself. one thing that speakers mentioned – and which i would reiterate – is that, if at all possible, we need to do more for smes so that thresholds can be lowered and smes can benefit from the great work of the eib.
mr president, (inaudible) ... where there are abuses any here across the european union, we should discuss them here in parliament, and i welcome this debate. also we learn from rosa and others than only six member states have ratified the istanbul convention. it is really appalling in the european union, which is founded on equality, that this has occurred, and i think it is time for either the council or the commission to give each member state a deadline by which it has to be ratified, but also then say how it was to be interpreted equally in terms of consent, sexual violence, rape, etc. i think that’s a very important issue. then there’s another part missing: the educational aspect. young boys have to be educated that it is not manly or macho to be treating girls in a disrespectful manner. they need to grow up as gentlemen who respect women, not macho thugs who abuse them.
mr president, my colleague roberta metsola outlined the position of children in the european union arriving unaccompanied, and missing children, which is very tragic. i think our aim should be simple: to treat these children as if they were our own. i think that we should do everything we can to provide them with a home where they are warm and comfortable, and a school where they can be educated and reach their potential. i think that is what the people of the european union want, and indeed one of the great joys of being an mep is going round to schools in my constituency where i see children from all different nationalities from outside the european union, sitting side by side with children from my own country, integrating properly. on monday, i was in the biggest primary school in my area, in killarney – st. oliver’s. there they are preparing for the blue star, and the work done by children from outside the european union was fantastic – their knowledge, their pride and the way they are integrated and accepted. that is what we need to do. give them a home, give them an education.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome commissioner bieńkowska’s commitment and intent, as she outlined just now, because in 2004 the eu banned animal testing for cosmetic products and five years later it banned animal testing for cosmetic ingredients. since 2009, the marketing of any cosmetic products containing animal-tested ingredients has also been banned, so now it is time for the rest of the world to follow suit. sadly, up to 80% of countries around the world still use animal testing and continue to allow for the marketing of animal-tested cosmetics. i am hopeful that this cruel and inhumane practice will be eliminated entirely by 2023. these eu prohibitions in recent years have been hugely significant for the promotion of animal welfare. as well as this, europe’s cosmetic products market is the biggest in the world and provides approximately two million jobs at present. evidently, the success of this market is achievable without sacrificing animal welfare, so we need to work with the commission to get a worldwide ban.
author. – mr president, i have been trying to get this on the agenda for quite some time, so i’m happy that at least there are a few of us interested and in the chamber, because a lot of people depend on farmers and they’re probably out eating at the moment. i was particularly struck by one of our own farm safety specialists in ireland, and i’ll read again the heading of an article which he contributed to where he said ‘europe is being fed on the lives of 1,000 farmers every single year’, and he was angry because he also added that in europe we know how many calves are born, we know about their welfare but we cannot tell how many farmers are killed every year, and he described that as a disgrace and i agree with him. it is true that far too many people on farms in my country and across the european union are killed while going about their daily lives. it’s also true that many suffer terrible accidents on farms – children, men and women. it is a silent and hidden problem and it’s something that we need to lift the lid on. so i hope that this debate this evening is a start in that process. commissioner we need a clear picture of what’s happening on all farms across europe. i spoke about my own member state, and the situation there is not good, but we don’t know with any great accuracy the level of fatalities and accidents. we hear anecdotal stories, but we need the facts and we need to ask why this is happening. is there relentless pressure on farmers today that perhaps is intensified because they are more isolated and farming alone more than in the past? long hours, sleeplessness, physical activity when people are tired all add to the stresses and strains. i know that recently we’ve had terrible weather conditions in many countries and that affects the physical well-being of farmers and their mental well-being, and when people are tired and emotionally drained accidents do and will happen. but there is another question that i think we need to address here this evening. we all talk about the family farm. it’s a romantic notion and we defend it and we want to contribute to its survival and we hold it dear, but we need to ask ourselves is the combination of family and farm part of the problem? i’m not advocating that we move away from the family farm model, but i think we do need to ask the hard questions that by not separating the business and the family we may be creating more difficulties around accidents and fatalities – it is a question that we need to discuss. farms are now more intensive, there are fewer people working on them, and therefore one of the things i’ve tried to do when we talk about getting the facts on this situation is to get details into one of the files we’re working on integrated farm statistics. i think there’s a lot of resistance among council and member states to actually work together to get accurate statistics, counting the same things, and i would have thought it’s an issue that there should be some unity on, so perhaps the commission could help us in that regard. i want to talk also about well-being and health generally, because in my own member state there are some very disturbing figures around the high incidence of occupational injury and disease amongst farmers. they are a very high-risk group for lifestyle diseases and yet the image of farmers is that they work outdoors, it’s fresh air and it’s healthy, while in fact the reality for many farmers is that their health is not good and indeed in the research that i’ve looked at from the irish researchers shows that farmers in my country have significantly higher mortality rates from cardiovascular disease, cancers and other causes of death compared with other occupational groups. so again those statistics are anything but comforting. when i talk to you about the pressures farmers are under – and commissioner you know we talked about the european budget today, so it’s not a night to discuss it in detail – farmers will be anxious about pressures on their budgets. they will welcome your attempt to tackle unfair trading practices. i dare say there are many farmers who are looking at this massive merger that’s happening in the united kingdom between asda and sainsbury’s and saying to themselves, ‘well that’s something to look forward to!’ this is part of the relentless pressure farmers are under: that massive merger will put some people ‘in the money’, as the gentleman sang when he was being interviewed, but it would be very bad for suppliers who expect to see a 10% cut in the prices they get. there is a link in all of this. you can push people very far and too far, and in my view the pressures in the food supply chain heap back on the producers and on farmers, that’s why we have the horror story of accidents and fatalities, and something’s got to be done about it.
mr president, i would like to thank ms esther herranz garcía for this report. there are two particular issues i want to raise – both of them surround the brexit issue. the first one is around how we are going to allocate the tariff—rate quotas that come from new zealand and australia to the european union, and maybe the commissioner would respond to that, because that is a significant issue. as i understand it, the plans – such as they are – by the uk and the european union on this issue are not acceptable to the countries involved. you might comment. the second issue is also brexit—related, because many of the lambs produced in northern ireland come to the republic of ireland for processing and then go to france for consumption. clearly, we will have problems around that issue when brexit happens, and we’re not clear as to the shape of brexit around customs, around borders and around standards. maybe the commissioner could just reference that in his response.
mr president, facebook recently launched a pilot project on greater transparency in political advertising for the upcoming ‘repeal the 8th’ referendum in ireland. it was nothing but window dressing, an attempt by facebook to be seen to be doing something. citizens have a right to know who is behind advertising campaigns and what data is being harvested from them. this week, websites targeting undecided voters with claims of providing unbiased facts have been found to be linked to the ‘no’ side in the referendum. clicking on the adverts identified you as an undecided voter, vital information to have if you are an active player in the campaign. once exposed, the website disappeared but it took with it a cachet of information on the identity of undecided voters, voters to target in the run-up to polling day. ireland needs to get real on regulating social media platforms. it is not about shutting down debate, but we need equality of opportunity for all sides and transparency of electoral spend. we need onerous transparency obligations imposed on the social media platforms. if we do not, then we might as well hand over our democracy to mark zuckerberg.
mr president, i just want to highlight the merger that was announced between two retail giants, sainsbury and asda in the united kingdom, to create a mega retail company and there has been much reporting of this in the business papers saying it’s a wonderful thing. but there are many suppliers, not just in the united kingdom but in ireland and across europe, who are terrified of this merger because the company plans to bring about a cut of 10% in the price of popular products and you can imagine who will take the hit for that 10% – it will be the suppliers and the producers and farmers. they will enjoy – and it is been described as never-before-seen – bargaining power, and in my view the bargaining power they will have is appalling. it is not something to be praised or warmly welcomed, it is something to be feared and i think that commissioner hogan is in the chamber and is trying to tackle unfair trading practices and he might take note of this merger.
mr president, the discussions and debates here with the prime minister started by my own prime minister in january – leo varadkar – have been very impressive and worthwhile and mr michel today is equally impressive, knowledgeable and competent and up-front. so two points i want to make one. one, i would ask him to do everything he can to increase the budget for the european union. this is where the added value is. my second question is, does he see a smooth brexit and if not, what are the consequences for belgium? the other point made by my colleague ms šuica is expansion. how quick does he see expansion in the european union, especially in relation to the western balkans?
madam president, this annual report is important to assess the level of fraud or attempted fraud that occurs in the eu over the year. i welcome it and i voted for it. the results of this annual report are very promising. it outlines that there was a 15% decrease in fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities in the eu in 2016, compared to 2015. this decrease clearly illustrates that the implementations that have been introduced are effective and they are helping to combat fraud across the eu. we welcome that. this report also includes suggestions for the protection of whistle-blowers in the eu, in ensuring they are afforded the best treatment while investigating their complaints. the report also suggests methods that may be introduced to combat further fraud in the future. this is imperative for ireland, and for the eu as a whole, to ensure that the euro currency and the economy are not taken advantage of through fraudulent means. we always have to be vigilant. fraudsters are never going to go away.
aachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an tuairisc seo agus is dóigh liom gur maith an rud é go mbeadh feisirí ar eolas faoi chaiteachas agus imeachtaí bhanc infheistíochta na heorpa, agus tríd an tuairisc seo agus tríd an díbattle a bhí againn aréir - agus bhí áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh ann - tagaimid ar eolas sin. the following is a list of the members of the european parliament who have been elected to the european parliament for the term of office of the current president of the european council: freisin is now a high priority for the eib, especially because of the work being done by the eib on the hesi. i'm going to hold a public meeting and i'm going to talk to myself. cormac murphy came to ireland and the eib in ireland to attend the meeting, and people were very happy with the meeting, so we went to see them and invited them to all the meetings and invited them to another meeting, where they were very happy with the eib. therefore, it is jab an-mhaith to do with agus caithfimid to be proud of this.
madam president, regarding bottlenecks: tell me and my constituents in ireland south all about them – we have no shortage of them. for instance, in my own county of kerry, if we are travelling to the big cities on either side of us – limerick and cork – we have bottlenecks in balleyvourney, macroom, abbeyfeale, newcastle west and adare. this is a huge inconvenience to natives, but also to tourists, and of course is detrimental to quality of life and leads to increased emissions, which is not good. but, thankfully, help is at hand, because there are genuine plans to eliminate those bottlenecks. i think the cohesion funding and structural funds are playing a big part in that, and indeed have played a big part in improving the road network in ireland and across the european union, and that should be recognised. i think it is good that we hone in now on these bottlenecks right across the european union and eliminate them for the sake of the quality of life of all people and in our fight against climate change by reducing unnecessary emissions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on international trade (inta), i want to say that i am very proud of our farmers and the food they produce in the european union. indeed as the trade committee, the inta committee, we are very pleased also to note that we have had a positive trade balance in relation to the products we have produced for eight years in a row now. this is because of the standards which are applied within europe and which are set and monitored by the commission, and they deserve great credit for that. and, of course, because of the high standards of our food, the safety of our food, there is growing demand for it worldwide. i would like to compliment commissioner hogan in particular on his efforts to grow new markets, especially in places like china which is growing rapidly, and here again, standards is what will be the key issue. i think this is a very positive story where we are concerned. one point, though, that i would make is that we need to continue to have research and innovation in europe because that way we will maintain our leadership.
mr president, thank you for your work mr dorfmann. i have to say i am worried when you look at what happened with a package that was designed at home in ireland – glas. it was meant to be simple because it was designed at home and people would understand what they were at and we ended up with mayhem on it and it was anything but simple; but the biggest problem that we had with it is that when farmers then came to us and were told that they had to do x, y and z, when we brought them to the commission, the commission told them they could do nothing about it. they couldn’t help them and they were sent back and forward and back and forward and the problem was never solved. so who will take ownership of it if there is an issue there? there is good news definitely, the idea that farmers will not be paid for what they did decades ago – that’s a good move. the idea that areas of natural constraint will get more funding – who could disagree with that? unless of course you’re on really good land. and the idea that farmers would get paid for public goods, which they are already delivering and not getting properly paid for, that’s a good idea. a bit of a curate’s egg.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank nicola caputo and the shadows for this report. it comes at a very important time for european agriculture, not least for our young farmers. as you are aware, the commission will adopt and publish its legislative proposals for the future of the cap shortly, and i am very confident that you will see clear consistency between the recommendations that you have made, and the proposal that the commission intends to bring forward in respect of young farmers. as mr caputo has pointed out, only 6% of european farmers are younger than 35 years, compared to 56% who are older than 55 years. therefore, with an ageing agricultural community, generational renewal is increasingly important, and it needs to be accompanied by adapted policies. currently, measures in pillars one and two provide support to young farmers, notably the young farmer payment under pillar one, which was introduced to provide an enhanced income support to newly-established young farmers during the initial setting-up period. in 2016, more than 300 000 newly set-up young farmers in the eu benefitted from this additional payment, which amounted to support of about eur 360 million. the rural development policy also makes fundamental contributions to creating the best possible environment for young farmers. according to the targets that have been brought to the attention of the commission by member states and the rural development programmes, specific support for 176 000 young farmers will help a new generation of farmers to develop their businesses. so the commission shares the views of the european parliament that support for young farmers should continue and be improved. this is a position that i have consistently articulated over the last few years. this is why attracting new farmers and facilitating generational renewal will be an important objective of the cap post 2020. young farmers will benefit from a wide range of instruments, which will include a combination of mandatory and voluntary aspects. but the commission will not be able to do this alone, and member states will be requested to establish a generational renewal strategy and address key issues that your report has clearly highlighted, particularly those for which the member states and not the european union has competence. it will be important to describe how national instruments – for example taxation, inheritance law, regulation of land markets, territorial planning – can complement eu-supported interventions, and member states will not get approval for their plans unless they are able to have a very important package for generational renewal, which is a good example of where we will have a common agricultural policy supported and approved at eu level. in relation to access to land and land transfer, the commission shares the rapporteur’s view that this is a major barrier to young farmers setting up. this is why we have proposed to support forms of cooperation that could encompass farm partnerships between generations of farmers; farm succession or transition-planning services; brokerage for land acquisition; innovative national or regional organisations engaged in promoting and facilitating matching services between younger and older farmers. these are some examples that we can utilise more fully. on top of this, young farmers will benefit from investment support and knowledge transfer and training interventions, which are important to ensure the long-term sustainability of our farms. member states will be allowed to establish financial instruments supporting working capital. this instrument can be of primary importance for young farmers and new entrants, who face more difficulties given the high investments and low returns of a start-up phase. the commission continues to engage with the european investment bank, especially through our fi-compass platform, to learn from experiences and best practices on specific schemes for young farmers and new entrants. as part of the cap planning process, the commission will fully engage in accompanying member state authorities to develop sound schemes for generational renewal, depending on the specific needs, focusing on innovative approaches, best practices and knowledge-sharing. so the members of the house, particularly those who are members of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), who have taken a very keen interest in, and constructive approach to, the needs of young farmers, can be assured that the commission shares this view and will be bringing forward proposals accordingly. it is essential that we have more young people involved in farming in order to develop an efficient, competitive european agriculture and food production sector in the future. this report from mr caputo, together with the report that we have just discussed by mr dorfmann, are important contributions to the commission’s policy development, and as i said at the outset, i hope that they will recognise many of the proposals and recommendations that can be seen in the commission’s forthcoming proposals.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, if it was any other profession, we wouldn’t really be asking this question. if we were talking about a carpenter that went off to work every day and they come back with less money than they left in the morning with, you wouldn’t be asking why they were leaving the profession. likewise with a hairdresser, if they couldn’t make money off it, you wouldn’t be asking why they were leaving the profession – you’d know why. likewise with an electrician, if they couldn’t make a profit doing it, you wouldn’t be able to get anyone to do it. but you wouldn’t say the problem with the carpenter was access to wood, the problem for the hairdresser was access to scissors, or the problem for an electrician was access to copper. the problem is there’s no money in it and they’re not making any money out of it, and why would any young person go into a profession where they can’t make a living? so how do we help them make a living? we help them make a living by paying them for their produce, by a fair distribution of the cap and by paying them for public goods. then you’ll solve the mystery. would any of you do a job that you didn’t get anything for? no, you wouldn’t. the problem is profitability.
mr president, it was only this year that the people of the west of ireland learned that, back in 2011, the then minister for transport, now taoiseach, leo varadkar, intervened to prevent eu funding to the western and border regions of ireland, including funding for the vital western rail corridor. that this outrageous action hardly surprised anyone living in those parts of ireland is itself telling. the truth is that a privatisation and centralisation agenda on the part of successive irish governments has led to huge regional imbalances, massive disparities in economic growth and job creation, and an inexistent public transport system across many parts of my constituency. the questions that the european institutions now need to ask themselves are these: do they want to be complicit in denying citizens to access to public transport, and are they going to allow irish governments to continue to treat the trans-european transport network (ten-t) objectives with contempt? there is massive demand for rail transport across parts of ireland that have been ignored by irish governments. but will the commission now step up on their behalf or will they ignore them also?
the president, i have to go to the president because of an initial letter from the commission to the european union and the laws on the budget. the commission's decisions are clear. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the new rules on the functioning of the internal market. the budget is a far-reaching one, and i'm glad to see that it's been able to make a difference. the european union shall be established by the treaty establishing the european community and by the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community. it is an europa faoi bhagairt, though. europe is under threat from the aggravating climate crisis, social services, housing, the annual emergency, climate change. basically, the choice of a company is to move further away from the socially based europe, to the more socially and economically stable europe, to the more socially and economically developed europe. the commission is committed to a europe without borders, without borders and without financial instruments. less courage, less loyalty, and more giving of money spent on military matters. minig is a farmer's son, a choimisinéir.
mr president, this topic was discussed here in parliament last night. and rightly so, because young people – be it in agriculture or any other walk of life – are the future of their sectors. unfortunately, in farming the figures are alarming. according to agriland, the number of young farmers declined from one million in 2005 to 600 000 in 2013. access to land is a major issue, and i’m very pleased that commissioner hogan is giving this great emphasis in his proposals on the next cap. but hand-in-hand with that must go an incentive for all farmers to be able to retire profitably and hand over the land to young people. the young farmers’ organisations, such as the european council of young farmers (ceja) in europe and macra na feirme in my own country, are doing fantastic work in promoting the interests of young farmers and doing charitable and social work, and indeed widening the base of agriculture. i think their views on the next cap must certainly be taken on board, and that will go a long way to solving this difficulty.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the gaza strip and the status of jerusalem (2018/2719(rsp)).
could i suggest – and yes please, put on your headset – that if you have a vital point to make with respect to our time, please make it first so that you speak within your time.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in nicaragua (2018/2711(rsp)). the vice-president is replaced in the debate and will be represented by commissioner stylianides.
mr president, personally i am sick to death of listening to leaders of groups, parties and governments laying all their ills at europe’s door, when they themselves haven’t the courage of a mouse or the common sense of an imbecile. thankfully, prime minister bettel is not one of those, and i commend him on his courage and his good sense here today. he made one very important statement. he said ‘shared sovereignty guarantees our own sovereignty’, and i want to ask him how come the smallest member state can have that attitude when a big member state like the united kingdom has to say that they are losing sovereignty and they must ‘take back control’? have you not lost control by being involved in the european union? what is the secret, when the smallest country can feel empowered and enriched, and the big countries, with all their influence and all their meps, feel the opposite. there must be a secret. can you tell it to us, please?
mr president, for many of us the detail in this report is important, but for farmers it is the budget to support the common agricultural policy which is vital. i quote figures from irish agriculture from last year, where cattle and sheep farmers were entirely reliant on the payment for their income. what that means is that if they didn’t have the payment they would be working for nothing. it’s a very stark reality, and therefore we do have to press that the budget for agriculture is not slashed in the coming review of the multiannual financial framework. added to that, we want to support young farmers. one of my concerns is that the young farmer payment goes to the landowner from whom the land is rented and not directly to the young farmer. that is something we will have to address. on the issue of moving away from historic payments, which started in 2013, i expect the proposals due on friday to continue that process and i look forward to the details.
the president, who had voted in favour of the report in august, as rapporteur for the trade choice report, took part in the debate which took place on monday evening in the presence of the commissioner for trade and the dorfmann report. i must say that i am hopeful that there is a future for farmers and for the union. oh, i'd like to hear about it. first, although we are negotiating a free trade agreement, we are committed to ensuring that the way in which we enter the union is in line with the laws and standards provided by the union itself. in addition, we have also tried to ensure that there will be no industrial dispute settlement under the laws on industrial dispute settlement and that there will be no free trade agreement like mercosur. without it.
(start of speech off mike) ... mr president, the powers that be have already made up their minds. the future of europe is set out in how we spend the budget up until 2027. the priorities are clear: fighting before feeding. what is proposed is a larger budget than we currently have – this in spite of the uk leaving. the hole is to be filled by an increase in contributions from member states through a variety of means, yet we’re being told that funding to the two most important areas – agriculture and cohesion – must be cut. so the cake is bigger, but still we have less for the two most important areas. so why? well, the answer is that priorities are changing. what used to be core common policy – feeding the population – has been replaced with a common policy on defence. the budget commissioner, gunter oettinger, was at least open as to why agriculture was to be cut when he said that there are more important areas. so here we are, with the eu, which touts itself as the ‘biggest peace project of our time’, and we’re told there has not been in a war in europe since the foundation of this institution, and yet, after all these years of peace, we are now to become a war machine and we are to sacrifice our ability to feed ourselves to do it. madness! i voted against this rubbish.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it is not an accident that various golden visa schemes in the eu have been surrounded by corruption scandals. golden visa schemes in the eu are designed to facilitate money laundering – they actually invite it. they allow dirty money to be entered into a clean economy, often through real estate with minimal checks. the basic fact that explains why the existing due diligence procedures for the ultra-rich applicants are failing so badly is because they are not designed to work. these schemes worsen inequality within states and between them. so we urgently need strict and enforceable due diligence procedures to determine the origin of the money flowing into the eu through these schemes. but do we really want simply to regulate these commodity schemes? they foster corruption and inequality, as we know, and we should be preventing and abolishing them entirely. selling citizenship to the highest bidder when millions of refugees in need are being turned away at the gates of the eu is the scandal of our time. rights should not be for sale, full stop.
mr president, i think we need to deal with this issue, to protect consumers in their own national country but also on a cross-border basis, because it is fundamentally an issue of fraud, an issue of safety. fraud, because of the economic cost to the economy – and those who are purchasing second-hand cars don’t have the same information as the vendor, and it is cheating and the cost will be more expensive for a car that is not what they think they’re buying. of course there is the safety issue. we know that there are regular checks in terms of maintenance of the car, and if the mileage has been tampered with, those checks won’t be administered, leaving those who have purchased the car in a very dangerous situation. i want to thank mr ertug for his report. it’s had strong support in the committee on transport and tourism. something needs to be done, and we have pointed out how that can be done, pointed to the success of the europass system and how that works, and indeed technology today can certainly help us in ensuring we have a solution for consumers across europe.
madam president, meps from all across the house have expressed their concern at the misuse of funding from ipa funds in turkey, and that is understandable because funds should be used for proper purposes and especially not for military purposes. however, i would like to ask commissioner hahn, in his regard, especially in relation to migration, when jean-claude junker first announced funding here in parliament we were almost overwhelmed in europe by the migration crisis. it threatened to bring down europe. have things stabilised since? they seem to have and how much is that attributable to funding with turkey? i know that we have to be hugely concerned about the disrespect for the rule of law, the lack of freedom of the press, judiciary, etc., in turkey and i can safely say as a result of that that nobody in this house will be here the day that turkey walks in here as members of the european parliament.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the uachtaráin, in ainneoin go bhfuil rialtas na héireann ag rá linn go bhfuil cúrsaí ag dul i bhfeabhas, is the rate now at the age of 18 that is still in school, with a 20% drop in education. geall doubted the economic situation. i'm sure that even if i had a job, i wouldn't have had the money to move to another country. it is a shame that the eu is one of the countries that is using the yei. it's hard to believe that only €8 million of the €136 million drawn down by the rialtas, have been used as currency in the past four years. it is scannalach when there are many people who do not have the opportunity to receive education. nil tuismitheoirí abaltta on the coasts ollmhóra is to iompar. there was a time when the rialtas elected a yei, there is no leishscéal acu, there was no leishscéal acu le fašer lane agus táim ag glaoch anois ar an rialtas promise to bring to the future dhearfach to create give to anyone óga agus stop to chur leis an tseafóid. i know.
madam president, i have great faith in young people and actually, i think that young people have great faith in the european union – contrary to what some people have said tonight. how else can you explain the fact that the majority of young people voted to remain in the european union in the brexit vote? the old fogies have taken them out. also, in my own country, in a recent survey a whopping 97% of young people were in favour of the european union, because they have enough intelligence to distinguish between populist rhetoric and facts. they see roaming. they see data protection. they see youth employment. they see erasmus+. they see equality between young women and men, and they see the priority that has been given to young farmers in the next common agricultural policy (cap). young people are not fools. there are issues: dropouts, ok; unemployment; social exclusion. but in a rising economy, with the member states, they can be solved. i see a good future for the youth, and i see a great future for the european union.
madam president, i fully support the report on the implementation of the ecodesign directive. the directive has been instrumental in improving energy efficiency across europe, which everybody must welcome. it has significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions, has led to economic benefits for consumers, thanks to increased competition amongst manufacturers, and has provided opportunities for sustainable growth and jobs, including in the small and medium-sized enterprises (sme) sector. it is helping to eliminate the least-performing products in the market, significantly contributing to the eu’s 2020 energy-efficiency objectives. this is an area which is extremely important both to me, as rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, and to my constituents. and, incidentally, both commissioner cañete and i will be back here at 8 o’clock in the morning for a four-hour trilogue on the same renewable energy directive. have a good night’s sleep, commissioner! when inefficient incandescent light bulbs were phased out across ireland, beginning in 2008, this saw significant reductions in energy usage and gradually lowered spending on light bulbs for our citizens. this has considerably helped low-income households who are at risk of energy poverty. i look forward to a time when products such as smartphones, which are sold in large numbers and replaced frequently, can be more efficient, and i support the commission’s recommendations on this. this is a topic of major importance to everybody: increasing transparency and ensuring that irish and european citizens embrace energy efficiency as soon as possible.
mr president, i think it’s important as well, as others have said this morning, to recognise that when we have petitions from citizens, we need to pay attention and approach them with the correct attitude and in the spirit that they were meant. actually, working conditions are a combination of eu and national competences, and i think we should recognise that and that there are differences, but i also think the european union can play a very strong role in this area – and has done. the transparent and predictable working conditions currently in parliament ... we’ve had a hearing recently in the employment committee and the european labour authority recognises that workers across europe need to be protected. in my own country, in ireland, we recently introduced legislation to ban zero—hours contracts and to address insecure contracts and for those who are working variable hours in precarious situations. all of that is there to prevent the exploitation of workers. i’d say to employers that it is in their interest to ensure that their workers are committed to their job and to their employment and that, in turn, will create loyalty. we know well that if you exploit workers, you will not get committed workers in that area. but i’d also say to all of us who are consumers as well, and i know a colleague here earlier in the chamber mentioned a particular fast food chain, we have a voice to speak with if we are not content with the way those workers have been treated with regard to the unpredictability of their hours. the fast food chains can certainly predict their hours. they know their hours of opening, so they can certainly give more certainty in that area. i think as consumers we should use our voices as well because the world of work is changing, but at the same time, as consumers we will race to the bottom of the lowest price, but yet we want the best of standards, and we’re willing to buy online and neglect local retailers. i think we all have to play a role in this, but the most important thing is that we do recognise that workers are being exploited and can be exploited, and we need to work together to ensure that adequate protection is put in place to prevent precarious work, particularly zero—hours contracts, which are really giving our workers across the eu no certainty in terms of social commitments or commitments to their families.
we take note of your comments and we also have a point of order from ms garcía pérez.
the judgment has just been made as you say, and will be studied.
that concludes the points of order. i would respectfully suggest that this issue is dealt with in committee. i think that is the appropriate place first.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i am sorry. that is not appropriate at this time.
that concludes the vote.
the president, who shall be voting on the report, shall be informed of the outcome. i think the connecting europe facility is a wonderful facility, connecting people, making it easier to take goods right across the european union. recently i co-hosted with shannon foynes port a seminar in limerick, where we looked at the possibilities, especially for ireland, post-brexit, because we are too dependent on the land bridge, and it was clear there that there is huge potential in all our ports in ireland to connect directly with europe. indeed the connecting europe facility is under utilised in the maritime sector; only 4% of the funds go for maritime. so that's something i think that needs to be addressed as we go forward because it's a great opportunity to take trucks and travel off the road, put them on the sea and obviously reduce emissions and also of course, where ireland is concerned, connect us to post-brexit europe.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
madam president, i am sorry about the decision. i think this is an extremely important topic and the police have expressed their outrage at some of the events that have been reported in recent times. it has been a very bad time for charities in general. i know that in my own country there were a number of scandals relating to financial misappropriation, where various charities, who had the confidence of the public, were collecting money and then it was seen not to be used for the proper purposes. they were giving themselves some very big wages, employing family members and were not 100% accountable. then, as was pointed out here by members of the house and the commissioner, the worst situation was where aid organisations which are very reputable and have a highly-valued reputation were seen to be doing the exact opposite to helping people and were exploiting them. i welcome the commissioner’s guarantees that there be zero tolerance for this, and i think that is the key. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much, mr mamikins. indeed, but, as i said, even in ireland we had some scandals – mainly financial – and it really rocked genuine charities, because the funding for many of them, who would do wonderful work, went way down accordingly. i think the same will happen with the likes of oxfam and many more unless we can actually prove and show people here in the european parliament that we are on top of our game, that we know what is happening with the funding, and that, where there are any exploitative measures being been taken, that we have zero tolerance. i trust the commission to do that.
madam president, the idea of honouring the international day of the family goes back to 1993. i think it is a very good one, but of course we perhaps have a different interpretation of family now than we might have had a number of years ago. ms miranda is right that, regardless of their composition, given different situations, all families are very important, and the more stable they are, the more stable society is. this year’s theme was ‘family and inclusive society’. i think that was a very good theme, because we do need to do more in terms of being more inclusive and welcoming in modern society. you start with the family, and that is very important. as well as that, it is often the family that is the place that you go to for real care and compassion in times of true struggle and, without a stable family, it can be very difficult to deal with issues like that. i also think that the social, economic and demographic issues are to be considered, and i know that in my own country the emphasis would have to be on mental health and homelessness. these issues are being dealt with in relation to the family and, indeed, individuals. finally, i just want to say that last year’s theme was finding a work-life balance. in some respects i suppose that we politicians are the worst people to talk about that, because being away from home, as meps, and spending weekends doing our work, without a supporting family behind us – an understanding family – we just couldn’t continue. so we can be very grateful for all our families, no matter what their composition is. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, indeed we have had a tradition of large families in the past: i know that from my own background in gaelic athletic association football and hurling. some families almost made up the entire team: you would have four, five or six from the one family playing in the team. but the trend in modern life, as in all advancing economies, is that the families tend to be a smaller now. thankfully, i have four children myself: two boys and two girls – a good balance. i am very happy with them, i hope they are happy with me, even though they don’t see me often enough.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i want to congratulate my colleague, mr werner langen, for his report. it is a very sensible approach and there is strong support in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for this report. in particular, the rapporteur’s proposal to extend the intra-group exemption to a global basis and to introduce full, single-sided reporting for non-financial corporations is welcomed. this will significantly reduce costs for most small companies, which can then be reinvested in the real economy. when the commission published their proposal last may, the idea was to eliminate disproportionate costs and burdens on small companies and to simplify rules without compromising financial stability. the parliament has taken this approach and has stuck to the argument produced by the commission. by applying single—sided reporting as opposed to the current dual-sided regime, it would bring europe in line with other jurisdictions and make the eu more attractive destination for corporate treasury functions, which is an important aspect. parliament’s position reduces the proposed three-plus—two—year exemption for pension funds to comply with the clearing obligations to two—plus—one—year exemption, with very small pension funds exempted. i understand the compromises that were reached on behalf of my colleague and his colleagues in econ, but at the end of the day we do need to be careful about this. whether european pension funds will be able to comply with the requirements over a very short period of time is a serious issue. i was the rapporteur for the iorp ii directive; i am aware that pension funds are fundamentally different to other financial entities when it comes to clearing, as they have a long—term investment profile and low liquidity needs. we really need to be sure that pension funds will be able to manage a new clearing obligation in such a short space of time, especially given the difficult position that many pension funds find themselves in right now with the low interest rate environment and the difficulty of making returns for existing members and beneficiaries. we have to find a solution to this; i like the idea of a round table. the exemption cannot continue forever but we need to be cautious in how we respond to the pension issue.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, as we all know – and indeed as the g20 leaders themselves acknowledged in pittsburgh – derivatives were at the very heart of the global financial crisis. when we’re talking about the regulation of a market worth more than usd 500 trillion, we need to get it right. emir, the post-crisis framework for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, has its problems certainly, but it is a crucial instrument for ensuring financial stability. this review proposal bends over backwards in my view to meet the demands of the industry, an industry – let’s not forget – that just a decade ago brought our economies and societies to the brink of collapse. i share the concerns that this move reflects a more general effort by this house to roll back and unpick the financial regulations put in place after the crisis. the weakening of regulations may be targeted at the smaller market participants, but the nature of this market is that it is a chain of interdependencies that promotes risk volatility. we have a responsibility as legislators to ensure that the derivatives industry is bound by strict and high standard regulations on transparency, reporting and clearing, and this parliament, i fear, is failing to meet that responsibility with the report in front of us.
mr president, i’m glad i made it, just in from strasbourg, three and a half hours on the bus, so it’s good to make my speaking time. i am pleased to support this proposal, which looks to put in place an eu-wide system for monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions and fuel consumption for manufacturers’ heavy-duty vehicles, or hgvs. as part of this mandatory system, the findings would be cross-checked against new vehicle registration data as provided by member states. at present, hgvs account for approximately a quarter of the eu’s co2 emissions from road transport – a very high sum. it is anticipated that this will increase significantly, along with growing levels of road transport in the coming years, unfortunately. thus it is imperative that we take action as soon as possible to ensure a sizeable reduction in new hgv co2 emissions in the 2020-2030 period. the primary aspects of the proposal include introducing administrative fines where there is infringement in clearly-defined cases; making public certain data reported under the regulation, including air drag value in a range format; provisions to monitor and report results of on-road verification tests; measures to verify and correct other measures adopted by implementing acts. these are all important inclusions, and i think they will certainly help the situation. i am encouraged by this proposal and the opportunities it will create, as well as enabling fleet buyers to make more informed purchase decisions in order to boost competition between manufacturers and stimulate fuel efficiency and lower emissions in the freight sector. we depend heavily on innovation to sufficiently reduce our transport emissions, and i am certain there is a great potential to make significant strides forward in this regard. we will need to make real cuts in transport by 2030 if we are to comply with the commitments on the recently adopted effort-sharing regulation, and as rapporteur for the renewable energy file which we are completing, hopefully, this week, i think this is a positive step.
mr president, first i would like to congratulate the commissioner for his good work in this area. it is obviously crucial for us. as everybody knows, education is the way to the future and, if we want to be competitive in europe, we will have the highest standard of education in the world. as some speakers have said, we have to start with the young, but above all we must start with teachers. as a former teacher myself, i realise how important teaching is. one area where we need to put more emphasis is allowing teachers to have access to continuing professional development (cpd). there is not enough opportunity for them to do that on a professional basis, as distinct from a voluntary basis, and that will make a huge difference. as well as that, we have been putting emphasis in ireland on the stem subjects in recent times, and that needs to continue. we especially need to encourage girls into the stem subjects, and bodies like the voluntary group, coderdojo, are doing tremendous work to encourage people at a very young age with skills in that area to develop them. so education is the way to the future. the more we can do, the better.
madam president, i think this is a vital sector and it had great promise, as has been said by the rapporteur, until recently, when some issues rose and people aren’t as enthusiastic about it now. but the facts are that the growing demand for fish, both in europe and worldwide, cannot be met by naturally-produced fish. in fact in some cases, the stock is going down, and that has to be managed properly. so aquaculture, managed properly and properly efficient, has a huge role to play. i’ve spoken to people in my own constituency and they’re concerned about lice in relation to aquaculture and its effect on other fish and so forth. so innovation and research has to be done, and then, as a result of that, we should be able to move, to have far more aquaculture than we have now, and that would help to meet the demand that’s there without impacting on other fish resources.
the uachtaráin, has made it difficult for us to change the laws and education systems in éirinn and we have to change the rules. is léir nach bhfuil an rialtas ag tabhairt tosaíocht give tooine óga regarding the hoideachas. we made children without support available to them, children with special needs, children with learning difficulties and children with disabilities, what kind of future is in store for them? the film is going to be released in august and will allow qualified teachers to deal with the laws. they are not in a position to provide the necessary support for the teaching staff, nor are they in a position to provide the students with the necessary teaching qualifications. there are no irish speakers and there is no real damage to the language. if we face the right investment in education systems, it will cost much more in the future than it will in the present, and we need to do the right investment in the future to make sure that the future is available to future students.
madam president, this month we mark lgbt pride, an important reminder of the constant struggles of the lgbt+ community. pride is a time for solidarity against discrimination and against violence, an assertion of dignity and equality rights of lgbt persons. it is a celebration, but most importantly, pride is political and pride is protest. pride should not be a marketing opportunity for multinationals. we cannot afford to have it trivialised and commercialised, especially not when we still have so much unfinished work to do for the lgbt+ community. trans people suffer from the highest rates of repetitive violence and hate motivated crimes. ireland has the second highest prevalence in the eu of hate motivated violence against trans people. between 2014 and 2016, 62 transgender hate crimes took place on the island of ireland. so this year, let’s not celebrate pride by patting ourselves on the back for marriage equality. let’s make pride the political struggle it ought to be. instead of visibility of billion dollar social media networks, let’s have visibility of trans identities.
ms atkinson, you are going too fast.
could i just ask – can you listen? because i think we can both speak english, so we can be very clear. what i was trying to do was help you communicate. you are going far too fast for the interpreters.
ok, let’s calm down. could i ask you, madam, to sit down, with respect, and could i just say to you, as somebody who speaks very clear english: in this chamber we are all elected by citizens, and the one remark that i had some concern about was your opening line, where you said ‘you lot’. because, as far as i am concerned, we are all elected by citizens to represent our citizens’ many points of view. thank you for your contribution. colleagues, please, there’s no need for this. stay calm. madam is leaving the chamber. thank you and good morning.
apologies to mr jurek: you had indicated during the speaking time, so you have the floor for a point of order.
mr jurek, thank you for your point. the question allowed the speaker, mr woolfe, to respond, and he did so in due time. so i think we had quite a frank exchange, but thank you for your point.
mr president, there’s a lot of talk about borders this morning in this debate, and – rightly so – around migration. i want to talk about a border that isn’t a border, much closer to my home in the republic of ireland, as it borders invisibly with northern ireland. i have to say that, while i welcome a paper from the united kingdom on their proposals for a temporary customs arrangement, it is, to say the least of it, insufficient and incomplete, and i am really troubled that time is marching on. but we have to have faith in politics, and we will watch the uk house of commons with great interest this week. i listened very carefully to the exchanges on ms dodds, and can i say to her very directly: there is no disrespect to her position; there is no annexation of northern ireland; and indeed to martina anderson, both of whom have left this chamber: could they please sit down in an assembly in northern ireland and properly represent the people of northern ireland, so that their voices can be heard in this vital debate?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i very much welcome this debate ahead of the june summit on the economic and monetary union (emu) package. despite all of the pain of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, europe has come back strongly. we are living through a jobs-rich recovery. that success is based on prudent budgeting, new investment, structural reforms and a commitment to stick to the rules of the fiscal compact. firstly, it is absolutely useless dreaming up new ideas if we’re not delivering on what we said we would do already. let us deliver on our existing commitments. secondly, if you’re a small, big or medium-sized country, the rules apply to everyone. and thirdly, whatever change is proposed, it must be an inclusive format. that means, from our perspective, no euro-area parliament, no railroading of small or indeed any member states. so where do we go from now? i see five areas of potential improvement. i think we need to complete the banking union, to deliver on the european deposit insurance scheme (edis). that means risk-sharing and risk reduction must go hand in hand. it means a credible resolution of the npl problem. secondly, europe must be open for business, which means more trade deals, delivering on the potential of the single market economy and freeing the eu economy of protectionism. we also need a functioning capital markets union for new finance, alongside juncker’s / the efsi plan. turning the esm into a fully-fledged european monetary fund makes sense, but it needs to be accountable to this parliament. we also need to be prepared to reform and turn the european budget – the multiannual financial framework (mff) – into an instrument of innovation and growth. could we do the impossible, colleagues? that is, agree a better budget by the time of the next european parliament elections. we need to – it would send out a powerful signal from this house, were we to obtain that agreement. finally, i hope that once and for all, the idea of having an eu finance minister is dropped. it is a crazy proposal. it sends out the wrong message to national parliaments, to eu citizens. it does not have national public support. it is a weapon of euroscepticism. it is time that it was finally discarded from the technocratic dreamworld from where it came.
mr president, i will begin at the end – that is, the end of commissioner dombrovskis’ speech. his final words to us today were that the eu must provide better living and social standards for our citizens; that is what matters. indeed, that is what matters, and we must take measures to ensure that happens, because rarely do we discuss the social and living standards of our citizens when we talk about high finance. so what can be done? number one: the eu banking union must encompass a european deposit insurance scheme that would be powerful for our citizens. the commissioner also referred to the eu invest fund, and i am pleased to say that i have been appointed rapporteur for that, and i look forward to working with the commissioner and others to ensure that it benefits especially the smaller businesses right across the european union. i also want to mention a few points that my colleague brian hayes mentioned. we do not need a european finance minister. indeed, the word ‘minister’ is almost an exclusive competence for member states at this stage, and it is almost an usurpation of their right to be talking about a minister at european level. we do not want a eurozone parliament. there is one parliament – this is it. and we must agree the mff before the next elections. finally, i want to say that the rules must apply to all, and it would be a good idea if we made it clear to populists when they are going for election what the consequences are for their citizens’ standards of living if they break the fiscal rules. that might help to fight populism.
the uachtaráin, with the support of the government, will continue to support the development of the country. it shows that there is a difference between fishing and fishing. the commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. be better prepared to be talking about air that gives you a tightrope! it's so hard to talk when you're being so mean. however, i welcome the commission's call for funds to be invested in the tourism and fishing sectors to help them develop and should be made available to the public. it is without doubt necessary to go to the hospital about the bad-thionchar that would have been in the new system because of the bad-thing that would have been in the new system, and that would have been the non-dhuchasacha species that would have been in the new system, and that would have been the slatiascairí that would have been in the new system.
mr president, i support my colleague who has just spoken about the need for regulation. i think the question is: will it be effective? i know that those engaged in recreational fisheries are concerned also that the regulation we bring in will work for them. while i have the floor in my support for this report, there is a huge voluntary effort amongst fishermen and -women, both at sea and inland, who look after our resources on a voluntary basis, who teach and encourage young people into the skill and hobby of fishing. lastly, those whom i know who enjoy recreational fishing tend to have a good disposition, so it does a great deal for the wellbeing of those who engage in this activity. we want it to be sustainable, we wanted it to continue. so if we are regulating (and we are), let’s be effective in how we do it.
mr president, thanks to two very excellent programmes, i get to spend a lot of time in schools. one of them is run nationally in ireland, and it is called the blue star programme for primary school children. it does an exceptional job in telling and teaching children about culture, heritage and history, and when i go into schools i am invigorated by the little ones telling me back what they are learning, and they love it. i recommend it to you, and i will spread the word. and thank you to the wonderful teachers who promote this programme. the second is our own programme: the ambassador school programme for secondary level pupils, and here again, the tremendous engagement in those schools that are part of this programme is just to behold. it roots out cynicism and ignorance about the european union, and promotes an absolutely wonderful ideal for europe, which we have yet to attain. while i still have the floor for four seconds, i would say to our teachers and schools around europe that we do value the work you do and we want to work more closely with you.
colleagues, just not for now, please don’t heckle. i think ms mogherini has finished her intervention. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 june 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mircea paşcu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu—nato relations (2017/2276(ini)) (a8—0188/2018).
thank you, madam vice—president. i perhaps should have spotted that too so i don’t think we are too concerned.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 june 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by jarosław wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to ukraine (com(2018)0127 – c8-0108/2018 – 2018/0058(cod)) (a8—0183/2018).
mr president. i just want to say very clearly that if you ever have listened to a victim of domestic violence recalling their experience, you would have no doubt of the importance of this issue. and the tragedy is that in our so-called developed world, domestic violence is everywhere. and this is a frightening reality for women and indeed their children. my country, ireland, has signed the istanbul convention but has not ratified it yet; that needs to be done. i support the call made here in this debate on this very sensitive issue. it is a shocking sight and a shocking reality. i listened very recently to a woman describe the circumstances of her experience and how difficult it was for her to extract herself from that. this house can only support this initiative absolutely.
in writing. – 13 june marks one year from the signing of the istanbul convention by the eu. it is sad for me to say that my own country, ireland, has yet to ratify this convention. in ireland today, some 15% of women have experienced abusive behaviour from a partner at some point, according to national statistics, while two out of five people know someone who has experienced domestic violence. today, parliament is sending a very strong political message on its commitment to end violence against women and girls, and i urge the minister to sign the istanbul convention, and ensure its immediate ratification and implementation once this decision is made.
mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister rutte to the european parliament. prime minister, i think if you were to answer all our questions, you’d be here for the next week, so can i give you just one reflection, as an irish colleague? you said earlier that you need the support of the european parliament. can i say to you that the european parliament and the pro-european forces in the european parliament need the support of the european council to get more of europe working? there is a majority in this house for an ambitious european project. we come from the centre right and the centre left, from the centre ground, and we represent the majority of european citizens who are ambitious and want the european project to succeed across the 500 million citizens. that’s the message i want you to bring back to the european council: that, if you want our support, we look for your support as well. on the eu budget, can i ask you this? let’s be ambitious for a change. let’s do something differently for a change. let’s agree the eu budget before next year. that would send out a strong message that we are serious about reform, serious about new contributions and serious about making sure that europe works.
the president welcomed this report and will certainly vote in favour of it, as there are many things that will be done for us in the future. mr president, the proposals themselves help to build the foundations of a separate economy at regional and local level, with an investment potential of eur 5.5 billion. this policy creates great potential for new forms of employment where it is needed most. it is important that waste is dealt with at local level. this is for the best insights which are available to local challenges and opportunities while creating local value and sustainable jobs and indeed, we have plenty of waste to be utilising. as rapporteur for the plastics directive in the committee on fisheries, i think our proposal will help to reduce the amount of waste plastic over the years and, indeed, eliminate it. indeed, also as rapporteur for the renewable energy directive, i think again our proposals to increase sustainable and local energy production will help in this aim.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte gan dabht roimh an díbát se mar ceapaim gur maith an rud is aitheantas a thabhairt to give n-équality in the language. the debate was continued in the right to vote in the european parliament and in the house in ireland. for example, there are many real estate owners who are failing to provide services to their families, and many teachers are failing to support them, especially those living in the ghaeltacht. the agreement between the chill rímhinn and the breataine scannalach on the implementation of the act in gaeilge was signed on 29 august. it is important that we are strong in our rights to our language and our human rights and that we give them our lives. our language is important, we cannot give it any more identity, we cannot give it any more meaning, we cannot give it any more meaning, we cannot give it any more culture. but i think it's important that we have a hard time talking about the language issue, of course: there are difficulties in the administration of the parliament, and i'm talking about the laws in the parliament that are being discussed, and we're listening to the language, we're listening to the language, we're listening to the language, we're listening to the rights of the people, and we're talking about the right to operate. beirigí bua, we will be together again.
mr president, and good morning, commissioner arias cañete. we were together from 6 o’clock yesterday evening until 4 o’clock this morning as we were finalising the renewable energy file, and it is good to see you back here. we must both be running on renewable energy. maidir leis an gcás seo, ba mhaith liom a rá ar dtús, mar a dúirt an feisire campbell bannerman, tá gaol cairdiúil againn leis an tír seo, bairéin, agus caithfimid aitheantas a thabhairt don dul chun cinn atá déanta maidir leis na saoránaigh i gcoitinne chun a saol a fheabhsú. ach ag an am céanna, ní hé sin le rá gur cheart dúinn súil dhall a thabhairt ar na droch-rudaí atá ag tarlu sa tír, go háirithe mar a bhaineann le nabeel rajab. chaith sé bliain i bpríosún ag fanacht lena thriail a cuireadh ar ceall fiche uair. deirtear anois go bhfuil sé ina chillín ar feadh trí uair an chloig is fiche gach uile lá. níl sé seo féaráilte in aon chor agus is ceart dúinn é sin a thaispeáint dóibh agus gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun é a ligean saor.
the president shall decide on the matter in parliament as soon as it is deemed necessary and shall decide on the matter in the light of the opinion of the european parliament. we're talking about your million people who don't really have a clue. there is a much better life than in the fiáine hainmhithe back in the deep sea than in the rohingya. i've been in every kind of pain - physical pain, sexual pain - i've been in the camp in the daytime, and i've been in pain, and i've been sick, and i've been in pain. august is not the time to give them up. and i told my friend zeller that i'd be happy to work with him, especially with the chinese and the united nations, to help them. and especially, is truamhéalach ar fad go bhfuil an méid without children agus gan a ndóthain le n-ithe acu, nach bhfuil seans acu oideachas to fháil agus nach bhfuil aon futur ann i ndáiríre dóibh. if we take leadership on this issue, if we take it to china, and if we make laws at the united nations to improve this issue and fix it as soon as possible, then we will be facing a situation that no one else is facing.
the president, having voted against the report, is likely to go along with the majority of the amendments. making laws in the united nations is a human right and should be respected - one of the rights that should be respected by every person in the world. i think we've made it clear that people are smart and they're more interested in the cultural world. and yet, many of the cultural traditions of the world are valuable to the rich, and they were not so rich when they were under the laws of the land. for example, according to eurostat, 25% of people go to the cinema because they have no money; 22% go to the cinema because they have no money; 20% go to the cinema; 14% go to the ballet. and i talked to tuasal palmer about the course. therefore, there is a great deal of hair in this report.
madam president, i fully support this proposal to create a standard framework for professional qualification requirements across the european union. by creating a pan-european framework, it will make it much easier for professional qualifications awarded by one member state to be recognised in another member state, thus creating free movement across the european union. it is my opinion that this introduction will strengthen the reliability, transparency and compatibility of professional requirements between member states across the union. a proportionality test is important to gain insight into the effect that this new regulation could have in professions across the european union. i support this introduction, as it is fundamental that we must safeguard the professions and those who have undertaken an enormous amount of work to reach their qualification. although i agree that an expansion of this great single market is important, and indeed desirable, i also understand it must be done in a measured and sensible manner, and then we will do it right.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the collection of statistics is important if we are to plan for a better common agricultural policy, and therefore this proposal is to be welcomed. i am especially pleased that our own priorities have been included in the final outcome, and will form part of the new service, specifically in relation to farm ownership models, information on farm transfers and the age profile of our farming community. of course, statistics are only as useful as the purpose they are put to. we have known for years, for example, that we have a serious problem in attracting young people into farming. we have known for years that there is a massive disparity in the cap payment levels that go to the richest farm interests in comparison to most farmers, and we have also known for years that peripheral farmers face greater obstacles than most. yet this information has not been sufficiently acted upon and the problems have got worse. so, as we will now have an improved information-gathering system in place, it must be matched with improved reactions to the issues which those statistics expose.
madam president, i was delighted with this debate this evening because all sides of the house emphasised the absolute horror of forced marriages. only yesterday i was reading about an 11-year-old girl who was forced to marry a 51-year-old man. and when you think of the fact that, even for ourselves, if we have to spend half an hour or an hour with people we do not get on well with, it can be trying, can you imagine what it is like for a young girl forced, as meps mentioned, to become an adult almost overnight and, at the same time, only a child? it’s horrible and it’s a cultural, religious – call it what you like – phenomenon that has been going on for too long. we really have to ensure, first of all, that we end any such practices that may be happening in europe, and do everything we can to end them internationally, because this is an absolute scandal in the modern era. every child is entitled to a life and every girl should be able to grow up and marry in her own time.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, climate change does not need simply to be on the international agenda. it needs to be the agenda. with the us trump withdrawal from the paris agreement, the eu and member states must lead by example. they must be the source of strong ambition and fully implement climate policy in their own countries to achieve both the paris and eu targets. i’m glad that this report acknowledges that a strong external leadership role requires full implementation of ambitious climate policy within the eu, given that countries like ireland are miserably off track on reaching eu climate targets. climate change is not some abstract, apocalyptic policy area. it is a present-day reality, affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of people worldwide. we do need an international legal definition of climate refugee and maybe those who are so vocal against refugees would better serve their agenda by being the most ambitious on climate change. the time for excuses is over. we need a human-rights based climate policy and we need legislators to lead.
madam president, first of all, compliments to arne lietz and jo leinen, my good friend, on their good work in the climate diplomacy proposals. having represented the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on the paris agreement, cop 21, and subsequently in marrakech, cop 22, i think it was refreshing and uplifting for all of us that we did get a global agreement, hopefully to eliminate climate change and global warming. now we have to implement it and indeed i think we can be very pleased with the work we have done in the whole clean energy package. i was the rapporteur for parliament on the renewable energy file. we have agreed on a 32% target and a 32.5% target for energy efficiency, and i think europe can certainly say that it is putting its own house in order and giving leadership to the rest of the world, on which it is to be complimented. we have, of course, a duty to help the third countries in particular. i was pleased that commissioner arias cañete, who has been so active in this area throughout his commissionership, pointed out the role we are playing in terms of giving finance, but we also have to share perspectives and knowledge not just with third countries, but also the industrialised world, because this is a global problem. finally, i just want to say that ms boylan referred to ireland and i would agree that, up until now, we haven’t been very good, but our taoiseach, leo varadkar, was here in january. he said that we were laggards in the past, but we are not going to be in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i would like to ask my fellow irish mep, mr kelly, if he shares the same vision of climate diplomacy as his party in the irish government, because it is a type of climate policy that actually goes into international negotiations and argues for loopholes to dilute the laws. it’s the type of climate diplomacy that climate action network referred to as playing a negative role in the eu 2030 legislation. so is that the type of climate diplomacy that you and leo varadkar advocate?
blue-card answer. – that’s a very negative view of ireland. as i said, we admit – and we weren’t in government, only for the last couple of years – that ireland hasn’t played its part in reaching its 2020 targets, but that is going to change. indeed, we are right now drawing up proposals to ensure that we will lead the way, especially in reaching our 2030 targets, and also play our role internationally, cooperating with the commission in putting these climate diplomacy proposals into operation internationally. ireland will not be found wanting, and i am very pleased to tell ms boylan that.
mr president, i’d like to start by offering my solidarity to the interpreters, without whom we couldn’t do our jobs. but, tonight, water is a highly political topic and, after all, water is life. in 2014, 1.9 million people from across the eu signed the ‘right2water’ european citizens’ initiative. it called for water to be recognised as a human right. this initiative resulted in a deeply disappointing but hardly surprising response from the commission. in a box-ticking exercise, they have tried to slip a small reference to access to water into the recast of the drinking water directive, but immediately the right-wing forces are doing their best to delete even this small reference. ireland’s own environment minister was not found wanting either: at last week’s european environment council meeting, in a bizarre intervention, he said he supports the right to water in principle but doesn’t wanted it included in eu directives. does he not understand that this is the central demand of the right2water citizens’ initiative? people specifically want an eu reference because it is the very same eu commission pushing the privatisation agenda. the irish right2water movement is watching you, minister naughten and they won’t forget this betrayal.
prime minister borissov, thank you, and i think the applause reflects our appreciation of the work of the bulgarian presidency. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
there is a request for a blue-card question. however, because the debate started late and is over-running, i am going to try and take comments at the end via ‘catch the eye’, so no blue cards.
the president, who shall take part in the debate on the laws on this subject, shall be elected by the assembly on the same day. of course, it is an important part of the paris climate agreement 2015 to take action to reduce carbon emissions. but of course, it's harder than in rich countries, where we're not allowed to eat, than in rich countries. therefore, it is important to know how to help people in rich countries without having to worry about the many people who are here. and beyond that, it is important to continue to lead the union and because of the progress we have made on energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy efficiency laws, we have to do more. therefore without caithfimid be an-satisfied.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for outlining the urgency surrounding this eu mobility package. we have three files here from the committee on transport and they need to be taken and looked at as a whole package. we can’t pick pieces from one or the other. as has been said, international transport, by its nature, is international and a highly mobile workers’ posting is not suitable to workers, as has been outlined by many colleagues here working in the transport sector. i think we should, all of us, look at the reasons why and the work that went into it in the committee in getting to the point of these compromises. they were not easily attained. we have a debate here between east and west, and peripheral and central europe. but the single market should allow all members access to that market, regardless of their geographical placement or regardless of the level of wages that they pay in their country. i’d ask everybody here to look at the compromises that have been won in the committee on transport by a significant majority there and vote to support those tomorrow.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, my thanks to uasal viotti and his team for the work they have done. the 2019 budget should be more robust and address the concerns of citizens across europe. we're gonna have to lease her out. first of all, we want to preserve a civilised european union. we believe that it is better to be a citizen, to be a soldier, to be a soldier than to be a soldier. we are asking institutions and bodies in third countries that are developing military technology to keep their funding of research under horizon. i welcome the report on the european solidarity with refugees, and i think that the bhaile átha cliath regulation should be reviewed. however, i am against the way the police are being displaced and the security of citizens is being threatened, and there is no reason to be afraid of the military forces. we should be more concerned about economic security and about improving the world. we are looking for a real support from the fbmanna; it is called an gheilleagair iad. it is a financial instrument of the efsi, designed to help the fbmanna, access to finance, and implement the most important part of the public money management using the capital in the bank. we have taken the opportunity to encourage more farmers and fishermen to join the eu, which is governed by economic and social laws. and we're trying to go ahead with the work plan to get the hard disk now, so we can get the hard disk now. and i'm hoping that we can get out of that.
mr president, obviously the budget is vital because without money, you can’t do too much at european level, and the more we can do at european level in an added-value sense the better it is for our citizens. i agree with the points made by the commissioner himself in relation to the youth employment scheme. employment has picked up across europe pretty well but there are black spots, especially in relation to youth, and if we could hone in on those areas this year and next year, and show progress, we would be doing a lot for the whole european project. also, the erasmus+ programme has been mentioned. again, that’s good for young people. that has to be encouraged. an area i am very much involved in myself is the whole area of climate change. we have now, more or less, almost completed the clean energy package and therefore we need to allocate money to make sure that we live up to our targets and our commitments in relation to paris and the cop agreements there. so, there is a lot to be done and if the commissioner does it i think he’d be entitled to spend a few shillings on a glass of champagne for himself. well done.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, we’re told the commission’s focus in this proposal is as follows: simplification for recipients of eu funds, cross-reliance on audit assessment for authorisation, more flexible budget management and simpler and leaner eu administration. all very laudable, but also all very laughable, when you consider point two – the cross-reliance on audit, etcetera. i have said this already in this chamber and i’ll say it again now, and i’ll keep saying it until it gets changed: the annual audit of the entire commission budget by the european court of auditors is seriously flawed. it takes a correction, which it knows has been applied only in certain areas of the budget, areas where the commission and various member states had made corrections from their own earlier audits, and it applies that percentage correction across the entire commission budget, thus presenting a flawed and false figure in the final accounts. this must be changed. commissioner, you can fool some people, but if you drill into it you won’t fool the lot of us – and you have been caught out.
madam president, i found this an interesting topic because i am not involved in the committee on budgets, but at the same time we all know that without money you cannot do much and i think that great compliments are due to the commissioner and especially the joint rapporteurs: ingeborg gräßle and richard ashworth. it was interesting that they put the emphasis on simplification. that is something that this commission has been emphasising from the beginning, and they have made much progress in that regard, without – as the commissioner pointed out – compromising in relation to making it easier for people to make fraudulent use of our funds. that would be a disaster. so, richard said he was happy, and if richard is happy, i am happy. the only point i would make is that when you see meps like richard, it is sad that they will be leaving the european parliament before a year is out because of brexit. finally, he also referenced efsi and structural funds and as rapporteur for investeu, i will be taking his points there on board in relation to that.
madam president, i think a pragmatic approach is needed for the us privacy shield and the framework that it provides for the safe transfer of data between the eu and us companies. we also have to ensure that the eu reaps the maximum benefits from the privacy shield and that our citizens’ data is protected efficiently. indeed, there are outstanding issues within the framework that need to be addressed in order to ensure its success; i accept that. however, revoking the privacy shield is not a solution. companies’ compliance with their obligations must be monitored more effectively and frequent searches will be necessary to deal with companies that may make false claims regarding their involvement in the framework. significantly, it enables european smes to work with their us trade partners, without cumbersome negotiations on data transfer for their businesses. the privacy shield cuts administrative burdens hugely for nearly 3 000 companies already certified. as ppe negotiator on the general data protection regulation (gdpr) for the committee on industry, research and energy, i am very conscious of the seriousness of protecting citizens’ personal data and companies’ compliance with data protection—related obligations. the privacy shield includes sanctions to effectively deal with violations by participating companies including, if necessary, their removal from the privacy shield list, which will have a deterrent effect for participant companies. therefore, i do not agree with those who say that we should suspend the privacy shield. i think the commissioner and colleagues such as mr voss and mr dalton have said this would be a mistake. i agree with them. efforts should be focused on improved monitoring of compliance within the framework, rather than suspending the deal altogether and definitely we should try that before we talk about suspension. after all, it took a long time to get safe harbour replaced by the privacy shield. to throw the privacy shield out now would not be a good idea.
madam president, the three leading speakers here this evening on behalf of the institutions were three ladies, and they gave us a very good overview of this problem with the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca). also complements to the committee on petitions (peti), who do such wonderful work, for highlighting this issue. my first reaction was that, if the shoe was on the other foot and it was european countries demanding tax from ‘accidental’ europeans in the united states, president trump would be up all night tweeting about it and threatening fire and brimstone upon us. we need to look at it from that point of view and take action. (applause) secondly, i think what my colleague, ms wikström, said: an impact assessment needs to be done to establish the extent of this, and to find out what actually is happening in the greatest detail. also, you mentioned the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which has come in in may. is this in breach of it? if it is, it has to stop, because i think we have to ensure that our citizens are protected from fatca being applied by the fat cats of the american revenue commissioners.
the president, in accordance with the laws and regulations in force, is entitled to take into account the situation in somalia, which is in fact a matter of concern to him. it is therefore important that we take into account the situation in the country and the situation in the country as a whole. and when he said, "this is what al shabaab is doing", he said, "i'm afraid that everything will be taken away from somalia and they'll be killed". and of course, when you're a camel in a foreign country, it's hard to be a camel in the same country. the eu has pledged €120 million to somalia to help them fight hunger by helping them to fight against unfair laws in somalia. they're trying to bring us into the world without a chance for human rights to be respected.
mr president, a political, human rights and humanitarian crisis has plagued burundi since the re-election for a third term of their president in 2015. thousands have been killed, thousands have fled the country, thousands are displaced and millions are in need of humanitarian assistance. the recent constitutional changes voted for in the 2018 referendum include, for example, expanding presidential powers and prohibiting political parties with less than 5% of the vote from participating in government. this is a great threat to the peace and reconciliation that burundi has been working towards. violence has significantly increased – not surprisingly, i suppose – as a result of this referendum campaign and the ensuing result. the repression of views is ever increasing. many human rights defenders have been detained – some for as long as 32 years – and this is all happening as we speak. i think it is right that we should raise our concerns here in parliament and hopefully help to bring about a resolution.
mr president, i welcome this report, which has prioritised the simplification of rules applicable to the eu budget. the emphasis on results and performances is a welcome move away from focusing on control of costs. i support the retention of the non—profit principle in grants in order to avoid misuse of public money. furthermore, i am in favour of the limitation of trust funds to external actions, and of maintaining the competences of the budgetary authority. the elimination of transfers from structural funds to the european fund for strategic investment (efsi) is also welcome. i am happy to see such a commitment to simple rules for the efsi and efsi funding, which was elaborated on by richard ashworth in last night’s debate. having hosted several events for my constituents in ireland on eu funding and having heard their concerns about a lack of clarity therein, i believe that simplification of these rules is a very positive and important step and will be much appreciated by our constituents.
mr president, i support this report and its recommendations to the council. among others, i believe that the council should actively support the un secretary—general’s three—pillar reform agenda with the aim of making the un system truly coordinated. this would have the effect of making the un more efficient, effective, integrated, transparent and accountable. the world is facing a range of global challenges related to ongoing and emerging conflicts and their consequences, such as climate change and terrorism. i support the recommendations of reduced bureaucracy, simplified procedures and decentralised decision—making within the un. the union’s member states like ireland remain fully committed to multilateralism, global governance and the promotion of un core values as an integral part of the eu’s external policy. every time peace and security are threatened, the eu and the un should play complementary and reinforcing rules. if the eu speaks as one coherent voice, we can be significantly more effective on the global stage within the un, so i fully support this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly i would like to compliment high representative mogherini, and also my colleague and friend marijana petir, for initiating this topic, which i fully support, and reiterate the questions marijana put on this important issue. attacks on women are widespread in pakistan and the severity of these attacks is not to be underestimated. women are continuously treated as second class citizens, and there are severe imbalances which need to be addressed. pakistan’s latest national report on the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, for example, has been overdue since 1 march 2017, so pressure needs to be put on pakistan immediately to start taking the lives of women seriously. furthermore, coming from a very religious country like ireland, with a history of religious conflict unfortunately, i understand the dynamics of religious coexistence and the challenges it creates. however, i absolutely condemn acts of violence in an attempt to coerce another into converting to a different religion, or acts of violence as punishment for someone who is not willing to join that religion. the intersection of religious conflict with gender inequality further exacerbates the traumas women face on a daily basis, and so both of these issues need to be tackled head on. i would also like to reiterate marijana petir’s position regarding gsp+. finally, i want to say that we have on too many occasions had to discuss gender violence and discrimination in this parliament. it needs to stop within and outwith the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner to our discussion this evening. at the outset, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs who worked on this own-initiative report with me over the course of the last number of months, and also to thank my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, who voted for this report in such large numbers just before the summer. i think we have arrived at a good settlement on what is not only a crucially important issue for the european union and its relationship with third countries but also a crucially important issue for financial stability within the european union and in the relationships we have with others. i also want to recognise that this is a forward-looking report, trying to map out, and to achieve a considered view by parliament about, the future equivalence arrangements that should exist in terms of our relationship with third countries. i welcome the fact that the commission in 2017 put forward a review of the equivalence framework. it is right and proper that we should look at our procedures in place, and equally it is right and proper that parliament should have some role in terms of shaping that review and making sure that we have a meaningful input into its final outworkings. we in the european union have worked hard at reducing risk, especially since the crisis: reducing market fragmentation, and also ensuring that we have an international standard in terms of our financial regulation here within the european union. we have international responsibility for ensuring that the international order, in terms of rule-making and rule-taking, is adopted not just within the european union, at an inter-institutional level, but also by all member states of the union. so having a rules-based system sends a strong message to those members of the international community that have a third-country relationship with us about what we expect in that. it is also fair to say that, in trying to reach that international best standard, europe is doing its bit to reduce any of the systemic risks and threats that have been built up over past decades. there is a clear advantage in europe being a standard bearer for good financial regulation globally and that is something we always need to keep in mind when talking about this issue. we also need to recognise that the existing equivalence regime is really a technical regime in which the commission has extraordinary power, and we need to recognise that, in many cases, the commission gets those decisions right on case-by-case deliberation of the issues that come before it, and on a file-by-file basis. but that’s not to say that the framework cannot be improved – it would be a ridiculous position if there were no possibility of the regime for equivalence being improved. what we have tried to set out in this report are areas where we can improve the system in the future: areas of greater transparency in the commission’s dealings with parliament; how parliament can assess and analyse some of these decisions; and a monitoring role for parliament, making sure that decisions are taken by way of delegated acts, making sure that parliament is fully aware of the circumstances and the position contained in decisions. i haven’t mentioned brexit because this report is not about brexit, despite the fact that, when we first embarked on the own-initiative report, people were obsessed by brexit. this is about setting our house in order, making sure that we have a system in place for the future, and making sure that system is transparent for all, and applies the best possible international standards in our dealings with third countries.
mr president, i want to raise the issue of the irish humanitarian worker, sean binder, and the syrian rescue swimmer, sarah mardini, who at this moment are sitting in separate greek prisons accused of actions related to their aid work in greece. these two young people have been working on the island of lesbos for the last few months for one of the many grassroots organisations based in southern europe who have had to step into the gap left by the failure of european leaders to provide protection for vulnerable migrants arriving through perilous routes across the mediterranean. this arrest, and others like it, has exposed pervasive efforts to put a chill on civil society volunteers working to prevent deaths at sea and give medical assistance and education to those lucky enough to reach a place they see as safe. sean and sarah, who herself fled the conflict in syria, should not be sitting in cells. they should be lauded for their courage and compassion for their life-saving work. tonight i ask the european parliament to join with me in calling for the immediate release of both sean and sarah from detention while the investigation is still ongoing, and for an urgent political response against the criminalisation of humanitarian workers.
mr president, a few years ago, i was very critical of prime minister tsipras when he appeared before parliament. i said it was time that he stopped giving interviews to all the tv stations and radio stations in europe and showed leadership to his people. i have to say now, prime minister, that you have done that. congratulations. the evidence is there for all to see: tax evasion has been decreased, growth in the economy, the job market improving. you also sensibly let go the showman on the motorbike – the man with all the answers and no solutions, the finance minister, yanis varoufakis. but my question to you is this: from your dealings with the troika and the european institutions in particular, what are your feelings now about them and what reforms would you suggest should be introduced at that level for their dealings with countries like yours and like mine, which are also in the bailout programme, into the future?
mr president, i was very pleased to support this report, and i thank derek vaughan for his good work on it. investment from the eu’s cohesion policy has had a tremendously important and positive impact on the people, local economy and social reality in northern ireland. this is particularly true for disadvantaged urban and rural areas, as well as for cross-community relations. the cohesion policy has been an active contributor to the peace process with investment such as peace and interreg funding playing an effective role in maintaining peace and reconciliation. the peace programme has been of particular significance, with a special focus on building cross-border relations. the eu structural funds should continue to play an effective role in upholding the good friday agreement. the northern irish economy has benefited substantially from eu cohesion policy, and should continue to do so. for example, the european regional development fund has put eur 140 million towards smes. the european rural development fund has likewise helped agri-food businesses. i welcome this report and i voted in favour.
mr president, allow me to begin by thanking prime minister orbán for being here. prime minister, this is not the first time we have discussed in parliament such problems in one of our member states; and the fact that you are here to face the critics deserves some respect. you certainly have courage. that said, i cannot deny that i am concerned, and have been for some time, about what i am hearing and reading in reports from your country. we have unfortunately been forced to discuss the situation in hungary a few times here in parliament; and we are all, at this stage, extremely familiar with the issues: the ‘stop brussels’ campaign and general anti—eu rhetoric that was used in the election campaign earlier this year; the use of an anti-immigrant poster, borrowed from ukip, in the same election campaign; the accusations of limiting the freedom of the press in hungary; and the moves to introduce legislation that could close the central european university in budapest. these are not actions we would associate with a european people’s party head of government and it is disappointing that we are having to discuss these issues with you here today. to me, many of your actions are not in line with the principles and values of our political group. frankly, mr orbán, what i want today are straight answers and responses from you on all of these issues, not generalities like you gave us in your opening speech. my constituents and grassroot members are rightfully bringing these concerns to me about your party’s place alongside mine within the ppe. your answers are keenly awaited.
mr president, i have to say to mr orbán: i am no fan of the european union, but you completely and utterly disgust me. you talk in pejorative terms about how you don’t want your country to turn into a country of migrants. well, you’ll really hate me then, and my children, because both my children’s parents – myself and my wife – were migrants. their four grandparents, nine out of the 10 of their uncles and six out of the six of their aunts. if they, in the countries that they went to, had to face what you’re doing to immigrants, well, it wouldn’t be a good thing: signs put on the doors of people that helped them; punishing educational institutes who support them. yet, still, my wife is a kelly, one of the most common immigrant names. yet, still, we have a kelly in here who describes you as having courage and says how he respects you. i don’t think the flanagans and the kellys and the immigrants of this world would respect you. i’ll say it again: i don’t like the european union but, as far as i’m concerned, you are dirt.
madam president, as we discuss this topic today on the 17th anniversary of 9/11, it brings home clearly to us how the close bond will always be there between the us and the eu, especially in the fight against terrorism and the promotion of peace. my own country has a very close relationship with the united states. forty million americans claim irish heritage. our national holiday, saint patrick’s day, is celebrated all over the states and indeed the irish prime minister, the taoiseach, is welcomed to the white house on the national holiday every year. mr trump has continued with that custom. and while we are disappointed with many of the actions and the statements of president trump, especially in relation to iran, climate change and trade, i think president juncker has shown that when you do go and sit down with him, he might be able to see things slightly differently, because there are a whole pile of businesses in europe that have breathed a great sigh of relief as a result of president juncker and president trump coming to an agreement. so we continue with the good relationship, there will be life after donald trump, the eu-us relationship will continue ad infinitum.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 september 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by mady delvaux and juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on controls on cash entering or leaving the union (com(2016)0825 – c8—0001/2017 – 2016/0413(cod)) (a8-0394/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 september 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by ignazio corrao, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on countering money laundering by criminal law (com(2016)0826 – c8-0534/2016 – 2016/0414(cod)) (a8-0405/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 september 2018.
if i give everyone that leeway i will be in trouble and you will be annoyed with me because votes will run late. so please be strict on your time.
just before you start, mr rangel: it is usually a question on the debate, and this was more a point, but you have 30 seconds to respond.
madam president, mr juncker’s speech lasted 53 minutes and 14 seconds; it was well received, and rightly so. in it, you referred, mr juncker, to the juncker plan, which was so successful in helping us get over the economic recovery that they no longer call it the juncker plan, and as the committee on industry, research and energy rapporteur for its successor investeu, i hope that can be equally successful. i think you also deserve great credit for negotiating with the wayward donald trump, helping to avoid a trade war, and that was much appreciated by businesses across europe, especially in my own country, which relies so much on trade with the us. in mentioning my own country, ireland, i thank you again for expressing total solidarity with ireland, and especially the need to avoid a hard border. i would appeal to you though to accompany that with a financial commitment to help businesses, farmers and smes, which are inevitably going to be affected one way or the other as a consequence of brexit. you quoted the french philosopher, saying he liked things to go together. if that solidarity went together with financial commitment, i would be very pleased, especially before the elections, because we all see that it is easier and easier to win elections by bashing brussels. this would help to prevent that.
the debate is closed. we will have a short recess and votes will begin at 12.30. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i voted in favour of the copyright directive. today was one of the most difficult and complex votes for me, at least. i don’t believe we have the perfect outcome, in fact i’m not even sure there is a perfect solution, but i believe we have established a balance between the rights of creators and a free internet, and we have sent a strong political message that property rights must be enforced on the internet as well as everywhere else. creators, artists, journalists must get fair remuneration for their works that are copyrighted, otherwise we are all complicit in stealing their work. somebody asked a question of a group of us: who here works for nothing? there was silence and that silence was more powerful than any words. we cannot expect our creators to work for nothing and at the same time allow gigantic platforms like facebook and google, who respectively made profits of 16 and 12 billion in 2017 to profit from abusing the copyright works of our creators.
madam president, i agreed with ms in ’t velt when she said that the title of this debate is somewhat ideological. what is needed in a proper pension debate in this parliament is less ideology and more practicality. we have a falling birth rate, we have huge demographic changes, we have life expectancy, thankfully, growing, but we have less money being saved for the purposes of pensions, and we have huge varieties between member states in terms of pension coverage. take the netherlands: about 90% coverage in terms of private pensions and in my own country, ireland, for the private sector, the figure is about 40%, and massive varieties. the only way we are going to get to a better place is with solid policies. the truth of the matter is that for the public sector, as regards their pensions, the best way to protect pillar one pensions into the future is for governments to run surpluses to put money aside so that their pensioners into the future have guarantees with regard to the basic old age pension for people as they get older. we need the private sector as part of this debate. i heard some ideological views from the left that we don’t, but we do. we have a totally underdeveloped personal pension area when it comes to private pensions in europe. the market is currently worth about eur 700 billion. that could double in the next 10 years if we get it right, and that’s about ensuring some certainty for savers, proper tax treatment when it comes to encouraging people to put money aside and also auto-enrolment, as they have in the netherlands and other places, which encourages people to put money aside from a very early age. we should encourage people to save, and that is a personal responsibility, but it also makes sure that the mix of public policy is right. we have this vast difference from member states east, west, north and south; we have a vast difference when it comes to occupational pensions. anything we do should not undermine or diminish the existing savings in member states that have good pension coverage systems in place. we need to tread carefully in this area to make sure that we give protection to savers and protect people who are putting part of their income on a weekly or monthly basis aside.
the commission will continue to work with the member states to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. i would like to welcome the report, but the first step is that it is not yet in force. there are clearly duties on us to take responsibility for plastic use, but there are greater duties on international bodies to do the right thing with regard to the use of plastic in their products. i'm not going to recommend that you go to the pioneers about what you've done to them, but you're going to have to go to the legislature to end the plastic use of the same thing. there is no immediate solution to the problem at present, but the laws of physics are being enforced every minute of every day. no more plastic in our bhfarraghi in 2050 is possible; it is difficult without the shamlu. and without it, we can't let it go on. but, as a rule, the legislation is not to be used as a substitute for the plaisteach aonarach ach go háirithe.
mr president, we have a plastic problem in europe. we still use single—use plastic cups for our coffees, plastic straws in our drinks, single—use plastic water bottles and plastic cutlery in many of our cafes and takeaways. this leads to pollution across the continent, particularly in our coastal areas and marine environments, where it has a massive negative impact on our maritime and fisheries sectors, which has obvious implications for human health and indeed tourism. it is vital that we take immediate action to tackle plastic waste and bring in strict measures at eu level to do so. it is unacceptable that in 2018, we still have such a level of plastic waste. for this reason, i welcome the commission’s strategy on plastics. i particularly welcome the proposal for a single—use plastics directive, for which i am ppe rapporteur in the committee on fisheries (pech). of the litter found on our beaches in europe, 84% is made up of plastic, with 50% being single—use plastic. we simply must be strong in acting on this and we cannot afford to water down the commission proposals. moreover, measures to reduce plastic waste work. in ireland in 2002, for example, we introduced a levy on plastic bags. the move had an immediate effect on consumer behaviour and a decrease in plastic bag usage from an estimated 328 bags per capita to an estimated 14 bags per capita by 2014. it is important to properly communicate the facts about plastics to european citizens. we must empower them to reduce their consumption of plastics and to understand the significant environmental damage that has been done. i am hosting a public meeting on this very issue this friday in my constituency in county waterford. the people of waterford know only too well the damage that comes from plastic pollution: they see it every summer as they clean up what tourists leave behind on their beaches. i look forward to meeting them and reporting back to parliament.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, the rise in antimicrobial resistance is globally now recognised as one of the greatest potential threats to human health. there has been only one new antibiotic discovery in the past 30 years, and in february of last year, as has already been said, the who reported that within a generation, unless there are new antibiotics, deaths from drug resistance infection could reach 10 million a year. the agricultural community has a big role to play in curbing the overuse of antibiotics, and there are already some important legislative initiatives coming down the track with regard to the advertisement, sale and prescription and use of antibiotics on farms. this evening, though, i want to repeat one of the calls that the agriculture and rural development committee has made in this report, which is that the commission must ban all food imports from third countries where antibiotics may still be used as growth promoters. worldwide, 80% of the total consumption of medically imported antibiotics is in the animal sector for growth promotion in healthy animals. the link between antibiotic consumption by animals and resistance in humans cannot be denied, and if we are going to be realistic about combating this global issue, then this should be one of the first places to start. i want to thank the rapporteur for her work and her cooperation with our committee on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and to pick up on one of the points he made about sustainability and security for citizens, for the environment and for food safety. we are all concerned about those, commissioner, so that’s a point we took into account when we were looking at this legislation. we are also grateful to our own parliamentary research services for this rather large tome of a document, which is an impact assessment of legislation which is world class. i think we all agree with that: we have good legislation. what this report is about is making sure it’s being implemented effectively. other colleagues have spoken about where the problems are in implementation, and they are at member state level – a lack of coordination, perhaps a lack of trust – and they are things which can be rectified. i hope that the work of our rapporteur and colleagues in this chamber will allow that to happen because it is really important. i know that when this legislation was first being discussed there were a lot of concerns amongst farmers because they felt they would be left with no products to keep their plants healthy, to improve yields, or whatever. and i would point out that when we say we should ban this product or that product, without saying what the alternatives are and what the consequences are, it doesn’t make us look good as legislators. so i would ask us to be very conscious of our language because – clearly, commissioner, you are right – where a product has a problem it should not be used, but we also need to make sure that we have sufficient replacement products or systems so that farmers can manage their plant health, look after diseases and control weeds, in a way which is sustainable. i am afraid that is where we have failed because we are not reassuring those who produce our food that we have them in mind when it comes to discussions and debates and legislation on plant protection products.
mr president, as we have the luxury of some time, i want to respond to a sense that i’m getting from this debate, and which a lot of us would feel, that organic agriculture is portrayed as the holy grail, and conventional agriculture as problematic. i perceive that as a problem in itself because i know that organic farmers need to use products on occasion – let’s call them plant protection products – when there are difficulties. equally, organic livestock farmers need to use animal health products when animals are sick. i think this division, this ideology, is unhelpful as we try to move towards sustainable agriculture, and i wish we would be less ideological in our discussions. i want to support the point made by my colleague who talked about the importation of food into the european union, where it may be produced using products which we are banning inside the european union. please, commissioner, listen carefully to that point and do something about it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i’m not sure what your question was. i have to say i disagree with your language. i think to use the words ‘intelligent’ versus ‘stupid’ in this debate is not helpful. frankly, there are a lot of farmers who were up earlier than we were, trying to be intelligent farmers under very difficult circumstances. the point i make is that sometimes you need products. and please understand that conventional farmers do not want to use just any products, because they are costly, and we are working towards reducing the need to have these, but it is this ideological approach – that you cannot use any product – which will result in real problems in the food supply chain. i think we agree on most things, though perhaps not on the language.
i would like to thank the president and the president of the european parliament for their support for the report. we can't curse what's happening in uganda. i'm not going to get sick of ann. it's called ann. i've known her for years. i don't need you to go to the bathroom. but if they do not, they are called in prison and are subject to the same laws and precepts as the rest. and therefore, as my friend svoboda said, i was afraid to look at a horse and i was afraid to kill it. in many countries, we give money to good causes, but we don't know how to use it properly. therefore, it is important to ensure that air quality is improved and that the quality of the air we breathe is maintained.
i can smell it. the president, the prime minister mogherini, welcome this report and especially the new laws, which should be made public. they are not a rud middhleathach; they are not a written under choireanna uafásacha i gcoinne cearta daonna a rinne fórsaí míleata mhaenmar. i can't follow your laws. in order to give an international report, things are similar in myanmar with regard to freedom and especially with regard to the rohingya community. ceaptar gur cuireadh at least 10 000 of them chun bais. 700 000 people have been forced to leave their homes, more than a million of them children. therefore, we have to do something and we have to look especially at the trade agreement that we have today, especially the trade agreement that we have today, at least until it goes into effect, and then we have to do something.
the next item is the vote: (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president, sorry for the delay. i am very glad to support this report with a view to better protecting our citizens’ personal data, particularly in the context of data processing by the institutions. having led negotiations on gdpr for the industry, research and energy committee (itre) on behalf of the ppe i am well aware of the need to ensure that citizens’ data is protected and their rights respected. during meetings with leading technology companies in silicon valley earlier this year, it was clear to me that regulation on data protection is increasingly significant to the lives of all citizens, and harmonisation of the regulation in eu institutions is essential. if we are to ensure an effective data protection framework that adequately supports and protects individuals, the rules of the institutions, bodies and agencies must be adapted accordingly. european citizens have a right to control their own private data, how it is collected, stored and used by others, and it is only right that data controllers exercise the utmost responsibility with individuals’ information. this is vital and i welcome this important move today.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report. mobility has a major influence on how we live our lives today. it plays a vital role in the eu economy and society and it is imperative that we do everything in our power to improve it. the automotive industry accounts for almost 7% of the eu’s gdp and employs 12.2 million people. it is estimated that passenger transport will grow by about 42% between 2010 and 2050 and that freight transport will grow by about 60% during the same period. therefore europe on the move will aid this growth by making traffic safer, encouraging smart road charging, reducing co2 emissions, air pollution and congestion, fighting illicit employment and ensuring proper conditions and rest time for workers. the long-term benefits of these measures will extend far beyond the transport sector by promoting growth and job creation. so i welcome the report.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all i’d like to compliment mr jakovčić on his initiative. i think it is well worth considering having a public holiday for europe day. europe day was first introduced in 1985. the date commemorates the schuman declaration of may 1950, which proposed a pooling of the french and west german coal and steel industries, leading to the creation of the european coal and steel community, established in 1952. following the foundation of the european union in 1993, observance of europe day by national and regional authorities increased significantly. germany, in particular, has gone beyond celebrating just the day, and since 1995 has extended the observance to an entire europe week. in poland, the schuman foundation, a polish organisation advocating european integration, established in 1991, first organised a ‘schuman parade’ on europe day 1999, at the time advocating the accession of poland to the eu. the european parliament formally recognised europe day in october 2008. the eu is one of the most successful political projects in human history. it brought an end to war in europe, creating a dynamic for peace and cooperation. my country joined in 1973. we have benefitted hugely from the customs union, the single market, free trade and the common agricultural policy. all these things have been very positive for us. also, eu membership led to the abolition of the marriage ban and to establishing the principle of equal pay for equal work. celebrating europe day to me makes a lot of sense. it will also counteract some of the negativity that we were talking about this week, with prime minister orbán using anti—eu rhetoric in hungary to win re-election. so i think we should look to formalise it. the commissioner mentioned schools, but if the schools were free on that day they could do all the celebrating that week, in line with germany. and also, if we had a europe day, meps could be back in their constituencies to celebrate it, because we are not available when the celebrations go ahead here in europe.
mr president, i think it is incorrect to say that making schuman day a public holiday would actually add another free day for people to have a day off. there is nothing to stop countries getting rid of a public holiday they have already and replacing it with schuman day, 9 may.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, today we are discussing chechnya one year on, and not as an historical event but as an ongoing atrocity. we do not know how many people are still detained in chechnya; all we know is that their detention and torture continues for not only perceived gay men but also trans women. we know this because of the frontline responders and ngos who are working on the ground. when news of the appalling situation of abduction, imprisonment and torture of lgbt people in chechnya was made public, it was rightly met with strong international condemnation. the eu high representative for foreign affairs, ms mogherini, was part of the international chorus demanding that russia take action on this dreadful situation. yet one year on it is clear that condemnation alone is not enough. the eu must act as a defender of lgbti rights, as it is obliged to under international law. to date, russia has not conducted any meaningful investigations into these abuses, effectively allowing the perpetrators to carry on with impunity while victims continue to flee. the eu and its member states must put more pressure on the chechen and russian authorities. we need to put concrete action behind the lgbti guidelines in eu policy. the guidelines state how the eu can uphold lgbti rights by encouraging states to acknowledge lgbti—phobic violence, to work with civil society and government, to prosecute perpetrators and, of course, the eu should offer sanctuary for those who feel the need to flee.
madam president, i think if you asked citizens across the european union what bitcoin and blockchain were, 99.9% would probably say: ‘what?’ they wouldn’t know. i think, for that reason, it is good that the rapporteur, eva kaili, is ensuring that at least we, on behalf of european citizens, are aware of what is happening and are trying to keep to up to speed with developments and to regulate sensibly. nevertheless, the point made by my colleague, sirpa pietikäinen, is very valid. i think many people, especially nowadays, feel overwhelmed by all the new technologies that have been developed. it might be a good idea for the commission to go on some kind of information campaign to inform citizens what these technologies actually mean to them and what opportunities there are. otherwise the negative side regarding climate and energy use and so forth will take over and it could render it difficult. so that is a suggestion.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu agenda for rural, mountainous and remote areas (2018/2720(rsp)).
madam president, the key to vibrant rural, mountainous and remote areas is to make sure people live there. people will live there if they have income and services and feel they have a future. my concern, in my own country for example, is that there is a huge uncertainty, particularly among beef farmers, because of the potential impact of brexit, but also because of the low incomes that they are earning and a real fear that their firms will not be taken over by young people, despite our efforts in agriculture policy to make sure that we do have incentives for young people to take over their farms. i welcome this debate, because i hope it will bring coordination between policies that are aimed at these regions that we want to serve, but the crisis at farm level is deep and farmers are beginning to question whether their work is valued. this is why, this evening in the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), we voted through a report to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. it’s a first step towards transparency and to try and get better returns back to farm level and back to the rural regions.
madam president, on wednesday, a major rally will take place in dublin to highlight the emergency housing crisis. ten years after the banking crash in ireland, the eu poster child of economic recovery is nothing more than a facade. tonight at least 9527 people, of which 3700 are children, are homeless in ireland. children ashamed to tell their school friends that they have no home; children doing their homework in the toilet because there’s nowhere else quiet to go; eating junk food because their parents have nowhere to cook. a lack of security of tenure means thousands more are living in terror that they will be next to join the homeless numbers, and all the while the irish government pays exorbitant subsidies to the private rental sector in place of building public housing. now, as a final insult, they want to transfer public lands to private developers to build houses that low and middle income families will never afford. this human tragedy will leave a legacy for years to come, and it is brought to you courtesy of the so-called stable politics of fine gael and their pals in the epp.
madam president, as we debate here this morning, the competing wings of british conservativism are battling it out in birmingham about the meaning of brexit. a carnival of reaction if ever i saw one. what’s clear is that none of the tories have any real concern about ireland other than using us to score points in their internal party battle. none of them shows any commitment to previous agreements. they are so clueless that one thinks he can build a bridge between the islands, literally over a one million tonne unstable weapons dump, and another thinks he can currently spend sterling in dublin. so some selectively interpret the good friday agreement to try to get privileged access to eu markets without having to follow any of the rules, while others would happily tear up that agreement along with the commitments they have already made in the brexit negotiation. and mr farage says the border was not an issue during the referendum. well he’s dead right it wasn’t, because that just shows you the level of brexiteer ignorance that there was during the referendum of the history of ireland. so the dublin government and the eu must hold firm and insist that the rights of people in ireland are not up for negotiation and that ireland will not be collateral damage.
blue-card question. – mr brok, like it or not, the uk and the republic of ireland are going to have to get on and it’s going to have to work out. however that happens, it’s going to be difficult, but it’s going to have to work out. for that to work out, we don’t need meps like you coming in here – i’m no fan of ms may, no fan of the conservative party – but it doesn’t help you coming in here and questioning whether their prime minister is legitimate or not. it’s up to them to decide. i’ll say it again: no time for her, but you are not helping, you’re making its worse, elmar. stop it.
madam president, i’d like to address this to mr juncker, because it is about an announcement he made in march 2017. they say if you fail to plan, you plan to fail. this is why i was happy to hear, in march 2017, mr juncker come here and talk about a plan for the future of europe up until 2025. he spoke about five options, and basically the options were full fiscal, economic, monetary or military union on one end of the rainbow, and on the other end of the rainbow we go back to being a group of trading nations. we were meant to have a discussion about this, a debate, something that i think would have helped a couple of years ago in britain and would have actually headed off brexit. we also had a series of reflection papers, which we were meant to discuss. we were also in theory meant to have a series of debates around europe. mr juncker came here and told us about varying numbers, they didn’t add up. on the commission blurb, they talk about this process, and they said it would help decide on a course of action to be rolled out in time for the ep elections in 2019. i now ask the question: where is this white paper on the future of europe? how is it sitting with the various parties here? what is happening in the european elections in relation to it? where is it, mr juncker? where are you? could you not have stayed here for three hours? do you not get paid enough to do your damn job?
madam president, i think michel barnier must have the most unenviable job in the world, especially if he was watching the debate here this morning. he has called for dedramatisation of the issues and it was the exact opposite we got. we had total drama. people playing to the gallery, people playing to their audiences back home without taking the issues seriously. i think mr juncker is right in terms of saying the irish question first, because too much has been invested in the good friday agreement. we have peace, we want that to continue and that has to be guaranteed. it has been guaranteed up until now and it will have to be into the future in the withdrawal agreement. statements like comparing the european union to soviet russia are so wide of the mark and so disrespectful as to be risible and probably, maybe, best ignored. they are coming from people who have no interest really in trying to get an agreement. but an agreement we must get and we all have to work together to do so, and if we do so we can get it.
before i close this debate, and while it is obviously the chair’s duty to be impartial, the issues of brexit and ireland are sensitive to me and i welcome the comments made by mr timmermans. perhaps i can close this debate with words from the grave of a famous irish poet, seamus heaney, and make of them what you will: ‘all throwing shapes, every one of them, convinced he’s in the right. all of them glad to repeat themselves and their every last mistake, no matter what.’ (applause) the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i had the privilege of representing parliament, along with others, at cop21, and i remember that prior to that we were drafting a resolution, and finally we came to agreement with peter liese here, karl-heinz florenz and jerzy buzek to add once sentence. we were in favour of increased ambition, provided other countries did the same, and we got the agreement in paris – a global problem going to be solved globally. that brings me to the point made by my colleague, peter. i’m all in favour of pushing the car industry, and indeed every other industry, as far as we can in terms of reducing emissions, but not to push them over the edge. in other words, we do not want job losses, we do not want carbon leakage, but at the same time, we do not want to listen to them either saying they can’t do anything. so we have a very important role here to try and find what is the maximum attainable in the interests of the environment and in the interests of jobs.
mr president, ireland is one of six eu member states which deprived their citizens of the right to vote in national parliamentary elections due to residence abroad. as i’m sure you probably know, there are a lot of irish people abroad. if you’re gone for longer than 18 months, you’ve given up your right to representation, it seems. however, during both the marriage and abortion referendums, the ‘get the boat to vote’ campaign demonstrated that thousands of irish people abroad are deeply concerned about the future of their country and, if the property market would allow it, they would one day return. last year our government made the tokenistic proposal to extend voting rights in the election of the president, a largely ceremonial role with no executive powers. why not enact meaningful reform and allow every irish citizen a say in how the country is actually run? the answer, of course, is that these disenfranchised voters are also disenchanted voters, and cannot be counted on for their support. by consistently refusing to act and privileging those voters who didn’t have to resort to migration, ireland is effectively gerrymandering the country and blocking those most affected by the catastrophic decisions of successive irish governments. it’s got to change.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh phríomh-aire na heastóine agus, a phríomh-aire, comhghairdeas as ucht an aithisc bhreá a thug tú dúinn agus go háirithe gur úsáid tú do theanga dhúchais féin san aitheasc sin. i would like to thank you for your kind words, and for your kind words, which i would like to thank you for. estonia has played a very important role in the european union since it joined. we've had many fine members, and none more so than my great friend and epp colleague, the estonian hero tunne kelam. it is a joy to work with him. in your speech, prime minister, you made some very interesting points. you said that unity doesn't have to mean uniformity. well said. by way of illustration, you said that different levels of taxes in different member states are normal for you. well said again. my question to you is: have you found pressure to harmonize taxes? how would you deal with that? how should countries like ireland and estonia deal with that pressure if it were to come up again in the future?
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to introduce important measures that will simplify cross-border trade, reduce vat fraud and minimise compliance costs for businesses. this update to the current eu vat system will be particularly needed in years to come, as fraud continues to increase and to become an even more pressing issue. it is crucial for businesses across the eu that excessive compliance costs be reduced, and i welcome the fact that this is reflected. additionally, it is extremely important that the heavy administrative burden on member states, due to lack of harmonisation, is eased, and this text will help to ensure that this is the case. i also welcome the text in relation to the new status for certifiable taxable persons, which, once effectively harmonised across the eu, should be a significant step in simplifying the vat system across the union. i was also pleased to vote in favour of musical instruments being able to qualify for reduced rates of vat should a member state choose to make provision to that effect. it is important that we recognise and help the creative industries.
madam president, minimum income was a floor below which income should not fall and it can vary for different countries. it could be a wage supplemented by state support; state—provided targeted benefits, such as those for persons with disabilities; unemployment support in housing, or indeed schooling and education; or it could be for carers. child poverty is one of the real targets in this area to address to ensure that we bring all children out of that. in my own country, it is still the case that child poverty levels are quite high, and they are not keeping pace with the growth in the economy and growth in employment. nevertheless, the way to address child poverty is to help parents, through employment and through support that can ensure adequate living standards. today, we had a report published in my country on the minimum wage. whilst i know that’s not a solution to everything, the study said today that of those on minimum wages one-in-three would move on to a higher wage in a matter of nine months. it acts as a stepping stone to jobs with better pay. however, those on minimum wage are most likely to lose their jobs; they are more likely to have poor education, be part-time employees and be on temporary contracts. that all ties in with the commission’s pillar of social rights and, indeed, transparent and predictable working conditions, which i fully support. i hope we see progress through this parliament. so, income guarantee is not a guaranteed minimum income, but it’s certainly at a level below which we should recognise income should not fall, particularly for those with families.
mr president, firstly, allow me to thank commissioner ansip and especially my good colleague and friend anna maria corazza bildt for her good work on this file. having been involved as a rapporteur in the data protection regulation (gdpr), i know that time and effort and expertise, indeed, is required to bring a file to this level. well done to anna maria and her colleagues. one of the things about the gdpr which was very interesting was that initially people didn’t want it, but it was interesting that when mark zuckerberg came here to the european parliament he said that it was setting a global standard. the same will apply to anna maria’s work in the non—personal data sector. obviously, things are moving at a rapid pace. we do, as mr guoga said, have to allow for artificial intelligence to develop, data analytics, big data of all sorts. i think this is a very balanced proposal and that it will serve the european union and our citizens and services very well, so well done to you all.
mr president, listening to mr coburn, i thought he was making the point that the uk should remain in the european union, given the outcome of his logic that all of this dirty money would be sloshing around the city of london, brought about by european oligarchs. quite extraordinary! i have a number of points. we have existing law: let’s implement it. i commend the fact that the commission is taking action against some member states – little known action that i think will make a difference. we have a huge difference when it comes to the reporting of information by banks to member states, and on to europe-wide authorities. we need to improve data exchange. we need to recognise that we have a policing regime which, in some member states, is not fit for purpose when it comes to investigating and resolving all these issues. and chiefly, we give policing authorities first responsibility here. so there are weaknesses that we have to resolve. can they be resolved by a new super-agency? my view is no. if anything, we need to increase the powers of the european banking authority and certainly to increase its resources. this is an organisation of fewer than 200 people: if they are really going to tackle this, they need to be brought up to a standard and a number and a level of resources that will have application. the essential point is that, if we don’t tackle this, it is another potential undermining of financial stability in the european union. we’ve got to move quickly. we’ve done that with anti-money laundering legislation, in terms of many of the directives there – i think we are up to five at the moment, and i also believe we need a consistency of approach right across the european union. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, i profoundly disagree with you. the european investment bank is the bank of the european union. it lends money right across the european union and into our neighbourhood. it lends significant amounts of money to the united kingdom and it gets that money back. that’s the job of the european investment bank. it invests in housing projects and commercial projects right across the united kingdom. that’s the reality of the european investment bank, and it has a very strict mandate in terms of what it can and cannot do. if you’re trying to take cheap pots at the eib, go ahead, but it really doesn’t add up to much in relation to the scrutiny you are arguing for.
mr president, i must say i am appalled at the extent of money laundering that is taking place in the european union. i listened to the debate carefully. one message that we need to send out from here is that no individual should be too big to jail, no bank too big to fail, and no member state too big to nail. if we do that we will make a good effort at solving this ridiculous situation that is denying citizens so much in terms of jobs and wealth. i agree with my colleague, mr hayes, that rather than creating a new agency, we should give increased resources to the eba to apply the rules that are there and, if the rules are not sufficiently strong, to introduce more draconian rules and penalties. the best deterrent for this is a huge draconian penalty. finally, i do not like the eib being associated with this discussion. from my knowledge of them, they do tremendous work for europe and efsi especially is there for all to see.
the european commission has an important role to play in the eea and is due to do a great deal to help it in its economic and social work. ah, at the same time, ni maith an rud is nach bhfuil to be free ag chuile dhuine sa tír agus is eiseamláir is ahmed mansoor den chás seo. he's in prison because he doesn't want his thoughts to be harassed on social media. i didn't agree with the laws and i wasn't happy with them and now i'm in prison and i'm going to do things differently. therefore, it is right to go to the polls to vote this morning, to vote against the eea and to let people vote, and to do so in a way that is consistent with the economic situation and without prejudice to the fundamental freedoms of the people, especially ahmed mansoor.
mr president, we are here today concerning the deterioration in the protection of human rights by the chinese authorities, in particular with regard to the rights of ethnic minorities. i strongly condemn the arbitrary detention of uyghurs and other minorities, as well as the mass surveillance of their daily lives through the collection and use of data which they cannot object to. such issues must be raised by the eu with the chinese authorities at every political level, in order to reflect a strong, unified voice in its approach to china and to prevent a further deterioration of the situation. i call for the immediate release of those detained arbitrarily. the fundamental rights to freedom of expression and religion, in addition to the right to peaceful assembly and association, must be reinstated and firmly protected. the promotion of, and respect for, universal human rights, democracy and the rule of law is at the core of the longstanding relationship between the eu and china. the eu’s commitment to upholding these values and china’s expressed interest in adhering to them require a strong condemnation of the situation in xinjiang province.
madam president, i welcome the support and the steps being taken to secure criminal justice cooperation across the eu and i thank my colleague, axel voss, for his good work, as always. as criminals continue to use more and more sophisticated methods, so too must our criminal justice actors, and to this end, i’m encouraged by the reinforcement of eurojust’s role in fighting transnational crime. should crimes such as terrorism, cybercrime, human trafficking and money laundering, continue to rise across our borders, it will be essential that eurojust can exchange more information with member states and provide sufficient data protection. i support the introduction of a new executive board, which will enable increased efficiency for eurojust, and plans for regular reporting to european and national parliaments. these efforts will be increasingly important to my constituents in ireland and constituents right across the european union, so i am very glad to see this progress in the eu’s criminal justice cooperation.
madam president, i had the pleasure of attending and taking part in the debate on this topic last night. i commend anna maria corazza bildt on her good work and agree with her that this is a game changer. i very much welcome the significant step to protect the free flow of data, removing any unjustified national laws that limit data storage to that member state. i welcome the exemption for restrictions for reasons of public security and the harmonisation of this regulation with the gdpr, of which i was a rapporteur. the removal of technical, legislative and economic barriers to data flow between cloud services will be a great advantage for smes across the european union. this will encourage competition in the data storage market and will prove particularly helpful for organisations looking to store and process data in different member states considering the challenges posed when trying to change service provider. the irish economy will benefit significantly from the removal of unjustified data localisation restrictions so i am happy to be voting in favour of this report. it’s a good job and will help especially when you go to the internet of things and connected cars in due course.
madam president, there may not be many meps here with our good commissioner bieńkowska, but we’re pretty unanimous in our approach to this topic – not surprisingly so, because the welfare of europe’s animals is an extremely important issue and one that is often overlooked. the 2007 directive lays down minimum standards for the protection of chickens kept for meat production. as always, it is key that enforcement of these directives is consistent across member states and, up until this point, we have not seen that happen. some of the problems we were speaking about today allegedly include the fact that chickens which are bred purely for the purpose of meat are often reared in groups of tens of thousands in terrible conditions, without any possibility of expressing natural behaviours, such as perching, pecking or even experiencing natural sunlight. there are also several knock—on effects to humans from rearing chickens in this way, such as a threat to our health from antibiotics used on chickens. this is simply an issue we can no longer ignore. furthermore, it seems the pollution caused by industrial poultry production is ever—increasing and is now seen as a major contributor to ammonia pollution of air, soil and water. i believe the industry is currently taking steps to address some of these issues, but again it is imperative that a comprehensive approach is taken to ensure we tackle these problems in the most efficient way and spread awareness across all member states of the extent and variety of the problem. i support karin kadenbach and others’ questions to the commission and wonder what is going to be done to improve the welfare of broiler chickens. are any steps being taken to address some of the issues? are broiler chickens going to be afforded a better existence? are there alternative methods of rearing chickens being looked into that can attempt to improve their quality of life, while also minimising the negative impact it has on humans and on the environment? finally, i would say that if we reared cattle and sheep in this way, i think the farms would be closed down overnight. why do we treat poultry in such a terrible way? it’s not acceptable any longer.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, last month i attended the global climate action summit in san francisco and i was heartened by how some of the federal states are still committing to paris targets, despite persistent climate change denial from the trump administration. the eu needs this same determination at cop24, especially now that there is a leadership vacuum to fill following the us withdrawal from paris. climate action isn’t easy. it requires governments to make radical changes to their economies. my country, ireland, especially must ensure that all of its policy areas are coherent with reaching our climate targets. on a global, eu and national scale, we are way off track. parliament’s resolution on cop24 stresses that the current nationally determined contributions would only curb global warming to 3.2°, nowhere close to the 2° commitment in paris. on top of that, the un climate body’s recent report projected the disastrous effects of even 2° and how it is crucial to curb warming at 1.5° to prevent massive human and ecological losses. the eu has no other choice but to rise to the challenge of cop24 and not bow to the lobbyists.
motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 128(5)) will be announced later. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by daniele viotti and paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019 – all sections (11737/2018 – c8—0410/2018 – 2018/2046(bud)) (a8—0313/2018).
madam president, firstly thanks to the rapporteur and also commissioner oettinger, who has been so dutiful and direct and clear in his portfolio in this regard, i complement him on that. in the budget itself i think it is absolutely vital that everything we do has added value. that has to be the essential ingredient of the european union and i’d particularly like to see emphasis being put on helping smes: i think due to the policies over the last number of years going back to michel barnier, when he was regional development commissioner bringing in policies, smes are now in a position to develop and grow but many of them have difficulty in accessing funding. i hosted a seminar in my own county in tralee in kerry a few weeks ago on investeu, and that message came across and we need to make it simpler for them to do that. i also agree with the commissioner that we have to give leadership in climate change: a lot of research will be required and in europe in particular we’ve got to do a lot of that, so the rest of the world will follow.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, through the 2014 right2water european citizens’ initiative (eci) nearly two million people across europe sent a clear message to the eu that access to water is a human right. we did not choose this directive to respond to the demands of this petition, it was the commission that came forward with this mediocre response. but what is more disappointing is that the european parliament, which supposedly represents the people across the eu, is utterly failing those who signed that petition. in a shameful process of negotiations, parliament has significantly weakened the provisions on access to water in this directive and this is an affront to the right2water petition and the petition procedure itself, which is the only channel for the people to directly voice their concern to the eu. i was the rapporteur of the right to water report that was approved by this parliament in 2015. we endorsed the demands of the right2water petition and called for this human right to be enshrined in eu law. the european economic and social committee also endorsed the petition’s commands. now here we are, as the only directly elected eu institution, failing the nearly two million people who fought for this eu petition. you are treating ... (the president cut off the speaker by mistake, then allowed ms boylan to continue)there are two million people who want the human right to water to be enshrined in law and this speech is for them. i am elected by those people to represent their views. that is why other like-minded meps have submitted their alternative amendments and we will be bringing them tomorrow, and i hope that people will join the right to water outside parliament at half nine in the morning as well.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we’ve all been horrified by the images of plastics in our ocean and we’re becoming more aware of the consequences of our throw—away economy. we are now in a position as legislators to put in place aggressively ambitious rules to stop this plastics crisis and not just replace them with biodegradables. whatʼs great is that the people are behind us on this one. this is a crucially important vote, and people are interested and they want a strong response. we need to get this directive right from the very start and lay out a firm framework, but we are setting ourselves up for failure with the current definition of single—use plastic. it must be rock solid, with no loopholes for industry to exploit. also, member states need to be able to be more ambitious than this directive. if they wish to forge ahead with more ambitious ideas, this directive should not hold them back. the efficiency of the single market cannot be prioritised over the environment. this is our chance. let’s be ambitious on plastics.
mr president, i was pleased to have the opportunity to work on this legislation as ppe shadow rapporteur in the committee on fisheries. this is hugely important from a fisheries point of view, not only because it will help to clean up the seas and coastal areas that are vital for our fishing communities, but also because it seeks to deal with the huge amount of waste from used fishing gear that is often discarded into the sea. global production of plastics has increased 20—fold since the 1960s and had reached 322 million tonnes worldwide by 2015. in the eu alone, around 26 million tonnes of plastic waste is generated every year and less than 30% of it is recycled. if you combine the production process of plastics and their incineration after use, the amount of carbon being put into the atmosphere globally as a result of plastics is around 400 million tonnes. this is enormous. if we want to have any chance of meeting our 2°c target, we need to vastly reduce emissions from sectors and sources where emissions are so avoidable. i strongly welcome the work of my colleagues on this file. of the litter found on our beaches in europe, 84% is made up of plastic with 50% being single—use plastics. unrecycled plastic takes hundreds of years to break down and much can’t even be recycled. our choice, therefore, is to follow what the commission is saying and restrict single—use plastics.
mr president, what is it about the provision of rural broadband that it seems to attract repeated failures and controversies? this month in ireland yet another minister left the department with responsibility for broadband, this time forced out due to unethical engagements with bidders for the billion-euro national broadband tender. the commission too has serious questions to answer as to why a luxembourg-based corporation was selected without public procurement process to manage a multi-million euro eu fund while they were also bidding to take over an irish company involved in the national broadband bid. the reason for the controversies and the repeated failures is that broadband provision has been seen by both the eu and the irish government as, rather than a public service, one which has instead been placed in the hands of private corporate interests whose first interest, at all stages, is their own profits. the losers in all of this are, of course, the people of those rural communities that do not have access to broadband. it’s time for a public ownership model of telecommunications infrastructure to take precedence so that finally, everyone will have access to this essential infrastructure.
mr president, as rapporteur on the general data protection regulation (gdpr), i was very pleased with the overall outcome, and i think it will work well into the future. but, as ms sophia in 't veld said, all the rules and laws in the world are no good unless theyʼre applied, and i think it’s quite obvious that there are problems in facebook – we have seen that for some time. the first one, i think, is the question that manfred weber, leader of the european people’s party, put to mark zuckerberg when he came to parliament. he said: ‘is facebook just too big?’ we had the phrase during the recession from his book about banks being too big to fail, but is facebook just too big to operate? that’s one question that has to be looked at. i know facebook does an awful lot of good work in terms of facilitating people to communicate, but the dark side has to be addressed, especially countries like russia interfering in elections. that’s undermining all of society and it needs to be monitored and monitored independently, as opposed to what’s happening now.
i just want to make a small personal announcement. the gavel i am using was produced by the men’s sheds in ireland – they were one of the winners of the european citizen’s prize. i thought it might be a nice touch for me to use this to call order today, and i in particular mention the drogheda men’s sheds in ireland. (applause) it’s one of the privileges of this job, but let’s see how the votes go!
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
madam president, we need to be ambitious when it comes to our water quality and water supply. that’s why i abstained on this because this report, this was not ambitious enough. the reason why i say it wasn’t ambitious enough is because it went below the minimum standard. the idea that it would be acceptable to people in here that you can go in and cut off the water supply to a house with children in it, if that’s a minimum for you well i can’t go along with that. but then again it can’t be a surprise, because we have a commissioner for agriculture who is actually here because of what he said on this issue in ireland. he said that if people didn’t pay their water bills, no matter how much they needed it, their water would be cut down to a trickle. his punishment was to be thrown out of irish politics, but in the bizarre world of european politics his reward was to get that job here. but let there be a warning to people here: you need to be more ambitious than you were today. the idea that you can cut off someone’s water supply when they need it for their bottle to feed them and to quench their thirst … you cause major problems for them, and this is what you will do by voting for what you did today. that’s not ambitious enough for me. is it too much to ask?
madam president, if one was to be getting divorced next march, no matter what else was happening in your life, whether you were getting a more energy-efficient car, whether you were insulating your house and no matter how deluded you’d want to be about what was important next year, what would be important next year would be the divorce. and you wouldn’t put it number four on the list. it should be number one on the list, otherwise you would be in denial. we are talking about brexit; we are talking about the second-biggest economy in europe leaving the european union. like it or not, they’re leaving. billions of euros in trade, billions of connections in many other areas – family-wise, social-wise – in many different areas. that has to be the number one priority. if it isn’t, there’s something wrong here. in particular for ireland, we need the endgame to be: no restrictions on trade, no restrictions on movement of people and no border. people talk about the irish border – it’s not an irish border, it’s a british border. if it was up to us it would not be there.
madam president, as we predicted, the british government is trying to isolate and understate the issue of the border dividing ireland. it is saying that we have 95% of the issues solved so therefore it is in the interests of the eu to abandon ireland. they discovered the bottom line of the eu in december and have been trying to negotiate downwards ever since. the british government has yet to understand that failure to agree the 5% – the backstop – means that there is no agreement on the 100%. time is running out for theresa may to escape the poisonous embrace of the dup. the dup are a busted flush. they do not even represent the majority view of the north of ireland. they speak out of both sides of their mouth on regulatory divergence from britain – just ask the lgbt community and the women who travel to britain every day for abortions. it is time that theresa may restores trust in the negotiations and signs what she agreed in december.
it’s often better to make your key point first.
colleagues, before i give the floor to the next speaker, i regret that we will not be able to take catch-the-eye because of the time constraints, and we do have a two-hour vote. so apologies to those who wished to use that.
madam president, so another council meeting comes and goes without an agreement, the united kingdom tries to backtrack on a backstop agreement that was agreed in writing, and 700 000 sensible people take to the streets of london to protest about this ongoing calamity. this past week truly was brexit in a nutshell. it was indeed disappointing that a deal could not be reached. however, michel barnier has the full confidence and support, and indeed gratitude, of ireland and the rest of the eu27. progress has been made and i am confident that a deal can be reached, including the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, and the avoidance of a hard border on the island of ireland. from my meetings this week with michel barnier and united kingdom permanent representatives, i think this will be achieved at the 11th hour. on the irish backstop, let me be perfectly clear. ireland will listen to all proposals that the united kingdom brings forward, but any proposal, in order to be acceptable, has to be legally operative and ensure that we avoid a hard border between northern ireland and ireland. it has to protect the integrity of the single market and the customs union, and it has to apply unless and until we have a new relationship that supersedes it. we cannot allow uncertainty about the border and its impact on the peace process to persist beyond the united kingdom’s withdrawal. this is something i would expect the hard brexiteers to be conscious of, given the fact that they are part of the united kingdom and northern ireland is in the united kingdom. a deal is essential. a no—deal scenario would have enormous impacts on us all and most of all on the united kingdom. research by imperial college london has estimated that a two—minute check at the eurotunnel would cause a 10-mile traffic queue, a three—minute check would cause 20 miles, and a four—minute check would cause 30 miles. this is the reality of a hard brexit. let us be very clear. we want an agreement. an agreement is essential. i thank all our colleagues here, michel barnier, donald tusk et al, for their support. we will continue working on this issue.
mr president, in 1979, when my sister came home from a girl guides trip with a plastic spoon and a plastic fork, myself and my younger brother had a fight over who would get to keep it. the reason why we fought to keep it was because we had never seen one before. i won the fight. i got to keep this new lightweight, plastic, modern future for us. at the time we were worried; our main worry on this planet was a nuclear holocaust. little did we realise that the plastic fork and spoon that i had in my hand was actually going to turn out to be more dangerous – and i say that now, even with who we have in the white house. by 2050 there will be more plastic in the oceans than there are fish by weight: 130 different marine species known to have ingested plastic. this proposal focuses on the top ten single—use plastics: cotton bud sticks, cutlery, plates, stirrers and straws. it would not take a genius to replace the plastic in the cotton bud with wood. my mother was not a genius to use proper cups and plates at our birthday parties. it wouldn’t take me to be a genius to use proper cups and plates at future birthday parties. more of this: this is what the union should be about, not war and not about finance.
mr president, i was very pleased to vote in favour of this report. as the epp negotiator for the committee on fisheries on single—use plastics, i am conscious of the wide-ranging effects of our excessive plastic production and pollution. we are creating unnecessary, harmful waste every day and an eu—wide approach to tackle this is long overdue. we have to take advantage of the alternatives to single—use plastic. the eu should take leadership in this area and there is an economic opportunity available in producing innovative, reusable products. studies show that up to 30 000 new local jobs could be created if the eu acts on this. plastic pollution has a significant impact for citizens, marine life and the environment at large. in my own constituency, in ireland south, the coast and seas surrounding the island of ireland are our greatest resource and they need to be protected. i welcome the ambition to reduce the littering by more than half for the most common single—use plastics. the damage to the environment otherwise would be in the region of eur 22 billion by 2030. – níl am le spáráil. go raibh maith agat a uachtaráin.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in 2017, out of a budget of approximately eur 140 billion, the eu spent 52.8 billion on agriculture and rural development. this equates to less than half of one per cent of member states’ gni. as auditors, concerned where funds are spent, this represents outstanding value for money. the fact that 500 million citizens of the eu have access to quality, affordable food is perhaps one of the greatest achievements of the eu. the error rate in direct payments (pillar 1) is below 2%. with improvements in the control systems – both the integrated administration and control system (iacs) and the land parcel identification system (lpis) – this is expected to improve further. the error rate in pillar 2 is higher, and while we must be aware of this and work to improve it, it should come as no surprise. we should bear in mind that pillar 2 schemes focusing more on environmental issues are inherently more error-prone and less easily quantifiable. we face huge challenges in this area and we must continue to set the bar high and assist our farmers as they take on new challenges in climate change mitigation. we must resist the urge to focus solely on error rates in this sector, which may have the unintended consequence of lowering ambition in order to comply with targets in this vital sector. these things must be kept in mind in the upcoming cap. with the commission’s proposed new delivery model, will it lead to the much-touted simplification at farmer level? how will fragmentation of one of our oldest policies under the banner of subsidiarity lead to better outcomes in an area where we must work together across the eu, namely climate change mitigation? and finally, from an auditor’s perspective, there are hard questions to be asked of the direction of this cap reform. look at it closely. it’s going to be a disaster.
mr president, i want to congratulate the court of auditors once again for a job well done. i think it is really significant that the error rate continues to fall and we need to welcome that as real progress that has been shown. the most important job of the job of auditors is to shine a light on public expenditure as it relates to european funds, and shining a light must lead to change, it must lead to new practices. as other colleagues have said, it must lead to less bureaucracy, not more bureaucracy. we have to do things differently, and in any new budget we have got to prioritise new areas of public expenditure. as we go forward to the multiannual financial framework (mff )for the next seven years, let us agree that earlier rather than later. let us also ensure that we breach the 1% cap, which many member states do not want to breach, because that will show real solidarity to the 27 member states that remain within the european union, and it will also show real determination to be ambitious on european projects that can lead to a better, stronger single market. i also think it’s important that we highlight in this debate the way in which we can change attitudes and change procedures through better public expenditure. a new mff must be about new priorities; not just the same old systems but new priorities. that is the best way to respond to the concerns of eu taxpayers.
author. – madam president, this is a really important debate. i think sometimes people might think we legislate and then forget, but actually this debate is about making sure that the legislation on medical devices is implemented in full, and on time. but the reason it has been tabled – and i thank the colleagues who have co-signed with me, we were all involved in this legislation – is that concerns are being raised about the timely implementation. let’s reflect on why we had to modernise this law. it was because there were scandals in the medical devices sector, some of a criminal nature, and some identifying problems with how the industry is regulated, the ‘fit-for-purpose’ of notified bodies being one particular issue. so the reason we ask this question is because those concerns on implementation are being raised, but our focus is on patient safety and making sure that there is a supply of devices that are scrutinised fully so that there is no interruption in the medical care and attention that our patients receive. can i say that i have a friend going in next week for a knee operation. they are not worried about the gadget, or the knee, because they presume it is going to be safe and effective, and that they will come out skipping, and i hope they will. they are worried just about the operation. i think when patients go into hospital and have a procedure involving a medical device they presume that the medical device is certified and fit for purpose – and we have to give them that guarantee, and that’s the purpose of our question to you this morning. we are concerned about the commission’s coordination. there are three different, if you like, dgs of the commission involved in this, so how is that working, and is it effective? and also, when we were debating this legislation, brexit wasn’t a reality. it now is, and we have to take account of the implications and consequences of brexit on the medical device legislation and on the supply of devices that keep our patients safe. one of the issues that has been raised with us is the expertise available both perhaps within the commission itself, but also within member states and within notified bodies, and of the notified bodies that currently operate. i would like the commission to clarify how many have actually looked for re-designation, as is required under this legislation. i understand it takes 18 months to re-designate a notified body, and if many have not applied at this stage, then we need to know that they will immediately and that they will be certified in time to meet the strict requirements of this legislation. lastly, are member states doing enough? because they are the ones who are perhaps raising this issue with us as well as the industry, and what do they need to do to make sure that they get this in place in their member state and on time? thank you, commissioner, for taking the question. i look forward to your responses.
madam president, the great thing about technical debates is that we are few in number in the debate so we get extra time to respond and i think it’s hugely important. i think it’s also true to say that, if there was a scandal tomorrow on the medical devices industry, this chamber would be full, so we need to understand that. we’ve lived through a really bad experience and the reputable industry suffered, while the rogues perhaps were not penalised sufficiently. so let me just put that down as a marker. i want to respond in particular to the answers you’ve given us, commissioner. i applaud your optimism. i’m quoting my notes here – we’re on track, there’s no delay, there are no alarm bells – and, as commissioner, you need to show that confidence. but that is not what we are hearing. i’m not raising an alarm bell, but i am raising concerns that i am hearing from regulators, from patient groups and from industry about whether we can implement in full and on time. like others. i’m not calling for any delays in implementation. i think that would be a really bad signal to our citizens because it took us a long time to get to this place. but i want to make sure that we will actually do that: implement in full and on time. so, i do need you to come back to some of those questions and give me more assurances that we are on track and that there are no delays. some colleagues raised the issue of the reduction in the numbers of notified bodies. these are the regulators, if you like, that work with industry to make sure products are safe. let’s remind ourselves of the facts: before we started on this process of updating our legislation, there were 80 notified bodies across the european union. when we sent in the auditors, we found that many were not fit for purpose and that there are only 59 of that 80 still operating. that should be an alarm bell. we hope that those 59 are all fit for purpose, that they will apply for re-designation and that it happens on time. commissioner, i want to speak about brexit because i think you need to give us more detail. for example, many would believe that, because we will hopefully have a withdrawal agreement, there will be a transition or implementation period and that nothing will change around the medical devices sector until the end of that period. but, as i heard from you, that is not the case, so please clarify when the change comes. is it at the end of march or at the end of the transition? the second question – and perhaps the more pertinent one – is that the uk is a major player in this industry and also has many notified bodies. more detail please on what those notified bodies, that are located in the united kingdom, are doing so that they can continue their work because i fear, if they left the stage, then we do have an alarm bell and we will be ringing it.
mr president, firstly an observation. we spent eight minutes today arguing whether we should continue with the vote or not and then when we decided to continue with it, it took us, i think, 12 minutes. so i think it’s not your fault but it is something i think the presidency needs to look at, so it doesn’t happen again. a uachtaráin, maidir leis an ábhar seo, tá áthas an domhain orm glacadh leis na moltaí anseo agus caithfimid ár ndícheall a dhéanamh chun troid i gcoinne athrú aeráide agus beidh mé ag dul go katowice sa pholainn ar son na parlaiminte, mar a rinne mé i bpáras agus in marrakech do cop21 agus cop22, an t-aon fheisire ó mo thír féin a bhí ann agus pribhléid mhór ab ea é. ach anois, caithfimid gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun ár bpláinéad a ghlanadh suas agus tá dualgais ar chuile thír, mo thír féin san áireamh, chun ár ngeallúintí a chomhlíonadh agus má dhéanann gach duine é sin, tabharfaimid pláinéad níos fearr don ghlúin atá romhainn.
mr president, having previously led negotiations on the general data protection regulation for parliament’s itre committee, i know how important it is that citizens’ data is respected and used appropriately. the misuse of personal data is without question not to be tolerated and the recent cambridge analytica scandal completely undermined the privacy of european citizens. not only was this data breach an abuse of such personal data, but the use of improperly obtained data to build voter profiles with a view to influencing elections was a complete manipulation of the electorate. in 2016, a special eurobarometer on online platforms reported that over half of eu citizens are concerned about their personal data on the internet and no doubt this figure is now much higher. it is essential that facebook takes the necessary measures to prevent further breaches of data and makes changes to its platform to comply with eu data protection law and provide sufficient protection to european citizens' data.
thar ceann an ghrúpa the european parliament the uachtaráin, the choimisinéir, the dzhordays are the co-chairs. i agree with what you have said and i am proud to speak for my group, the epp, on this important subject. especially, when the rud is gone, i'll be in my room. the commissioner said that the eu's industrial policy was based on the principle of 'sustainable development'. it is therefore vital that the eu prioritises the needs of the industrial sector and provides sufficient support for its growth in the coming years. i was recently appointed as epp-itre rapporteur on the new investeu programme which the commissioner referred to, which will use a budgetary guarantee to mobilise investment in sustainable infrastructure, research and innovation, smes and social investment and skills. this 650 billion fund provides an excellent opportunity to promote competition in the industry sector across all the member states. as one of the flagship programmes of the new eu budget, it will constitute a significant part of our long-term strategy for industry in europe. with a view to building a strong, sustainable industry sector, smes and start-ups should be prioritised. i believe it would also be important to have advisory hubs in each member state to inform stakeholders on access to eu funding. we must facilitate the growth of the industry sectors, not only with funds, but also with information and above all, ease of access to those funds, which has not been the case sometimes in the past. in this way, we can accelerate digitalisation and innovation, encourage an entrepreneurial culture and increase competition in the industry sector. earlier this year my colleague heinz lehmann's committee of the regions draft opinion on a european strategy for industry pointed to the importance of cities and regions in supporting innovation in industry and in promoting industrial adaptation to the digital advances. local and regional authorities have a lot of influence in areas such as infrastructure, export support, research and innovation, education and skills, smes and regulation, all of which are crucial for a globally competitive industry. technologies are developing at an ever-increasing pace. we should see this as an opportunity, particularly in prioritizing industrial growth which is environmentally friendly. energy is key in determining the competitiveness of the european economy and in particular of industry. a sustainable supply of energy at a reasonable cost to households and businesses, in particular industrial consumers, is crucial. and finally, labour mobility across europe is an important aspect of industry competitiveness. we need to promote the importance of digital and linguistic skills in order to support employability of workers abroad. we must also increase efforts to encourage women's participation in the labour market with a particular focus on female entrepreneurship, and i am quite sure, commissioner, you agree with that.
madam president, in the wake of the alarming un climate reports, we are meeting this week in strasbourg to vote on the outcomes of important energy files which will of course affect our climate policies. but on the energy efficiency directive, here we had the opportunity to make some real change. but, as expected, the agreement has been battered and bruised through negotiations with the council, all the important provisions have been watered down, weakening ambition and reducing obligations on tackling energy poverty to nothing but a footnote. on the renewable energy directive we have an acceptable eu target and even good provisions on making biofuel sustainable. an end to palm oil is in sight but we cannot have any backsliding on this. however, that said, is it wrong of me to expect a directive on renewable energy to be about climate action, rather than paving the way for a liberalised energy market? climate goals – not an energy market – should be at the heart of these directives.
madam president, allow me to first of all begin my contribution this evening by paying tribute to the excellent parliament negotiating team that worked together over the past two years to deliver what is an extremely positive result for this institution. thanks to mr blanco lópez, mr federley, mr henkel, mr tamburrano, ms lópez bermejo and, of course, mr claude turmes, who has since moved on to pastures new – we wish him the best in the luxembourg government. in addition, i think there is great praise due to the bulgarian presidency and particularly minister stankov for excellent cooperation over the course of the negotiations. this is a negotiation that has yielded some extremely important results for the renewable energy sector by providing the much needed—ambition and certainly to drive investments into the environment of renewable energy across europe. indeed, this is also a great result for consumers, on whom there is a big focus in the text. i strongly welcome the agreement that we ultimately reached here in strasbourg, at 4 am on the morning of 14 june – an agreement that will ensure that 32% of energy used in the european union by 2030 comes from renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar, biomass, ocean or geothermal, etc. this is significant, and the fact that we expect the text to be strongly supported in the vote tomorrow is testament to this house’s recognition of the importance of the switch to renewable energy and the enormous potential it brings for us all. this is not only about contributing to the eu’s 40% emissions reductions by 2030, in accordance with our paris agreement pledge. nor is it only about increasing the efficiency of energy markets and improving air quality. renewable energy is a rapidly growing sector, and is now contributing a significant amount of jobs globally. global employment and renewable energy sectors reached 10.3 million jobs in 2017. this is up 5.3% on the previous year, 2016, and it continues to grow rapidly. our ambitious text will help to create eu leadership in these sectors and prevent jobs being lost to the rapidly expanding renewables industry in other parts of the world.
madam president, rarely have i seen such a divergence of opinions, both within and beyond political groups and with the commission, as on this topic. i think everybody here wants to see fishermen thrive, they want to see fish stocks increase, but obviously there is a dilemma in the adriatic which needs to be addressed. when you have a situation where, as has been quoted, sardines go from 15 inches to 11 inches, that has to be explained. what’s going on? if that happened to the human race, if over a period of years people declined by four or five inches, there would be an investigation and discussion. i think mr kuhn gave the most balanced view when he said if there needs to be measures, the fishermen have to be helped by compensation, maybe even co—financing. a few weeks ago we brought a fishing delegation from the european parliament to my constituency, and one of the points made by the fishermen is that they felt their voices weren’t heard enough. i think it is important to bring stakeholders, those who are on the sea every day, more into the discussion, and allow them to have their say and let them feel that they are part of the solution, not the problem.
madam president, there has been lots of talk about the rise of right—wing populism and how the centre must hold in next year’s elections. well, last month, ireland had its first test of right—wing politics, and while the vast majority of the electorate rejected it, we cannot ignore that 23.1% chose to vote for a candidate that preached division. this time, it wasn’t anti-refugee or anti-islam, but instead he chose to target the traveller community and those on social welfare. those of us who believe in equality must stand up and make our voices heard in rejecting the politics of hate and fear, and we must call it out wherever it manifest itself. but we must also address the root causes of discontent among those who vote for such candidates. lack of housing, insecure work, and the politics of pitting one group of individuals against another are simply the outworkings of the neoliberal economic model loved by the so-called ‘centrist’ parties in this house. if we really want to defeat right—wing populism, then we must defeat centrist politics.
the next item is the debate on the interim report by jan olbrycht, isabelle thomas, janusz lewandowski, gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 – parliament’s position with a view to an agreement (a8—0358/2018) (2018/0166r(app)).
colleagues, there are three committees to which i will give the floor later in the debate, they are just not present at the moment, so i am going to move immediately to our speakers from the political groups.
i think minister edtstadler is listening to the debate so do you want to put your question to her? please wait, your microphone was not switched on. when i switch my microphone off then you can continue.
mr president, firstly, i think it’s absolutely vital that all member states commit to a higher budget. many are prepared to do so, but some aren’t. that is the david cameron line. david cameron – we saw where he finished up. i would appeal to all member states to increase the budget because it’s quite obvious that there is added value at european level in terms of climate change, in terms of research. if you do research at european level you have a higher quality and it saves an awful lot of money that would be spent in 27 member states trying to do the same research. so, from that point of view, it’s absolutely vital that we have the budget to do what we can do better for citizens than we can at member state level. erasmus+ has been mentioned. that’s one of the best programmes ever introduced. thousands of students benefit from it. they get a wider perspective on european life, but we need a bigger budget so that more students can take part in it. we have the same situation in relation to defence – not a huge problem for my country, but for other countries it is. and, of course, for agriculture, cap, we talked about reductions – it is not sensible.
mr president, i had the good fortune of chairing most of the debate this morning, and it was fascinating to hear the different views. i have to say, from both the council and commission, you didn’t spare us the reality of how difficult this debate is, but i’m going to speak specifically to those who criticise spending on agriculture – those who feel that we have lots of food and no worries. the truth is we have lots of food, and you perhaps have no worries because we have a common agricultural policy and we take food security for granted. there are many fine words spoken in this chamber about a living countryside and looking after the environment and climate, and you know that will take resources, and therefore i absolutely reject cuts to the agriculture budget, specifically because of those extra challenges but in particular because the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr siekierski, made this point: the incomes for our farmers are much lower than the incomes of others. so let’s be careful how we cut and where we cut. let us have an adequate budget for agriculture.
mr president, i strongly welcome the agreement that was reached on this extremely important directive, which will now require that we meet a 32.5% energy efficiency target at eu level by 2030. member states would be obliged to increase their energy savings by 0.8% each year from 2021 to 2030. this could bring significant benefits, including encouraging the improvement of energy efficiency in our buildings. in the eu our buildings are our largest user, accounting for 40% of our final energy consumption and 38% of emissions. additionally, buildings account for 68% of total gas consumption in europe and 35% of our gas imports. therefore, improving the efficiency of our buildings will not only bring cost savings to energy users but will also make emissions reductions and increase our energy security for reducing import dependency. this legislation goes hand in hand with the energy performance of buildings directive to increased the efficiency of our building stock, 75% of which is highly inefficient in the eu. improving energy efficiency is a win-win situation for us all. well done to markus pieper and all involved.
mr president, i am voting in favour of this report, and i welcome the scope the regulation gives to the commission to ensure that the targets are met and that europe is collectively on track to meet them. as epp rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, i welcome that member states will be required to set out detailed climate and energy plans outlining how they plan to reach the targets. while our renewable energy target is not binding at national level, it is binding collectively, and the commission will be legally required to ensure that it is met. the system we are putting in place in this regard is positive. the commission will assess the draft plans and issue specific recommendations in the event that the plans are not up to scratch. member states will now be legally bound to take due account of these recommendations, and if they do not address the recommendations, they must make the reason public. if the commission concludes that the contributions included in the final plans are not sufficient for the eu to meet the overall targets, the commission will issue recommendations to the relevant member states to increase their ambition. if they do not, the format that we agreed in the renewable energy directive kicks in. i would thank my colleagues, especially ms delahaye, mr hökmark and mr turmes, who has now left after doing much good work.
a uachtaráin, dar ndóigh is fadhb mhór í sa lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá lá actually, to my ama, it was taistil ar an gcine humana for one reason or another. but the problem is much more complex today, than in the countries that are reaching out to europe and especially, they are reaching out to the countries that are not reaching out, and they are reaching out to the inequalities in their own countries. therefore, it is of great importance that we help them today, as well as they can help us. and if you do all that, you'll be more than happy to take care of them. freisin, caithfimid need to chur ar in the united nations, need to chur ar in the third countries to their own to do chomh maith, sa tslí sin is féidir linn help them agus réiteach to fháil ar an bhfadhb seo.
mr president, i think that having a system for additional humanitarian visas across member states is a good idea and should be welcomed. a number of requests for the establishment of such a system have been made and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has duly adopted the own initiative report containing these recommendations after long negotiations. however, the provision of safe and legal pathways on a union—wide basis for entry into european territory has yet to occur. currently humanitarian visas are governed by the national law of member states and there is no union—wide obligation in place. this situation leads to high human social and economic costs. we are all aware of the effects of the migrant crisis, both in terms of the deaths caused and the strain on budgetary requirements for search and rescue operations and asylum procedures. faced with a death toll of 30 000 migrants on european borders since 2000, parliament has rightfully decided to proceed despite the commission’s reluctance. the humanitarian visa framework is a good mechanism to reduce the death toll and combat smuggling, particularly since 90% of migrants enter union territory through irregular means. however, the report still leaves enough autonomy with the member state to decide on the categories of persons that will be involved in the visa system. the eu must stand by its treaty obligations and its human rights commitments in respect of guaranteeing the right of asylum. i think this is a good proposal worthy of consideration.
madam president, firstly congratulations to the rapporteurs, especially my friend pilar del castillo, who has worked on this for many years, as indeed many more colleagues did. i think this is a great example of what the european parliament can achieve. first of all, dealing with the whole roaming situation – the big operators didn’t want us to work on it, they challenged us, but we got there – and then we came along and we did geo-blocking and now we have the cap to calls’ costs to the european union. this is a great success for the european parliament, and indeed for citizens, because we are seen to deliver for them. i think one area we need to focus on though, unfortunately – and in my own country especially – is the lack of high-speed broadband across the european union. it needs to be tackled urgently, and for that reason we would hope that the member states would up their contributions to the european budget so that we can tackle that at a european level and really make this work for everybody.
madam president, having been involved in the whole clean energy package from the outset, i think we can be very pleased with the progress we have made under the leadership of commissioner arias cañete and, indeed, in this file i would like to thank mr eickhout for his good work in this and many other areas. and if we are to deliver on our targets for 2030 and beyond, every sector has to play its part. the transport sector hasn’t done as much as it should have up until now and we are nudging them in the right direction, giving them sensible targets over a period of time. i drive from my home in killarney to dublin twice a week every week, coming to brussels and going back, and the amount of trucks and buses is enormous. unless they are more energy efficient we will never make progress. i think the proposals here for heavy—duty vehicles make a lot of sense, will make a huge difference, and if every sector plays their part, we will meet our targets and we will give world leadership as well. so well done to mr eickhout, commissioner arias cañete and everybody involved.
mr president, i would like to say this: show me where the money is going and you have shown me your policies. the multi-financial framework proposals for 2021—2027 make this clear. it puts fighting before feeding. we are moving from a common plan to feed ourselves to a common plan to go to war. a twenty-two times’ increase in defence spending to pay for this. agriculture, rural development and cohesion funding to take the hit. a sleeping beauty is born all right, and now we are going to have to pay for it. also what is going to take a major hit is the sovereignty of our treasuries moving to a system of own—resources for the european union. what on first viewing seems like something benign enough is in fact another power grab and the beginnings of creating a treasury for the eu. the proposed increase in gni contributions from member states is something i cannot support, because the soup it creates contains ingredients that are indigestible when it comes to ireland’s neutrality.
mr president, we’re talking about a common standard for exports of weapons. how about we adopt a common standard that we stop exporting weapons in the first place? why are we involved in this dirty game? is the european union not already filled with massive resources, which means that we can have a very high quality of life and everything we need, if it was properly distributed, without getting involved in the dirty, filthy low—life business of producing the instruments of death? ireland, for the first time in centuries, has peace. we are lucky to have it. and the reason why we have peace is because we’ve moved out of that area. we’ve started to talk to each other, and as a result of it we now live in a better place. we need higher standards all round here. i’m voting in favour of this report, but, sadly, i have to say it is a floor, a very low floor, like a toilet.
mr president, during the 1999 european elections, i was left devoid of any ability to get my positions across to the electorate due to unfair national influence – not foreign influence, national influence. with one day left to go for the big debate for the election, i was told by the national broadcaster that they would contact me later, after the election. i was gagged. who knew? no—one. in the 2014 elections, i met the same stonewalling. this time, our national broadcaster kept me off the main debate for my constituency. i was instead put in a debate which took place after midnight when everyone – bar those returning from the pub – was tucked up in bed. the major difference between 1999 and 2014 is that i now had the ability through social media to inform the public about what was going on. a hashtag on twitter, #rtebias, went viral. on the night of the debate, people knew. there is no doubt that the power of facebook & co. must be curtailed. their collection of data is phenomenal and their motivation questionable. however, one must also question the motivation of those who wish to limit its power – the same people who stayed quiet when my voice was gagged and my words were twisted in the past by ‘old’ media.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the extraterritorial effects of us sanctions on iran for european companies (2018/2922(rsp)).
i’m sorry, sir, but your time is up. we didn’t hear the rest of your contribution because i had to cut the microphone.
the debate is closed.
colleagues, our next sitting is tomorrow, thursday, 15 november at 9.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website. you may know that the united kingdom cabinet has agreed the draft brexit withdrawal deal earlier this evening. it has just been published, and some of us may spend the evening reading the 585 pages of that text.
mr president, and thanks to our rapporteur. i’m very conscious, colleagues, that there are carers who have not slept overnight because they’re looking after a sick child, a person with a disability or elderly parents, and the statistics that 80% of care is unpaid and informal and that 75% of it is done by women are worth repeating. this isn’t just an ideological debate or about money; this is about the type of society we want for the future. we are going to face an enormous challenge in encouraging people to get into the paid care sector because it is low-paid, and indeed we have smaller families, so we will have fewer people who are available to care. and maybe for selfish reasons those of us of a certain age in this house might ponder those difficulties. so i think this debate should be about a vision for the future, where people who care are cared for by others and have respite and recognition.
thank you, president. i hope that members of the medical profession are listening to this debate, because it has been quite interesting that, across the house from all member states, what we are hearing from patients is that they are not being listened to when they visit their general practitioner. that is perhaps because there isn’t sufficient awareness of the myriad symptoms of lyme disease, but we certainly need greater awareness among the first port of call, which is the medical practitioners in the local clinics. i want to compliment tick talk ireland. they have been tirelessly campaigning to raise awareness about this disease. they want patient—centric best practices, and we support them in that. i have read some terrible stories of people who are suffering chronic conditions because of lyme disease misdiagnosis and lack of treatment. this is a really important debate; it is about the health of our citizens, and i want to thank the commission for the answers you have given to our questions today.
mr president, last sunday week in my own town, killarney, there was a group from the men’s shed – a hundred of them – and they got the european citizens prize this year. they came to help control the rhododendron, which is a beautiful plant but is invasive in our national park. also in our national park, we have a very famous herd of deer, and as part of the preparation for their work, they were given an outline on lyme disease and what steps they should take to ensure they wouldn’t go back home with it, and i think one of the key points mentioned there was that within 48 hours one is safe enough if a tick attaches itself to your body and it’s removed. i think that’s the key point here. we must create awareness and encourage people to check their bodies, especially if they are in parks where there are deer, etc., and remove the tick promptly. that will ensure that nothing will happen. so i welcome what the commissioner has said in creating awareness and research, etc., because there’s up to a million people affected in europe and we need to help them.
mr president, and apologies, i’m just arriving, we were at a vote in the committee on employment and social affairs but i thank you for this one minute. commissioner, my office has been listening to your responses and, i have to say, i’m not fully satisfied with your response on the need for a proper, harmonised approach to diagnosis. the truth is that many people who have lyme disease are undiagnosed and this is a double whammy for people who suffer from this most debilitating disease. i know in ireland many patients have to go abroad so that they can be properly tested. it’s very expensive for them, many of them have suffered for many years and they cannot get a diagnosis in ireland. specialists and doctors will tell them: clinically, the results say you’re fine. they go abroad and they get a diagnosis of lyme disease. i believe that the eu can act in a much stronger way by strongly encouraging a harmonised, accurate test for lyme disease so that all eu citizens can have access to timely and accurate diagnosis.
on behalf of the ppe group. – i condemn the types of practices mentioned in this resolution and call on the vietnamese authorities to release anyone it has imprisoned for exercising their fundamental right. i would also call for the criminal code to be reassessed and any laws which restrict these basic undertakings. in my opinion, vietnam should ratify all human rights treaties of the united nations, and cannot be seen to take human rights seriously until having done so. at the same time, having visited vietnam a couple of years ago on a mission on behalf of inta, i know vietnam to be a wonderful, beautiful country with exceptionally nice and decent people. but i must stand up to this injustice and insist that it stop occurring. the relationship between the eu and vietnam is a great one but full respect of the fundamental rights to freedom of expression, association, and peaceful assembly must be respected on both sides and the eu should work with vietnam to ensure this can happen.
mr president, we have to accept your decision. i understand that, but normally there are at least five taken. you have a request for six. it was four extra minutes. we lost several minutes all along, but we have to accept your decision. it was unnecessary though.
mr president, thank you very much. i should have raised this at the beginning, but i did not want to delay members. yesterday, on the final vote on humanitarian visas, there was controversy: it fell 26 votes short of the overall majority required, and at that stage 81 members had left or did not vote. i think the controversy could be avoided in future if, when there are votes that require a majority of the constituent members, it should be put higher up the list. you can see every day that there are far more voting in the middle or thereabouts. at the end, for one reason or another, members will have to leave to catch planes or have other meetings. so this controversy could be avoided with a bit of common sense by the conference of presidents if they put votes that required a majority of our constituent members higher up the list when you would have all those who were eligible to vote here. it was reasonable to suggest that, when it was only 26 votes short and 349 voted in favour, if it was higher up the list then it would have got the required majority. i just want to make that point as a suggestion for the conference of presidents.
mr president, i welcome this report also, after some compromises. rail travel is such an important part of our shared european identity, and it is imperative that this is done properly, seeing that hundreds and thousands of europeans travel by rail every day. citizens deserve to know their rights when they travel, and deserve to have all information available to them before, during and after travel. cancellations and delays have become almost expected across many rail providers. this should not happen, but if it must occur for some unavoidable reason then passengers should be compensated properly, and i am delighted to see it being discussed and voted upon today. although a small country, ireland’s citizens make use of our rail system and iarnród éireann provide an excellent service, but these regulation updates are still extremely welcome and can only serve to benefit customers and providers in the long run. so i am very pleased to support it.
mr president, i welcome today’s vote on lyme disease and the calls made for greater ambition to improve diagnostics treatment and prevention of this disease. it will help give a voice to all those who suffer from lyme and associated tick-borne diseases. infected ticks and lyme disease are spreading geographically, driven by climate change and land-use change. symptoms can go unnoticed and often doctors are not trained in looking for those symptoms, thereby delaying medical intervention. current diagnostic tests are also not reliable enough. the antibody-based only test is 30% to 50% accurate and the pcr test is only 62% accurate. this means that the actual number of lyme cases is much higher than what is believed. it is crucial to focus our attention on the sharing of best practice, patient—centred research and patient—centric guidelines. patients must be involved in any new developments. i welcome the inclusion of lyme disease on the eu list of communicable diseases and epidemiological surveillance to facilitate the monitoring of the eu distribution of the disease.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, within the german youth welfare office, the jugendamt, it has come to the attention of the european parliament that there appears to be alleged discrimination against non-german parents in family disputes on parental responsibility and child custody. one of the main issues that has been highlighted to the committee on petitions (peti) is the alleged impossibility for a non-german spouse to have contact with their child even during supervised visits, notably because of the strictly applied language rules whereby only the german language can be used. if this is the case, it is of course extremely distressing for parents and children. the jugendamt plays a central, important role in the german family law system as it is one of the prior parties in all family disputes involving children, and so these accusations should be taken seriously. it is important to mention, though, that fact-finding missions have not found any systemic failures. but, in my opinion, if there are many concerns like this coming from parents, then reassurances should be given and cases should be looked at. discrimination of any kind is not acceptable and, while i would need further evidence and rulings to determine if this is a case of discrimination, the petitions brought forward at least highlight that there is a perception of such by some in this case, and that perhaps measures could be taken to eliminate any possibility of this. i think these cases should be looked into, but let us reserve judgment until we have more information. of course, at the end of the day, the child’s best interests must be paramount in all decisions related to childcare. finally, i just want to say that it’s important to point out that peti also received similar complaints from at least three other member states. so perhaps a more union—wide, global approach would be desirable to address these issues rather than perhaps honing in on one particular country.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the strategy for long-term eu greenhouse gas emissions reduction in accordance with the paris agreement (2018/2941(rsp)). we have two commissioners with us this evening. you are both very welcome. i will now give the floor to vice—president šefčovič, who is also responsible for the energy union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, this is an ambitious strategy. on paper it’s aiming to keep all member states on board and reacting to the alarm bells from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) un special report. if it’s lived up to, it would be a step in the right direction, but is the strategy really safeguarded, given that it is so dependent on the strong political will that we need across the board in every single member state. if we want to be serious about curbing global warming at 1.5° celsius rather than 2°, we have to make sure we are providing a realistic chance to achieve this. we firstly need to avoid factoring in reliance on technologies that are not even proven yet. we cannot cross our fingers with techno-fixes when it comes to the climate. secondly, to ensure that this target is actually achieved and that we don’t miss it, has the commission considered any pathways looking at reaching carbon neutrality already by 2040? taking account of the eu’s huge responsibility for historical emissions, logically we should be aiming for zero net emissions before 2050. we are talking about human existence on this planet, so we cannot risk missing this contribution to curbing global warming at 1.5°.
the president, the vice-president and the commissioner shall be appointed by the president. the challenge is to reduce carbon emissions by 2050 oh, that's a little awkward. so as one who represented parliament at cop 21 and 22 and will be at cop 24 in poland, and as the rapporteur for the renewable energy file here for the epp group, i welcome these announcements today. also, i think that we are being ambitious, regardless of what people say, and as the commissioner said: "if we don't lead, nobody will follow". europe is doing that and i think that's what we need to do. i'm going to mention something i haven't mentioned before, and that is those who might be left behind. i welcome the emphasis on the socio-economic impact. citizens and workers were made redundant in my own constituency. in bord móna has announced 430 job losses because of the closure of peat factories or power stations. i would be the last person to say these should be left open obviously they shouldn't, but we do need to show empathy with these people and i think there are opportunities for us to have a just transition fund at national level to use the mff. i am the rapporteur for my group on investeu. all these possibilities need to be explored so that no one is left behind. this is a very important point. i think if we do that, we can make progress, but it has to be inclusive and fair, and i think we can bring citizens with us in that way.
mr president, without doubt the single market is probably the single best example of what europe has done in its time, and i suppose it has helped to create jobs, it has helped to create wealth. my own country is probably as good an example as you’ll get. one of the poorest countries when we joined in 1973, now one of the wealthiest and fastest growing economies, because it opened up a market of 500 million people to us basically free of charge. my friend paul rubig mentioned what we can achieve when we work together, particularly in relation to the roaming charges, which has been hugely beneficial to businesses and indeed individuals, probably knocking 50% off their phone bills every month. so for that reason one wonders why is there a reluctance to complete the single market. i just don’t understand it, and my question for commissioner bieńkowska is how much can she achieve in the next 12 months? maybe not all but everything would be a help. how much realistically can be achieved?
a uachtaráin, in éirinn lets families spend their time on the farm or there go there. the laws of the land are the laws of the people, and the laws of the land are the laws of the people. fhine gael should be ashamed as fhianna fáil, and as many millions as the european union itself. when that unsustainable situation is in question, the bank should take the smaller amount. you should go to the bathroom and talk to the naked farmers and the hired men. we're not going to have a huge financial crisis and we're not going to pay for it. it's clear that the cost of a bathroom in a morgue is much higher than the cost of a vulture's funds. he's a member of the vulture funds, and he's buying land to build a new mill. we are now in the european union: instead of giving things to the poor, we should give things to the poor and give support to the citizens; that is what we are!
good morning. my apologies for the slight delay. i think some people had difficulty with traffic this morning, so thank you for your patience. the sitting is now open. (the sitting opened at 9.06) before we move to the first item on the agenda, there is a point of order from mr corbett.
thank you, mr corbett. your point is noted. it was a decision of the political groups to have this format. i’m in the hands of the decision of the political groups, but i think your point is well taken by the plenary.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the uk’s withdrawal from the european union 2018/2958(rsp)).
(exclamations by certain members of parliament) colleagues, i am in the chair, so i will call time, with due respect. thank you for your guidance, but you will respect the chair please.
thank you, mr barnier, and could i thank you on behalf of the parliament and president tajani for your work with parliament on this issue, your transparency and, above all else, your patience. if i may say on a personal note, the word ‘rubbish’ has been bandied about. mr coburn, you use it frequently. it is not the view of the majority of this house. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, the cum-ex tax fraud scheme, as has been mentioned, has cost eu countries a reported 55 billion: a huge sum of money. through complex share deals with no economic purpose other than to receive tax reimbursements from the state and no actual tax being paid, european citizens have, to put it bluntly, been robbed. the eu has made significant progress in tackling money laundering and tax fraud. however, the cum-ex scandal has shown that there is still a gap in effective implementation, enforcement and administrative cooperation between member states. this scandal has, naturally, caused outrage across europe. urgent coordinated action at eu level is needed. this kind of large-scale tax fraud needs to be clamped down on, and we must assess the strength of the laws we have in place to this end.
the president, of course, has to work with the people to do what he wants, and he has to give himself a few hours to do it. but in that case, i would completely agree that the right of the parents, especially to be in constant communication with their children, is not the only thing that matters, and i would also vote against the report, but really it is the only thing that matters, and it is the only thing that matters. freisin, die coiste peti said three things about the other, therefore, we should look at them all together and focus on one thing. i was myself, and i agree with the laws and the responsibility here.
madam president, i welcome the approval drafted by mr lange and mr rübig regarding the modernisation of the world trade organization and the way in which it operates. i welcome this report, as i believe this change is essential in order to make the wto more relevant and adaptive to a changing, more globalised world, while strengthening the effectiveness of the organisation itself. i believe this legislation will help to overcome the difficulties and the failure of the ministerial conference held in buenos aires last december and deliver on some of the issues of the dda. this legislation, if passed, will address the current gaps in the rule book, which create an uneven playing field in regards to subsidies and state—owned enterprises as well as regulatory barriers to services and investments. this legislation also looks at creating the necessary framework to cope with technological developments, including e-commerce, global value change and smes. a uachtaráin, is jab maith é, comhghairdeas le lange agus rübig.
a uachtaráin, tuigimid ar fad, is dócha, mar mhná go bhfuil go leor constaicí agus dúshlán ann ach, dream to be mar bhean atá faoi mhíchumas agus feictear ansin agus tuigtear in dúshláin ollmhóra are accused. a uachtaráin, tuigimid ar fad, is dócha, mar mhná go bhfuil go leor constaicí agus dúshlán ann ach, dream to be mar bhean atá faoi mhíchumas agus feictear ansin agus tuigtear in dúshláin ollmhóra are accused. a uachtaráin, tuigimid ar fad, is dócha, mar mhná go bhfuil go leor constaicí agus dúshlán ann ach, dream to be mar bhean atá faoi mhíchumas agus feictear ansin agus agus tuigtear in the dúshláin ollmhóra are accused. shows a report that's sin go maith. in the european union, 18.8% of women under the age of 18 are employed, compared with 35% of men. we should not accept these laws, we are not happy with them, but i think we should welcome the fact that the report is being debated. ah, it's under the states and it's not being enforced. we can start with support from the government, so that there are equal opportunities in education, health and sport, and to ensure that women with disabilities have a full part in our lives in terms of education, voting and other current challenges. but, once again, it is so important that the member states take the necessary measures to ensure that the benefits are immediate.
mr president, on a point of order, when we speak of human rights, you will be aware that four of the nine catalan political prisoners have embarked on a hunger strike. considering that two of these political prisoners are former members of this house and that their crimes amount to that of allowing people to vote to determine their own future, can i ask you, mr president, when you intend to make a statement on this matter, knowing as you must do that the silence of eu leaders makes the eu institutions complicit in the spanish government’s disregard for international norms relating to democracy and human rights? (applause)
mr president, first, let me make it clear that i welcome the principle behind this proposal. it is important to ensure access to studies and, indeed, to allow the european food safety authority (efsa) to have better access to relevant scientific evidence. this is all in the interest of transparency and public safety, which is paramount in everything we do as legislators. however, i have some concerns with the report that has been tabled for plenary this week, and i think we need to be careful about this vote and ensure that we find a more sensible, pragmatic and balanced approach to tackling this important issue. it is important that we give more careful consideration to what this proposed regulation is requiring of companies in terms of when the publication of information and underlying studies in relation to applications is due. in the text tabled by the committee, and indeed in the commission proposal, food companies would need to inform efsa immediately of the subject matter of studies commissioned. i feel we need to be careful here, and consider further the impact this immediate notification could have on innovation in the food sector. i share the fears which the rapporteur had during the committee negotiations that there could be a danger of ideas piracy, and that this could result in a perceived lack of protection for eu companies’ intellectual property. maintaining the competitiveness of our eu food industry is extremely important for workers, farmers and citizens alike, and so we should ensure balance in imposing such an obligation. i welcome the suggestions by my colleague ms sommer for making the proposal more workable, including the requirement that efsa should first draft a preliminary opinion, after which point the studies and non-confidential application material could be made public.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank parliament for organising this joint debate on the revised founding regulations for the three eu agencies, namely the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) in thessaloniki, the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) based in bilbao, and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) based in dublin. through their eu-wide service, analysis, collection and dissemination of good practices, these agencies have provided us, the commission, parliament and the member states with important data to inform our policy-making in the areas of labour and social policy. they have also developed tools to help with policy implementation. cedefop and eurofound are two of the oldest agencies of the european union, as the rapporteurs rightly said. they were created in 1975. eu—osha is their younger sister, we could say: it was created in 1994. the world of work has changed significantly since the establishment of these agencies and that is why the time was right to update the regulations so as to reflect better the current economic and social context. we also needed to align the three regulations, as much as possible, with the common approach on these centralised agencies, which was endorsed by parliament, the council and the commission in july 2012. we are bringing them to you as a package: three revised regulations for the three tripartite agencies serving governmental actors, representatives of workers and employers. i would like to pay tribute to the three rapporteurs who worked on their own and as a team on these revisions – anne sander for cedefop, czesław hoc for eu-osha, and enrique calvet chambon for eurofound. their clear understanding of the challenges faced by the agencies, their determination and their spirit of compromise made it possible to reach a balanced agreement with the council on our proposals. let me give you an overview of the main changes that the new founding regulations will introduce. i will start with two important points for parliament. for the first time, an independent expert appointed by the european parliament will become a member of the management board of each agency. this will allow parliament to follow the work of the agencies more effectively, and parliament will also have an exchange of views with the candidate for the post of director before his/her appointment. secondly, more emphasis is being placed on cooperation between the agencies when it comes to horizontal administrative tasks, promoting synergies and complementarity in their activities, while avoiding duplication of effort. thirdly, the new founding regulations define more clearly the tasks of the management board (currently called ‘governing board’), the executive board (currently called ‘bureau’) and the executive director. next, the management board of each agency, and not the commission, will now be appointing the executive director. finally, other rules in terms of programming, budget, staff and evaluation have been aligned with the common approach. complete alignment was not always possible, and here i would recall the commission’s declaration on all those elements that depart from the common approach. the new founding regulations also maintain what currently works well, such as the tripartite composition of the management and executive boards. having been a member of the management board of eurofound a long time ago, i can attest that the tripartite composition provides added value. for me, it is a key feature of the agencies. let me now give you examples of the provisions introduced for specific agencies, first eurofound. it has tripartite advisory committees, which evaluate and follow up on eurofound’s projects, and these committees are now explicitly mentioned in the founding regulation, which was not the case under the current regulation. there will also be a clear role for the eurofound director in appointing his/her deputy. this should benefit the functioning of the agency. for eu-osha, i welcome the fact that the regulation now clearly mentions that the agency will pay particular attention to the specific challenges of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, when it comes to health and safety at work, and the new text also recognises health as covering both physical and mental health. lastly, cedefop’s founding regulation will now cover education in general and vocational education and training (vet) in particular, in accordance with articles 165 and 166 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this reflects the enlarged scope of cedefop’s activities, as they have evolved over the years. the agencies need these changes in order to be able to continue providing high-quality outputs in a changing economic and social environment. therefore, i am counting on the house to adopt the new founding regulations with a large majority. i thank you very much for all your work. commission statement(in writing) the commission regrets that the co-legislators have decided to deviate on several points from the common approach of the parliament, the council and the commission on decentralised agencies of 19 july 2012, without providing the necessary justification. the deletion of the sunset/review clause is not in line with the common approach. however, the absence of the sunset clause in the founding regulations will not affect in any way the commission’s right of initiative. the commission also regrets the deviation from the common approach with regard to the process for conducting an overall evaluation of the agency referring to the need to consult stakeholders, including members of parliament and of the management board, during the evaluation of the work of agencies. the commission recalls that such evaluations have to be conducted in full independence. in carrying out evaluations, the commission will apply its usual practices for stakeholder consultation activities. the commission will assess the impact of the deviations from the common approach on the functioning of the tripartite agencies at the appropriate opportunity. they should not be considered as a precedent for other agencies. finally, the commission regrets the re-introduction of the function of deputy director in the founding regulation of eurofound. the commission would like to recall that, given the size of this agency, this provision is disproportionate. the commission would also like to stress that it is now the executive director’s responsibility to decide on the internal structures of each agency and for cedefop to define the necessary deputising arrangements to ensure continuity of service.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the revision of the regulation on the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) will, i believe, significantly help to ensure more coordinated, efficient and streamlined work-streams. the greater synergies between all three agencies will enable significant knowledge-sharing and efficiency gains. this will reinforce cedefop’s role in providing evidence-based information and analysis, as well as tools, and that, of course, is pivotal for better decision-making. i believe that the tripartite nature of cedefop is important, in terms of its roles as an expression of social dialogue, as a link to citizens and as an expert adviser. transparency has also been improved, with new rules on preventing and managing conflicts of interests at all levels. finally, i’d like to commend cedefop’s initiative on a new strand of work on digitalisation and the future of work. this is timely and relevant, and it will benefit all our citizens.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on these reports, which look at three european agencies that certainly help the development of policies in terms of education, training, working conditions and health and safety in work. the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is one of the oldest. it was established in 1975, as the commissioner said, but i think it plays a very important role in identifying the skills and further education that are required, for young people in particular and indeed from a lifelong learning point of view. this is more and more relevant today than ever now because we do not know what jobs will be there tomorrow and what jobs will be needed for us, so we need to continue to develop the skills, training and education required for those courses. in my own country last week, we had a report in our newspapers on access to third level education from schools. league tables were produced. i kind of disagree with it, but i think what our media should be looking at is the schools that actually do help young people to gain relevant training, whether it be an apprenticeship or a further education model, and suitable employment. i think that in itself would be a much better level of success of our schools, rather than how many students they send to third level education. we have a lot to learn and a long way to go, but i think a reformed eurofound, and indeed solas in our own country, that provide such support in terms of education and training are very welcome in today’s age.
thank you. for the information of the house, i won’t be taking blue cards during the first round of speakers, of the group leaders.
madam president, once again the european council will meet to respond to the british government’s shambolic brexit process, and once again the council must remain resolute that the irish backstop cannot be renegotiated. brexit, any brexit, will be bad for ireland north and south. the backstop is a mechanism to reduce the damage. nothing more. but the clear lesson learned from this process is one that many of us already knew, that british leaders do not give a single damn about any part of ireland, including the part over which they hold jurisdiction. evidence of this can be seen from the comment by a tory mp that britain should threaten ireland with food shortages – perhaps an attempt to starve us once again! so the commons vote can be postponed, but the backstop cannot be altered. we need the continued support of this house to ensure that that is the case, and we will need the support of this house to move towards the inevitable outworking of the lesson that has been learned from the brexit process. as more and more people across ireland recognise that irish unity is the ultimate response to british political failures, we will be seeking the support of the eu in the time ahead to deliver that solution.
the uachtaráin, is the focal point of this important debate. i refer to brexit not by choice but by necessity, as i understand that many are now probably brexit weary. but in light of developments in the house of commons and in westminster, i want to refer to the backstop. but actually i don't need to say anything because, in fairness to donald tusk, he in his tweet has said what i want to say: "we will not renegotiate the deal, including the backstop, but we are ready to discuss how to facilitate uk ratification", and that about sums it up. we cannot renegotiate the backstop because it is an insurance policy against a return to violence in the island of ireland nobody wants that. and in fairness to theresa may, she's doing her best and we would like to help her, because she's at least being constructive unlike many of our colleagues around her. i will leave it at that. i also want to refer briefly to the multiannual financial framework. in this regard, i quote our esteemed president juncker, who said, 'we need to ensure that those priorities are adequately funded in the next long-term budget so that they become reality'. and one of those priorities for parliament is to ensure that our farmers can maintain the level of cap funding they have at the moment. this is vital not just for them, but also for rural areas. and it would also show, i think, that europe is a europe for citizens, and especially those who are most disadvantaged. so i hope that can be done as well.
thank you. just to repeat: i don’t take blue cards in the group speaker list, so the first round of speakers will be without blue cards.
mr coburn, just for the record, that statement would have been appropriate for the last debate, but because i am open and we want to let people be heard, we allowed you to speak.
can i also say that personally i find the remarks around punishment beatings about the european union to be entirely inappropriate, but again we are a house that allows for freedom of speech.
yes, and appropriate language also helps.
let me move to our next speaker, mr rangel, for one—and—a—half minutes.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.43 pending the vote)
mr president, i welcome this report and the admirable progress being made under the life programme fund. the commission has proposed that the focus of the 2021 programme should be on the eu’s transition towards a low—carbon circular economy and contribute to the widespread use of clean energy sources. as the ppe group’s rapporteur for the revised renewable energy directive, i am very pleased to support this transition. with an ambitious target secured for 32% of the energy used in the eu by 2030 to come from renewable energy sources, there will be a big increase in the deployment of renewable energy across the eu and, in light of this, it is very encouraging to see a strong backing from funds such as the life programme. the programme has financed over 4500 projects to date – among them, programmes in my own constituency, such as the kerrylife project and others. i hope this progress will continue throughout the eu, and particularly in my own constituency of ireland south.
the president, by a majority vote, approved the report and took it to the next stage of the work programme. the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european union's new health and safety legislation, which is intended to help to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is complied with. and i'm obligated to put my past to the test and to help them, and if they're not going to be able to do that, we'll do it. i would like to finish by saying that i have been here for the last time and now i have a place of my own in ireland, in the name of the people who live around the chóbh i gco.
mr president, what is security to me? security is having a place to put your head down. security is to be loved. security is to have a full belly. in cities, towns and villages across ireland and other parts of the eu, this is not possible. you say, ‘how could this be so in ireland – it’s booming?’ tell that to the three people who took their lives in the last month in my town. it’s the same all across europe – people in despair. why? because they do not feel secure. does europe have a plan to deal with these insecurities? are we currently preparing an action plan with high priority, an action plan to build houses, enrich our education system and unclog our health system? no, we are not. why? apparently, we can’t afford it. however, we are preparing an action plan with high priority to get us ready for war: an action plan that will cost the eu eur 6.5 billion; a plan that makes it easier for the machines of death to become more mobile across the european continent. this is not security. this is stupidity.
mr president, i welcome the work that has been done during the lifetime of this special committee. this was a substantial piece of work for the rapporteurs and shadows involved, and i think that the report that was tabled, while not perfect, makes some extremely important points. i welcome the point on the creation of the european resilience prize for the best social and cultural project at local level in the eu. this will be important in promoting social engagement and it can help to build societies that are resistant to radicalisation. i also welcome the call on the member states to remove any printed and online propaganda that explicitly incites violent extremism and terrorist acts. this is an important inclusion, as social media can be an extremely effective tool to radicalise people. linked to this, the call to set up an online european platform for citizens to flag online terrorist content could be very effective and empower citizens to act when they come across such content online. finally, i also welcome an erasmus for police officers and the eu intelligence academy. i think those two proposals are very positive.
madam president, this is great news, particularly for european citizens because they are the people who are going to benefit most in the end. there is great credit due to the commissioners, especially commissioner malmström who has worked so hard not just on this agreement but on other agreements across the globe. i’m very conscious of the work in singapore, which we hope to ratify in the new year, and all this is because of good interaction, good engagement and seeing the possibilities. it’s a win-win situation. let’s not forget, it’s very important for japan as well as for europe – and the geographical indications are, i think, particularly important too. i know, for instance, that irish whiskey is going to be protected in japan for the first time – a huge opportunity to develop that area, and indeed other agri-food sectors as well. (applause)i’ll bring you some after christmas! so i think that we have to emphasise to our citizens that this is a great opportunity for them and that the european union can work for them when we all pull together. cheers to that! irish whiskey to you all!
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, at the outset, wished to make my colleague aware of the fact that the market was being sold in strasbourg and that there was a great deal of confusion about it. i would like to thank the uasal viotti and the team who have made this project possible. however, the challenge is to increase the prices for 2019 and to avoid falling short of the target, while at the same time ensuring that the money is available in the member states without being used and that it is not ineffective, as has been shown by the reduction in prices for farmers and fishermen. especially when we talk about the context of breatimeachta, there's no doubt that next year there will be big changes in our direction and we're not going to be able to do that again, but i think that we're going to be able to do that again, and that's going to be a lot more. oh, no, no, no. we're not afraid of their laws. but a beard is better than a hair. it is a pity that climate issues are not addressed in an appropriate way; it is also a pity that, above all, things like erasmus are not addressed: this is for the sake of those who are already rich and who are already in the situation. mar sin is mor an trua nach raibh níos mó comhionannais ann i ngach aon ghné den bhuiséad seo, ach ag an am céanna gabhaim buíochas leis an uasal viotti. it is a sin to be so ungrateful to the people of the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr ehler for his work on this file. we have worked closely together on it and i think it is a very, very exciting project, as commissioner moedas has pointed out. following on from horizon 2020, which led to many major research and innovation developments in europe, i think horizon europe can continue that and empower researchers and scientists over the next number of years. i also welcome the recommendation for eur 120 billion – up from eur 94.1 billion – and i do hope that the member states can move to parliament’s position in that regard. the more we spend on research and innovation the better for our citizens. additionally, i’d like to thank them for taking on board some key amendments of mine, particularly the recognition of the important role for technology platforms in setting out the research agenda. this ensures the research community can work with the commission in identifying the key strategic priorities. i do have one slight problem. it’s more than a slight problem: it’s a big problem, and that is – and i have spoken to mr christian ehler, and indeed my group about this tonight – the proportionate cut in terms of agriculture, food and natural resources from the commission’s 10.6% to 9% at a time when there are huge challenges for the agricultural sector in meeting the needs of food security and emissions reductions, in line with the paris agreement. however, having said that, this is a very positive development and i look forward to working with everybody to ensure that we have an ambitious framework that will keep the eu at the forefront of global innovation which, as mr ehler pointed out, is so important for us.
mr president, i want to address the elephant in the room, which is the ease in which eu institutions can ignore or miss the recommendations made by the ombudsman. as an example – and i want to commend ombudsman o’reilly for insisting that ecb president mario draghi resign his membership of the secret bankers’ club, the g30 – the outcome of the process of investigating and reporting has been that nothing has changed. less than a fortnight ago, mr draghi took part in another g30 meeting in new york. the ecb is charged with directly supervising many of the financial institutions that are represented in the g30, including goldman sachs, jp morgan and many more. there is no system in place to ensure an ethically appropriate level of distance between the ecb decision-making and supervisory processes and their friends in the g30 bankers’ club. there is no way to ensure that the private bankers and finance ceos of the g30 don’t influence ecb policy. mr draghi’s membership of the g30 is beyond inappropriate. the ecb appears to believe that it is beyond the basic norms of public scrutiny, accountability and transparency, and it faces no consequences for its outright rejection of the ombudsman’s report. so this parliament needs to address this situation as a matter of utmost urgency. the eu needs to impose real consequences on any institution that simply dismisses or ignores the recommendations of our ombudsman’s office.
a uachtaráin, is tír álainn is an égypt ag ár dteorainn ag an deisceart. ta gaol maith againn lei agus is maith sin. what is that? it's called dul chun cinn. but at the same time, i would like to say that we should expect to see a lot of progress in the fight against terrorism, especially in the area of human rights and the protection of people who are in prison for reasons of justice. it is therefore right and proper to be informed of matters in parliament. the result can be seen in the report itself, but a few years ago, i myself and my colleagues in ireland were working on a report on ibrahim halawa - feared to be jailed for a crime, tried again - and after the report, it was linked to the case. you're in ireland now. therefore, we can no longer rely on the egyptian authorities to enforce the laws on these grounds, and with god's help, we will be able to do so, as ibrahim halawa has done.
author. – mr president, i reiterate the call to member states to encourage third countries, such as tanzania, to protect lgbti human rights defenders and to decriminalise homosexuality, as is happening in many countries around the world. the deteriorating state of human rights in tanzania is blocking the country’s development, prosperity, peace and security, and indeed good relations with other countries, including the european union. i welcome the call to review restrictions placed on the press and to respect the right to life and dignity of all citizens. the exclusion of pregnant girls and adolescent mothers from schools is a matter of extreme concern and a very backward approach. these young women have a right to access quality education and it is crucial that tanzania ends this ban immediately. i support vice-president / high representative mogherini in her work in trying to bring sense to this chaotic situation.
blue-card question. – how can the honourable deputy say we are wasting our time and that people don’t know what the european union is when, as i pointed out in the debate on egypt, we had a resolution here on ibrahim halawa and subsequent to that resolution, with pressure from the commission and the irish government, the egyptians agreed to release him?
