the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
i would like to begin by wishing you all a happy new year. on the 30th anniversary of the sakharov prize, we have a duty not only to remember but also to protect the winners of this prize: i am the symbol of all those who fight for human rights in the world. some of them are in a dangerous situation and we must remember that the member of parliament leyla zana, winner of the sakharov prize in 1995, has just been dismissed from the turkish grand national assembly. as president of parliament, i would like to express to you the solidarity of the whole european parliament, because it is not acceptable in a democracy for a representative elected by the people to be illegitimately removed from office. (applause) i would like to thank i also want to express my concern about the repeated violations of human rights in turkey, which are harmful not only to political opponents but also to representatives of civil society, including journalists and academics. among the many i would like to mention nuriye gülmen, semih özakça, osman kavala, mehmet altan and şahin alpay. the european parliament will not fail to support the struggle of these people for freedom and justice. (applause) i would like to thank
as you know, on wednesday morning, after the presentation of the programme of the bulgarian presidency by prime minister borissov, the first debate on the future of europe will take place, with the taoiseach taking the floor. it is a very important meeting for us and will be the first in a long series of meetings with a number of other prime ministers, which will put parliament at the centre of the debate on the future of the union. i would like to inform you that in order to have a more spontaneous, interactive and inclusive exchange, it has been decided to introduce a new format for this debate, which will be a genuine 'catch-the-eye' so that all members who wish to speak can ask for the floor and have a chance to express themselves. of course, not everyone will be able to speak because of the time limit, but i will try to be as balanced as possible and to respect the diversity that exists in this house, provided that the catch-the-eye will respect the relative weight of the political groups. i thank the taoiseach for accepting our invitation and for agreeing to this innovative format.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 11 january 2018. the following amendments were tabled: monday's report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fishery products and amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fishery products. this request is supported by the greens/efa and efdd groups.
mr verhofstadt, thank you for reminding me of this possibility.
the sovereign aula will decide. i put to the vote by roll call the proposal by the gue/ngl group to postpone the debate and vote on the report by mr mato on the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of marine ecosystems through technical measures. (parliament rejected the request) tuesday i have received a request from the gue/ngl group to add an oral question on the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons as the fourth item on the agenda for this afternoon.
i understand, mr lamberts, that you are proposing to postpone this debate until february. mr. viegas, are you going to keep your offer?
we shall put to the vote by roll call the request of the gue/ngl group to add as the fourth item on the agenda for tomorrow afternoon an oral question on the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. (parliament rejected the request)
we'll check it out and get back to you. thursday i have received a request from gue/ngl to add as the second item on the agenda for the morning debate the commission statement on collective redundancies in competitive enterprises in europe: the siemens case.
the committee on petitions has also tabled a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens have denounced, in hundreds of petitions, the difficulties and obstacles which are holding back the spread of renewable energies. they have been calling loudly for a stable, clear and transparent regulatory framework, not retroactive, to concretely promote the use, self-production and self-consumption of renewable energy. the opinion of the committee on petitions put these demands in black and white, called for an increase from 27 to 35% for the union's target for the share of renewable energy consumption by 2030 and called for the reintroduction of binding national targets, which are crucial if we want to be credible in the union's energy transition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. but it requires more courage, more ambition, more consistency and less hypocrisy. the five star movement needs an ambitious but achievable 45% target to quickly project ourselves into the future of energy, which we want to be renewable, for the benefit of the climate, the environment, employment, and conceived as a common good and as a right for all.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many points which are very important to us in this energy package. one concerns the eu's anti-pollution regulations, which exist for all sectors but not for geothermal energy. in italy, for example, mercury emissions from the 34 geothermal power stations, according to the only official data available for the tuscany region, are equal to 1.5 tonnes of mercury per year. the union has banned conventional thermometers containing as little as two grams each; so it's as if around the geothermal plants in italy, in a small area, 750,000 thermometers break down every year. in the same year, 16 000 tonnes of hydrogen sulphide and 6 000 tonnes of ammonia are released into the atmosphere. these quantities are not even included in the eu's inventories of polluting emissions. in addition, some types of geothermal power plants emit more climate-altering gases over their life cycle than fossil-fuel power plants of equal capacity, but receive incentives for union climate targets. for the union, geothermal energy with a high environmental impact is as if it did not exist: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have tabled amendments (357 and 358) to the report on the renewable energy directive to the effect that the european commission should study the problem of geothermal emissions in order to assess whether or not an ad hoc legislative proposal on geothermal energy is necessary for a truly sustainable, emission-free geothermal energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, investing in renewables is not just about the planet, it is also about saving european industry, jobs and our growth prospects. alongside the astonishing advances in technology, the paradigm of policy has finally changed - as some of the speakers have already said - from environmentalism to economic competitiveness. renewables, which were seen as a loss-making investment years ago, are now a very real challenge for world powers such as the united states, china and japan. we in europe have a lot of technological and industrial excellence, we have one of the richest markets on the planet to absorb and develop this excellence. we just have to be careful not to throw this heritage away to pursue false neoliberal myths. the technological revolutions are made possible by massive and courageous public investment, by ambitious choices, as we in our group here in parliament want, and by careful public policies, made up of incentives and trade protections. just look at the chinese solar power exploit to see what's happening. protesting against chinese anti-dumping practices is right but not enough: we must also have a globally competitive industrial policy in europe, and to do that we must create an ecosystem which will foster a genuine industrial revolution towards this transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having is very complicated because it crosses a huge number of objectives in order to find a synthesis, and the work of the political side is immense. we sometimes compare ourselves by taking technical analyses apart, and often these technical analyses document different positions even within the technical discussion. fortunately, there is a place for political synthesis, and this is that place. the work done so far is excellent and is faithful to the balance achieved within the paris agreement. we do not turn the paris agreement into a weapon of mass destruction; we are keeping the best part of these agreements, which is the attempt to ensure a fair balance between environmental and developmental considerations. there are examples, such as renewables and biofuels, where we have sinned by being overzealous: the transition from first-generation to second-generation biofuels must take account of the social reasons for sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. as regards the development of renewables, i am pleased that parliament is moving towards supporting a target of 35% in 2030. i think that this objective, which was first supported by the s&d group, is both ambitious and realistic, and i hope that this result will be confirmed in the trilogue negotiations. i think it is necessary, however, that, since there is no general consensus in this house on the targets, they should be binding at national level and that the text to be voted on wednesday should therefore be worded in such a way as to guarantee in a strict manner the duty of each country to do its utmost to achieve the targets. turning to the energy efficiency directive, i think that the result achieved is very important indeed, the one in the itre committee, and that it must be preserved as much as possible during the vote on wednesday, confirming the ambition of this parliament. in particular, i think it is necessary to speak out for a binding european target of 40% and i hope that the strong commitment to reducing energy poverty will be maintained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union currently imports 53% of all the energy it consumes, at a cost of over eur 1 billion a day. in a context of declining costs for renewable energy technologies, it is time to tap the potential of all actors involved in the energy transition: cities, regions, citizens, cooperatives, investors and businesses. i share the choice of a governance system that can mobilise and coordinate all these actors to stimulate energy efficiency and the spread of renewable energy. it is essential to reduce geopolitical risk by limiting our dependence on imports and encouraging green growth, but some details need to be revised: in particular, in relation to the energy efficiency directive, by setting binding targets for member states and, in relation to the renewable energy directive, by ensuring that it allows the development of an agricultural and industrial supply chain focused on a fully renewable and programmable energy source.
in writing. the report by mr blanco lópez is a very important piece of work, especially in view of the objectives set. parliament finally approved new binding eu-wide targets for a 35% improvement in energy efficiency. this minimum target must be achieved by a joint commitment of all member states through the definition of new binding national measures, including in the transport sector, which accounts for about 75% of final energy consumption in the eu. the deployment of renewable energy in the union is hampered by complex administrative procedures requiring long waiting times. shorter deadlines are therefore necessary for smaller projects, the implementation of which does not require the same in-depth consultation and evaluation as for larger plants. parliament reached a broad consensus in favour of considerably higher targets for 2030. this is the way forward in the near future if we are to fight climate change and meet the ambitious paris commitments. i hope that this important achievement will encourage the member states, where there are 50 million people who are in a situation of energy poverty, and where the use of renewable energy has a fundamental role to play in the development of a new model of energy system.
in writing. invest more in renewables, increase their use to 45% and work towards sustainable geothermal energy. according to the five star movement, to change the energy landscape, we must be ambitious on the clean energy package. that is why we have called for an increase in the target for renewable energy consumption by 2030 to at least 35% and for the reintroduction of binding national targets. with regard to the regulatory vacuum in the field of geothermal energy, we ask the commission to take note of this vulnerability, to examine the matter and to make a suitable and sustainable legislative proposal as a result.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mr mato, his team and the committee on fisheries (pech) for the work done to achieve the report on our proposal for a new technical measures framework. regulating technical measures is about setting out how fishermen can go about their work at sea – what gears to use, what specifications to meet and which standards to strive for. it is therefore a key element of how our common fisheries policy operates on the ground. the current legal framework is quite old and no longer in line with the ambitious objectives of our reform policy in terms of greater sustainability, as mr mato said. i welcome parliament’s position, which embraces key elements of the commission’s proposal, including a firm rejection of reinstating the existing complex array of technical rules and support for the commission’s proposal on measures to protect sensitive species and habitats. we also welcome the pech committee’s approach on how regionalisation would work in the context of technical measures. however, i would like to take this opportunity to discuss several areas of concern. this is the third attempt to reform technical measures legislation, and our proposal was based on the concept of results—based management and accountability by the operators. this was proposed to deliver simplification and flexibility to amend technical regulations at a regional level, while retaining oversight and minimum standards by setting quantitative objectives. i have to express my disappointment in the fact that the clear and measurable eu targets included in the commission’s proposals have been deleted in the draft ep’s report. these targets would introduce accountability and be the basic measuring stick for results—based management. it is a fundamental element of the commission’s proposal, and its deletion risks emptying the proposal of much of its intended purpose. for example, the draft report introduces compromise amendments to regionalise the rules governing the use of different mesh sizes. with no eu quantitative objectives and targets, there is no way to ensure that regional rules will deliver greater sustainability and selectivity in line with the cfp goals. the deletion of eu targets therefore represents a major concern about how regionalisation may work in practice. we no longer have common objectives across union waters. we therefore run an unacceptable risk of having an uneven application of a common policy between different areas, and of having different level playing fields between our fishermen. this is of significant concern, as it undermines the core principle of the cfp. my second concern relates to the eu landing obligation. the reform of the cfp aims at gradually eliminating the wasteful practice of discards through the introduction of the landing obligation. this radical change in fisheries management aims to improve fishing behaviour through improvements in selectivity. amendment 136 essentially introduces a derogation from the landing obligation on the condition that all catches are fully documented. here i would like to point out that the obligation to fully document catches is already a legal requirement. in effect, this amendment would provide an exemption from a key element of the cfp. if this amendment is passed, it will significantly undermine the incentive for fishermen to improve selectivity. i am also aware of the discussions surrounding the issue of electro-pulse fishing, and i would like to remind you that the current technical regulations permit the use of electro-pulse fishing on a limited basis. in our proposal we have proposed to remove the five-percent limit, but to retain the geographical restrictions to the southern north sea. this is based on advice from both the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) in 2012 and ices in 2016. ices, for instance, considers that the conventional way of fishing by beam trawling has a negative impact on ecosystems, while electric pulse stimulation, if properly controlled and applied, may offer a more ecologically benign alternative way of fishing by reducing unwanted by-catch, reducing seabed damage and lowering co2 emissions. there are other elements in the report that are problematic, such as amendments that weaken existing provisions – to protect sensitive habitats in the mediterranean, for example – or amendments that dilute measures to protect vulnerable deep—water sharks and other vulnerable species of marine mammals and reptiles, but the specific issues i raised earlier – that is the removal of union—wide quantitative targets and the blanket derogation from the landing obligation – would seriously undermine the commission’s original proposal and key elements of the cfp. therefore, i have to be very clear that amendments 52—60, 68 and 171 are unacceptable for the commission, as these would remove common targets. equally unacceptable are amendments 130, 131 and 136, as these would undermine the landing obligation. we therefore count on your support to ensure that the cfp delivers on its key objectives through a meaningful revision of the technical measures guiding fishing activities.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in european waters an alarming amount of fish stocks continue to be overexploited and levels of bycatch of non-target species often remain high. it is therefore clear that the current regulatory framework for technical measures has not achieved optimal results. in order to assess the effectiveness of technical measures, specific targets should be established as regards levels of unwanted catches, the level of by-catches of sensitive species and the extent of the sea bed significantly affected by fishing activities, which should be consistent with the objectives of the cfp and, in particular, should be established on a sound scientific basis. regionalization may make it possible to develop technical measures in the framework of multiannual regional plans which are better suited to the specific characteristics of the various types of fisheries. finally, i believe that electrical pulse fishing, as a form of unfair competition for small-scale fishermen and as a non-selective technique which is likely to cause enormous damage to the marine environment, should be banned at least until more economically and socially sustainable conditions are established.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the current crisis. they are currently contained in over 30 different regulations and this complexity and fragmentation is a burden on fishermen, who have been calling for radical simplification for years. i have always said that technical measures are an opportunity to put the principle of regionalization into practice, and we have tried to work on this because, unfortunately, until now regionalization has been more on paper than in the real common fisheries policy. all too often fishermen have perceived european rules as distant and administrativeally burdensome, and that is why, commissioner, we have included this solution on the regionalisation of the targets, which does not mean reducing the objectives but means making them consistent with the characteristics of the various territories. the complexity of the matter, it is true, required long negotiations in the pech committee, and today we have achieved a good result. we need to ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the number of amendments tabled here in the chamber - and there are many - shows how critical this dossier is. we hope they'll help us, that we need them to improve this file. we also understood this from the speech by commissioner vella, who made a specific, numerous list of amendments which weaken this proposal and make it somewhat ineffective, something which does not allow us to fully implement the common fisheries policy. regionalization was the time when we had to apply the true regionalization, but by telling us what regionalization is. regionalization means leaving it to the individual states and regions to choose a path, a trajectory for the application of technical measures, but aiming at common, precise, clear and numerical objectives to be set for the whole union. they have to be numerical because over time we have a need to monitor whether we are getting closer to those goals or not. this regionalisation, as it is now in the dossier, is anarchy and not regionalisation.
in writing. the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2013 introduced the technical measures as we know them today. it is appropriate and consistent with the path that has been taken that they be re-examined, on the basis of the results achieved and with particular attention to the sector as a whole. the commission should perhaps have taken account of the complexities faced by the operators who live off the fisheries industry on a daily basis and acted accordingly on the existing legislation, which has been kept virtually unchanged and thus led to regulatory confusion during the adjustment process. on the other hand, the elimination of the rigidity of the current legislation and the promotion of legislation which is more evolutionary and adapted to the territory is certainly an objective which has been desired for some time. however, this progress must be accompanied by a parallel respect for the balance between the institutions of the union, so that delegated acts do not become a tool to circumvent general rules, or the role of parliament. the multiannual plans therefore remain the most appropriate instrument for promoting the efficient development of the regionalization process we are discussing. in summary, increasing its flexibility by means of an approach tailored to the specificities of each eu sea basin will prove all the more essential as we are able to adapt the union's role to the needs of the sector.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would again like to thank the rapporteur for the general support for the proposal and for the amendments, which clarify and improve the original commission proposal. in fact, only a few amendments were not acceptable from the commission perspective. the sprfmo transposition regulation will, as has already been said by most of the members, allow a faster and more efficient implementation of new conservation measures in union law, thanks to the delegation of certain well-framed powers to the commission. this practical approach will allow the union to deliver on its international obligations vis-à-vis rfmos in a timely manner. there was one comment that i would like to comment on. mr mato mentioned the need to transpose in good time. however, we have to keep in mind that the sprfmo is a very young rfmo, and its first annual meeting was held in 2013. after this meeting, the sprfmo had envisaged a medium-term plan to adopt a comprehensive system of conservation and management measures by 2016. therefore, it was decided to delay the transposition until the new measures were adopted in order to avoid having to repeat a lengthy and complex transposition exercise twice within a limited time. the transposition is a complex and time-consuming process. it requires an article-by-article analysis of every sprfmo conservation and management measure in order to incorporate it into eu law. in most cases, the original provision does not allow for a simple replication. that means we cannot simply copy and paste the text. it is therefore necessary to adapt the provisions to the eu language specificities and actors. my thanks again to the european parliament for its opinion. we look forward to our discussions in the upcoming trilogues and to the quick adoption of this regulation.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the commissioner who is here to listen to us and to discuss with us and with all the colleagues who have contributed to this work and to produce a text which i believe represents a suitable starting point for the european commission itself. an implementation report such as the one we are discussing today is a tool at our disposal to analyse where we have come and, above all, to understand together what the best ways are of increasing and improving the tools that the union puts at the disposal of its citizens. i believe that we have succeeded in this objective and that is why i ask the commission and the commissioner to continue to work together to give a positive follow-up to the work done so far. in coming to the report, we have been able to understand how, although relatively young, macro-regional strategies have become a well-established tool and as such need to be treated, moving beyond the experimental phase, using best practices to improve governance mechanisms and, above all, to establish forms of direct funding for strategies on both the european and national sides. that is why we ask two fundamental things in this report. the first request is addressed to the member states: we are asking for specific commitments, especially in the early stages, at the very moment when the strategies are being drawn up, in terms of financial and human resources. we also ask that, with the support of the commission, incentives or facilities be provided for actions implementing the strategies. secondly, we ask the commission to use the forthcoming reforms of the financial framework and cohesion policy both to redefine and better calibrate the targets and objectives of the macro-regions, and to define in future regulations a new role, areas of intervention, also in the light of the new priorities that the union is giving itself, and forms of implementation work, to identify specific measures and projects and to define sources of certain financing to achieve them. in general, the mechanism whereby strategies must, from time to time, request funding from different programmes must be progressively overcome, in effect strengthening from the outset the direct link between the actions of the strategies themselves and the sources of eu funding. as regards the rule of the three no's (no to new structures, no to new rules and no to new financing), i think it is time to start thinking about it, that is to say, to understand how and in what way it should be abandoned, ten years after the first strategies, so that it can continue to have a meaning that we understand and not just become a hindrance. we therefore ask the commission to provide us with an analysis of the impact of the three no's on the implementation of the strategies and the implementation of the projects in the next report. finally, governance, which is probably the most sensitive point. we agree that the implementation of strategies can no longer be left to national governments alone but must be shared and implemented with the consensus and close cooperation of local, regional and, above all, civil society levels. in fact, too often - and i would like to conclude on this point - strategies sin by lack of ownership and suffer from this lack. the national level is too distant and probably too inattentive. it is therefore essential to bring the ownership of strategies closer to the citizens, giving local authorities and regions an active and decisive role in the planning and implementation phases. i think that is where we have reached a broad consensus in the report and i hope that the debate will confirm this.
i would like to thank mr cozzolino for his very precise and timely report, which contains some very interesting proposals. i think we all need to remember that the european union is very large and, moreover, cooperates with many countries around it, and the logic of macro-regional strategies is that in international competition with large countries it is useful to coordinate european strategies for large coherent areas, which have a common history, economy and culture. however, these strategies often do not work as they should. i agree with the rapporteur that the first thing - and i say this to the commissioner - is to give greater power to the regions and local authorities, because they are the ones who can bring the strategy to life. the second point is a push to really pool the funds. the third is calls for proposals specific to the individual areas, which does not mean ad hoc money but calls for proposals specific to their specificities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, macro-regional strategies represent a significant innovation in european cohesion policies, in that they provide a platform for wider interaction at cross-sectoral, regional and cross-border level between the member states of the union and neighbouring countries. experience has shown, however, that this instrument has its limitations. multi-level governance, with an appropriate role for the regions, must become a key element of the macro-regional strategy. more effective forms of cooperation, both vertical and horizontal, between the various public and private actors, universities and ngos, between international organisations working in this field and the various policies at eu, national, regional and local level, must be put in place. i would point out once again, however, that the mediterranean still lacks a macro-regional strategy, despite the fact that it is a single cultural and environmental basin. it is only a matter of political will that the commission has so far been unable to offer an action plan to address the common challenges of the mediterranean, but it is a matter that must be remedied.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our assessment of the regional strategies is positive. they provide a platform for better interaction at regional and cross-border level between the member states of the european union and neighbouring countries to promote cooperation and improve the integration of the different political partners. there are enormous challenges at stake, i am thinking for example of the adriatic-ionian macro-regional strategy, and i hope that greater attention will be paid to the protection of biodiversity, the mitigation of climate change, waste treatment and integrated coastal zone management. in this respect, i agree with paragraph 30, which encourages the use of green public procurement to stimulate eco-innovation, the bioeconomy, the use of secondary raw materials and thus the circular economy, so as to achieve high levels of protection of health and the environment and to create close links between producers and consumers. on the other hand, we must oppose the european commission's conciliatory policy towards the gas multinationals, which are devastating marine and coastal ecosystems and favouring the business of corrupt lobbies and dictatorial countries, as in the case of tap.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your interventions and your comments. we are all going in the same direction, and we are all willing to show our commitment to strengthening these macro-regional strategies and their roles and capacities. the next multiannual financial framework will be submitted by the commission in may and will provide us with a window of opportunity to introduce macro-regional strategies in the eu policy landscape. macro-regional strategies are, as we said here, without any doubt one of the flagships of territorial cooperation. as you said, it is one of the most tangible expressions of the eu added value. many of you, including mr picula, ms bresso, mr bogovič and mr jakovčić, underlined the political importance of these macro-regional strategies. this is the only framework that we have now in european policies to put eu member states and non-member states on an equal footing with equal rights, sharing experiences and best practices. it is very important for the hopes for enlargement and for the hopes of those countries. but as mr cozzolino underlined in his report, as well as during this discussion, macro-regional strategies provide the relevant framework for improving the results of eu policies and first and foremost, as you said, of cohesion policy. now more than ever, we need to show that we can establish concrete cooperation to help us to be stronger in addressing the serious challenges that we are all facing. the commission will consider very carefully its proposal on how to guarantee better coherence between the macro-regional objectives and those that will be supported through our programmes. we are ready to seek better links with cohesion policy, and we are aiming for the coherence of the whole policy framework. i would like to conclude by assuring you once again that we will remain a fervent supporter of macro-regional strategies. i admit that we have not been successful at all times, and we have to call upon the member states to do their part. the european commission is a facilitator, but when it comes to selecting a project, the only strategy that has introduced this transnational cooperation concept is the baltic one, and it is an example for other macro-regional strategies. to be honest, as i said i am a great supporter of this. sometimes i don’t understand why for so many years the minister of foreign affairs fought for these macro-regional strategies, and then when they are adopted and in place, there are no projects. they don’t come up with common projects. it is therefore really important to bring together the ministry of finance, the ministry of european funds and the ministry of foreign affairs in the same countries and have this cross-border cooperation project. nonetheless, we continue to encourage all the stakeholders to participate. we will continue to disseminate good practices so that each of the four macro-regional strategies learns from the three others. we will also continue to communicate on the benefits of these strategies in order to raise citizens’ awareness. you raised this mediterranean and black sea issue. as i said, these macro-regional strategies are voted on by the council at the request of the member states. if they are adopted by the council, the commission would be ready to be a facilitator. i would like once again to express my gratitude to you, to the european parliament and, in particular, to mr cozzolino and all the people who worked on this very important document, to the regi committee in particular for your support of the macro-regional concept as a valuable tool to improve our collective action. i am also very glad – i see that mr novakov is no longer here – that the bulgarian presidency has designated cohesion policy a priority for the next six months. i therefore rely on you to fight together to preserve this policy, which the most tangible policy that improves the lives of citizens and has visible results in our european union to fulfil the discrepancies and gaps that we still have. thank you once again. i wish you good luck, and it will be a pleasure for me to come to the committee on regional development and maybe to talk about each strategy individually.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have confirmed a broad consensus and a very positive debate. the commissioner's intervention now confirms the positive nature of our discussion. i think we can say that the strategic strengthening of instruments and governance is the first major objective we are setting ourselves. to make the macro-regions increasingly protagonists of the new challenges facing europe: immigration, climate change, sustainable transport and mobility, large-scale comparisons between cities, states and regions on the civic and cultural level. finally, it is important to strengthen the existing framework, this decade, and not to exclude the need to identify new macro-regions and new instruments which will enable us to better meet the challenges facing europe. i think that the work we have done, the debate, is really auspicious, and i hope that there will be a broad consensus on the report tomorrow.
in writing. macro-regional strategies are of vital importance for the development of the territory, as demonstrated by the fact that, for the 2014-2020 programming period, they have been integrated into the european structural and investment funds. in this context, it is important that development is addressed in the right way, for example through proper recognition of the high potential of renewable energy sources and full adherence to the paris agreement objectives on climate and so-called 'blue growth', with particular attention to environmental challenges, caused by the need to tackle marine litter and to promote biodiversity and sustainable tourism. to this end, it is essential to involve stakeholders and local communities more closely in decision-making.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this discussion is very useful, because the one with greece is the biggest rescue operation in history. greece has now entered its seventh year of economic reforms demanded by international creditors but the greek government, under pressure from the creditors, has approved several measures, some of which are contrary to the announced intentions and, after the strikes and protests, we are all now wondering what will happen in greece in 2018, where the economic and social situation is really critical. i thank commissioner crețu for her report, i thank her for informing us and for the data she has given. so let us continue to monitor and follow developments, let us follow progress in the use of the structural funds. only in this way can we increase the confidence of the citizens and the very concept of european cohesion, only in this way can we demonstrate the real utility of what has been done.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the commission reports on the results of the measures adopted by parliament in october 2015 in favour of greece. the combined effect of the three measures has prevented the risk of 2 billion being lost and has provided 2 billion in liquidity, but i think it is equally right to remind everyone of the disastrous situation the troika has caused in the country. cohesion policy is doing what it can, but there are still concerns about the situation of extreme social and economic fragility. since 2010, greece has lost a third of its gdp, half a million people have emigrated, housing problems have increased, health needs have increased, affecting one in four people. the reduction in purchasing power impoverishes households, small and mediumsized enterprises disappear, and the unemployment rate is 21%. the greek people continue to pay for crimes they did not commit, but it is clear that the southern regions are welcoming to the migrants who continue to land, while other countries in north-eastern europe continue to do nothing and oppose any idea of sharing responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 some 120 000 migrants landed in italy. despite a 34% drop compared to last year, thanks mainly to the excellent work of the italian government and minister minniti, it is clear that until europe reforms the dublin treaty it will be difficult to cope with the immigration emergency. the principle of the first port of call, which my country signed up to in 2003 under the berlusconi government, must be revised as soon as possible. this parliament has worked tirelessly to amend that treaty, not without facing obstacles represented by prejudice, national selfishness, ideological positions or simply sterile opposition to any change. the risk now is that, with the bulgarian presidency first and the austrian presidency next, a sacrosanct reform will not see the light of day before the end of 2018. this can 't happen . the principle of solidarity on which the european union is founded demands this, and italy does not deserve it, left alone to defend the dignity of that europe universally recognized as the cradle of civilization.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on the budget of the estonian presidency of the council (2017/2909 ((rsp)). i would remind all members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this point and that no blue-card applications will be accepted. before i give the floor to mr ratas, i would like to thank him and the government of his country not only for their constructive cooperation with parliament but also for having given great prominence, on every occasion, at every event, at every council meeting, to the role and position of parliament. it hasn't always been like this. i believe that the message that has come from the estonian presidency is a very positive one and, on behalf of all my colleagues, i would like to thank mr jüri ratas and his government for always wanting to put parliament at the centre of the political debate. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the estonian presidency for the efforts it has made during the six-month period, and in particular for its commitment to promoting digitisation and the creation of the digital single market. estonia, a digital g5 country, is a true frontrunner in this area. 99% of public administration services are managed online, and the tasks that cannot be performed electronically can be counted on the fingers of one hand: get married, get divorced and buy a house. and i am the most advanced european country in electronic voting, as i saw with my own eyes in tallinn. let us copy them, yes, let us follow their example, because digitisation, accompanied by widespread computer literacy and advanced cybersecurity legislation, allows for enormous savings and greater efficiency, strengthening the rights of european citizens. estonia is a clear example of how the size of a country is not what counts, but the quality of its political vision. congratulations again!
the welcome he has received from this parliament, the applause he has received, is proof of appreciation for the work he has done and of recognition for his commitment to the centrality of the european parliament in the political debate on european union. i thank you again on behalf of the whole house. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.) written declarations (rule 162)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 14 and 15 december 2017 (2017/2908 ((rsp)).
i do not give out blue-card questions when speaking on behalf of the groups because that would be a distortion of the debate.
perhaps the translation of my earlier speech was not clear: i did not say that i would not grant blue card questions during this debate, i merely said that when speakers of the groups' chairmen ask to speak, if there are more members than before the speech of the chairman of that group, of the same group, the position of the group is distorted. because it was like this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so the blue-card questions are reinstated immediately, but when there is a group debate and there is a political opportunity to respond i think it is up to the group chairmen to say what the official position of the group is. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. so there is no attempt to stifle the debate, it was just to have a clear position of the different groups towards the commission and the council, to know what the real budget was that each group had drawn up. so from now on, blue-card questions are possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council meeting in december marked an important milestone on brexit and we expect the commitments in the joint report to be translated quickly and faithfully into the draft treaty and the remaining questions to be resolved. this parliament will continue to be vigilant and vigilant, the bastion for the defence of the rights of citizens. of course, as president tusk said, our hearts are always open. we are also firmly and equally committed to the idea that if we say no to the cherry-picking of financial services, we mean exactly that, that the basket is one and not three, and that to have a passport you have to be in the internal market. on economic and monetary union, i believe that the difference now drawn up by president tusk between what is realistic and what is not between the proposals of the commission and parliament should be reviewed in the light of the evolution of the position in certain countries - i am thinking of the german coalition agreement. it is a wise move to incorporate the esm into european law and to allocate specific additional resources to the union budget for economic stabilisation and convergence. we are ready to play our part on this ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european council has finally responded to the demands of parliament and the leaders' summit in gothenburg by formalising the conclusions on education and culture as an integral part of the european social dimension. we welcome in particular the commitments on student mobility, with the strengthening and extension of the erasmus+ programme, for which the cult committee calls for a tenfold increase in funding in the next multiannual programme, the creation of a first network of at least 20 european universities, which will promote the mutual recognition of higher education diplomas, and the strengthening of multilingualism. it is significant that two initiatives from the cult committee were welcomed: the european student card, to provide services and benefits to the most disadvantaged students, particularly those on the move, and the recognition of the importance of the european year of cultural heritage, which we will be debating tomorrow in plenary, as requested by us. i hope that the education package, which is on the commission's agenda today - and which includes an action plan for digital skills, but also for teaching european values of inclusion in europe - will be approved by the council as soon as possible. however, there needs to be consistency, meaning that there will be significant increases in resources for education and culture in the next multiannual framework and that finally the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) can also provide access for cultural and creative enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in december discussed, among other things, the external and internal dimensions of the european union's migration policy. the reform of the dublin regulation has not yet been agreed. on the relocation of migrants in particular, there remains an unacceptable unwillingness on the part of some member states, namely the visegrad group of poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary, to accept the decision, which has been taken, to make relocation quotas compulsory. i hope that the successes in combating trafficking in human beings and the consequent reduction in irregular flows will make the debate on internal rules more serene and therefore simpler. the issue of permanent structured cooperation in defence was also discussed at the december summit. for many years the main argument against pesco had been the fear that it could lead to a weakening of nato. in fact, it's the exact opposite. a strong european defence is strengthening nato. that is why i think that pesco is good news for the future of the european union.
first vice president of the commission. – mr president, the eu faces daunting challenges, and we have heard many of them mentioned here today, but i don’t think there is reason to be so gloomy about our future. let’s go back a couple of years. we faced an incredible refugee crisis in 2015. we found the right measures to tackle that crisis at the time. now we need to find the measures to be able to sustainably handle a migration over a long period of time. this is a different challenge and will need different measures, but we are up to it. i think that in close cooperation between our three institutions – the council, the parliament and the commission – we can come up with answers and i would just caution against making the issue of relocation the biggest issue there is. it is a small issue compared to the overall challenge of migration. it is the last resort measure in the case of an extreme crisis pertaining to refugees. the bigger challenge we face is migration – people who want to come to europe to seek a better future – and we have to make sure that we develop all the instruments at a european level to tackle that issue: better border controls, better agreements with countries of origin and countries of transit and also a better system of legal migration so that we get to europe the people that we need in europe. i think we are up to this challenge and i think we can face this challenge in the coming year, but we need to do it now. we need to do it within the mandate of this parliament and this commission. likewise, i would say on brexit that it was a good decision in the european council, and now we need to get to work. what we need is more clarity from london. let me just say once again, as president tusk has also said, that it is not the eu that decided to leave the united kingdom, it is the united kingdom that decided to leave the european union. if at some point the united kingdom had second thoughts or were to take another decision, obviously the european union would leave the door open. i want to stress this once again. finally, let me say this – and i think this is important for our future cooperation – the three institutions need each other and the basis of our cooperation is rooted in the treaty and in eu law. for this to work, we need full respect for the rule of law in all our member states. it is not an option you choose. it is not an option you choose on the basis of national sovereignty. it is a fundamental issue for the functioning of the european union, and i say this against the background of increased support for the european union amongst the european population in every member state of the european union. even in those member states who have governments who dispute some of the fundamental values of the european union, the population still increasingly supports the european union as the instrument to provide solutions for the challenges that the world throws at us. let’s be very clear. we are at the beginning of the fourth industrial revolution, a huge challenge. we need to find solutions to the migration challenge, a huge challenge. we need to have an answer to the aggressive and cynical attitude of president putin of russia. that is a huge challenge. but we can face this challenge. there is no need for paralysing pessimism in the european union. we can be more optimistic than before. there are more jobs. economic growth is up. support for europe is up. let’s use this opportunity to solve some of the problems we need to solve urgently.
president of the european council. – mr president, i have nothing to add to what frans timmermans has said. i totally agree with you, with your comments, and there is just one thought, one reflection: i want to thank all those who took the floor in today’s debate, because your positive reactions to my comment on brexit make me even more confident that we will stay united as 27 in every scenario, and this is why i feel so comfortable today – at least in this context. thank you frans for your remarks.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this house and at the level of the european institutions, a commitment against all forms of racism must never fail. it happens in italy that one of the candidates for the lombardy regional elections speaks of "the risk of extinction of the white race" due to the arrival of too many migrants. i believe that the european institutions must condemn this kind of political expression. racism is not an acceptable political opinion and it would be important for the european parliament to make it clear that racism cannot be part of the political battle in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that the words which evoke the term 'race' in politics and the words 'race' and 'colour' which are used are harbingers of terrible memories which belong to the experience of european history and beyond. i believe that they must be rejected, not just by a declaration from parliament but by our daily action. europe and lombardy, civil lombardy, civil italy, civil europe have all the antibodies to be able to say that we are beyond these divisions, that we believe in human rights and we believe in them every day, with every choice we make in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the implementation of the european union's macro-regional strategies shows that europe is still too timid in reporting on the successes and advantages of being a union. the citizens do not have the right idea of what the single market, the free movement of persons, the structural funds and european investment mean. promoting the mobility and interconnection of all european regions is now a key priority in order to give cohesion to the project of the union that we are painstakingly building every day. in addition, uniformity and simplification of the legislative framework are necessary to improve the certainty of procedures and to increase the mobility of the member countries. facilitating access to finance by simplifying procedures is a step in this direction. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it sets out precise criteria for doing so and because i believe that our role as meps is crucial in keeping these objectives at the top of the priorities of national parliaments and our territories.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr mato's report is designed to regulate the whole fisheries sector, both as regards the taking of fishery resources and the definition of the gear to be used. but in fact we are voting in a real mess because of the inconsistencies within the report but above all because of the interference of the lobbies of industrial fishing, not to mention the rather hasty handling of today's vote and the trickery of the eurocrats to get the wrong amendments through. i am referring, of course, to the thorny issue of electric fishing, which was banned by the european union 20 years ago but is still allowed in some fisheries. this is a type of fishing that emits electrical impulses through nets, devastating marine ecosystems, and according to several scientific studies, ignored by the commission and many colleagues, indiscriminately kills all the fish and at the same time causes irreversible damage to the few that survive. even china, which has been criticized here on several occasions, has banned it. the five star movement has said no to those who want to allow such practices to continue, regardless of the mere national interests and the areas concerned. that is why we have tabled amendments and for once parliament has not given in to the blackmail of the lobbies and has stopped electric fishing.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, it has been more than a year since the peace agreement promoted by president santos, nobel peace prize winner, and while some progress has been made, many problems remain. thousands of hectares of land are still used for coca production and hundreds of human rights activists have been killed in areas formerly controlled by the farc. it is a slow demobilization that undermines popular confidence in the agreement and leaves a power vacuum immediately filled by other militias such as the eln, which now tries to occupy the free spaces left by the farc. peace is a hard road. it is certainly not enough to reach an agreement to solve all the problems, but only a genuine commitment between all parties and the help of external actors - including the eu, which has to do more - can produce results in the long term. a few days ago, the ceasefire between the eln and the government broke down, and the situation could collapse at any moment. i therefore call on the parties to show a renewed willingness to negotiate, and on the international community to renew its commitment, so as to guarantee the colombian people what they have been fighting for for over fifty years: peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the signing of the peace agreements, colombia seems to have entered a transitional period of violence, both by criminal organizations and by certain paramilitary groups, now more visible or in the process of formation, which are in fact filling the power vacuum left by the farc. in areas previously controlled by the farc, paramilitary groups have either infiltrated or increased their activity, establishing military and social controls that allow them to appropriate the proceeds of legal and illegal economic activities. these groups pose a huge threat to the effectiveness of the peace process: the fact that some structures did not participate in the demobilization means that the paramilitary phenomenon and its military, economic and political structures, which have historically been invasive in the colombian fabric, are still present and strong. so what is the point of celebrating the dismantling of the farc if a year later we find that other actors have multiplied or strengthened, taking their place and taking advantage of their absence, such as the gulf clan? do we want to consider a solution that eliminates the farc name and allows the paramilitary model to survive? the high level of violence against social leaders and human rights defenders, particularly in rural areas, is also of great concern, with a 47% increase in murders. in colombia, there is an urgent need for a massive and determined intervention by the government to develop a clear and comprehensive strategy for the dismantling of paramilitarism, which attacks the multidimensional character of the phenomenon. that is why i believe it is desirable and necessary for the european union to immediately strengthen the special unit of the colombian prosecutor general's office, which was set up specifically to fight the successor groups to the paramilitaries, and which must produce concrete results in protecting and defending the victims of the conflict, human rights defenders and social leaders. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the agreement. this slowness and disarticulation of the bureaucratic fabric of the de facto agreement risk rendering much of the agreement itself sterile and ineffective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in colombia deserves our full attention. the conflict between the government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia has lasted for 52 years and has caused many civilian casualties. the union welcomed the peace agreement between the two parties, reached in october 2016, as an opportunity to strengthen the institutions in the country and to improve human rights and sustainable development. despite the generous humanitarian aid, many issues remain unresolved, such as social inequalities in marginalized communities and poor economic opportunities that lead many young people to enter the illegal drug and arms trade. it is therefore important that the european institutions continue to listen to the voices of those who denounce the violations and corruption in colombia and commit themselves to pursuing policies of cooperation in the political and economic fields.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the visit of un secretary-general guterres to colombia came to an end. we must unfortunately recognize that peace and reconciliation are still a long way off and that the escalation of violence is a matter of concern. despite the progress made with the agreement signed between the government and the farc and the subsequent disarmament, that agreement is still not implemented in all its parts and in other areas of the country paramilitary groups continue to threaten the population of peaceful communities, as was the case in the attack on the community of san josé de apartadó on 29 december and as is reported by the chilling direct testimonies, among others, of the italian peace corps "operation colomba". unfortunately, there have been many other cases like this, which are not mentioned, such as the situation in samaniego. in 2017 alone, more than 105 human rights defenders were killed. the eu must continue to support the peace process and call on the colombian government to condemn the attacks by the paramilitaries and to launch investigations to establish responsibility for the attack on the peace community and to ensure the full protection of all human rights defenders.
(mike starts speaking) ... century of civil war with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia, known as the farc, the end of the conflict seemed to be near, thanks in part to a historic agreement for which president juan manuel santos won the nobel peace prize. unfortunately, the negotiations to achieve effective pacification of the country have been abruptly interrupted by new attacks by the guerrillas. there is great concern from the international community: the armed conflict, which ended with the 2016 peace agreements, claimed some 220 000 victims from 1958 to 2012, 81% of whom were civilians. unfortunately, colombia still has a long way to go to achieve peace, and the european union must make every effort to avoid the interruption of the peace process and to put an end once and for all to an internal conflict which has cost thousands of lives and displaced 6 million people.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a spontaneous revolt, not a direct one, as some sectors of iranian politics have tried to make us believe, and i would even say a genuine one. a real popular uprising is a whole people, including the middle class, not just the unemployed youth, taking to the streets to declare their desperate desire for freedom. and in the face of this real situation, motivated by economic and social reasons, of course, unemployment and poverty, but also by the rejection of a deeply corrupt iranian ruling class, the corruption of the iranian leadership is little talked about in this house, not enough. you have praised us, mrs mogherini has praised us many times, for her great friendship with the iranian ayatollahs, for the great successes of european diplomacy, but european diplomacy should also concern itself with the rights of the people, not just the interests of the ruling classes, especially when the ruling classes are so corrupt and so cruel towards those who think differently, those who demonstrate democratically in the streets for their rights. and what has been the response of this foreign policy, of this european union? a few tweets, shy, late, very shy, cautious, i dare say, cowardly! i have heard it rightly said in this house that we must distinguish between the problem of nuclear policy and the defence of human rights, that this should be erga omnes, not erga omnes with the ayatollahs removed, erga omnes indeed! but there has been no specific demand here, and there is no specific demand in this house, not only, obviously, from the iranian authorities to throw out these good people who have demonstrated democratically and peacefully, but also to ensure the rights of, for example, the defence. this is where defense lawyers go to jail! europe tears its clothes when these things happen all over the world, but here they are protected. then there 's only one explanation: it's that there are geopolitical interests, and maybe even economic interests, maybe there are interests of big business that you want to do with these gentlemen who are the ayatollahs, who put in jail, persecute, kill, sentence to life imprisonment those who allow themselves to go to the square peacefully to demonstrate for freedom. dear europe, in this situation you have shown that you are cowardly, cowardly, inefficient, inadequate, unworthy of your values of defending the rights and freedoms of peoples. the europe of the people, not the europe of the banks and the interests!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement is and will always be in favour of the demands of the people for greater economic and social equality, their freedom of expression and their sacred right to demonstrate peacefully. and that is why i call on the iranian authorities to react with restraint, not to resort to violence and to listen to the demands of their citizens. having said that, i want to point out some mistakes on the part of the international community, and particularly netanyahu and trump, who, by willingly ignoring the nature of the current unrest, which is more economic than political, are only throwing gasoline on the fire hoping that the protests will be the beginning of the fall of the iranian regime. but in iran, they are protesting double-digit inflation, high unemployment, high prices, not to demand the us military intervention so readily offered by washington, a washington increasingly crushed by the myopia of sanctions. i believe that now more than ever the european union must abandon these warlike, instrumental and dangerous positions, which could foreshadow the risk of a new syria, and must continue to support the nuclear agreement on the one hand and, on the other, to insist with tehran that the benefits of post-agreement investments, including and above all european investments, should benefit the entire population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects of our relationship with iran which i think it is worth stressing. the first is certainly that the european union cannot remain indifferent to the worrying signals of the iranian people's discontent with government policies and to the growing ambiguity shown by tehran in dealing with allegations of abuse and torture by the security forces, just as we cannot turn a blind eye to the violation of human rights and must instead adopt a firm and uncompromising attitude. there is a second aspect, which concerns iran's political role in the region and the future of the nuclear agreement. there is no doubt that the european union sees iran's presence in the middle east region, whether it likes it or not, as an important balancing factor, and the nuclear agreement itself has also been useful in getting tehran back into a possible political correctness in the middle east region. and that is why i believe that the reaction of the us administration after the events is wrong and can produce negative consequences, unlike the correct and balanced position shown by the high representative federica mogherini. but here's the thing. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. political involvement and respect for human rights must go hand in hand and it is our duty to call tehran to account and to press for a new era of economic and social reforms which will put the full safeguarding of human rights at the centre.
i am one of those colleagues who say that we should be brave and support the demonstrating people of iran, to stand up clearly for the students, the young people who unfortunately do not see a perspective for an interesting and satisfying life in this country today. i think it's clear that the reasons for the protests are not political, they are not directed against, say, the islamic republic of iran, as some of the representatives of the islamic republic claim, but they are mainly due to the poor living conditions that iranians have. whether it's the country's economic situation that's not improving, rampant corruption, or iran's expansionist foreign policy that's draining a significant portion of iranian taxes that could otherwise be used to benefit citizens, social systems, healthcare, etc. i am convinced that just because we have a nuclear agreement with iran, we should not turn a blind eye to the situation in iran. iran is a country where democracy simply does not work, where human rights are suppressed, where the death penalty is abused. iran is one of the top three countries in the world that uses -- and i say abuses -- the death penalty, and the eu has always been a leader, a critic of the death penalty. it's a constant reminder of what's to come. moreover, in connection with these demonstrations, more than 1,000 demonstrators were arrested, some figures say between 1,000 and 2,000 demonstrators, and some officials of the regime are already talking about severe punishments. there is even speculation about the possibility of capital punishment, and here i think, commissioner, that we must play a key role in the international arena and in short do everything we can to stop the protesters so that those imprisoned are released, so that the iranian people in general can demonstrate freely, express their political views, but also so that those who have been imprisoned are released and, above all, we must prevent any form of reprisals against those imprisoned or, in the worst case, even execution. i think that would be a very bad bad sign of what mrs mogherini said here a few weeks ago, how our relations with iran are improving, how trade is growing, how cooperation is improving on the basis of the nuclear agreement. i am sceptical about the deal, i am afraid that the iranian regime will break it when it suits them, but i respect that mrs mogherini is more optimistic on this issue. in any case, for the sake of this agreement, we should not close our eyes to the situation in this country and stand with the united states of america, israel and clearly help the demonstrating citizens of the state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear agreement with iran, which was strongly supported by the high representative federica mogherini, is working and is crucial for security and peace in the world. it is an international treaty which must be respected and extended, not dismantled. the president of the united states is threatening to suspend these agreements amidst public astonishment. we have seen an increase in violence in iran since january: the iranian people are showing their anger by taking to the streets to protest in different cities. we are concerned about the government's repression of these demonstrations and condemn it unreservedly. we call on the rouhani government to respect democratic rights as well as the right to peaceful protest enshrined in the iranian constitution. the opening up of the country to modernisation entails respect for the democratic rights of citizens, with particular reference to women's rights. release of detainees and abolition of the death penalty: these are imperatives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the primary aim of the iran nuclear agreement was to bring the west back into peace with a strategic nation in a region which has been hot for several decades. the protests of the past few weeks and the danger of instability in which the country may fall risk calling into question all the results so laboriously achieved by european diplomacy. our main concern must be to safeguard the rights of all citizens involved in the unrest. there is, however, a danger that the protests will provide the regime's hawks with an alibi to abandon the agreement and resume the atomic program, dealing a mortal blow to an ongoing détente process. europe must confirm its strong commitment to the nuclear agreement and commit itself by all means at its disposal to preventing the situation from deteriorating further. keeping the peace in the region must be our priority: the security of europe itself is at stake.
madam president, last august kenya was a democratic achievement. when the supreme court annulled the presidential elections for procedural reasons, the whole country progressed towards democratization, as the judiciary was free from any conditioning. this courageous act gave hope to a continent that was increasingly hungry for democracy. the candidate and incumbent president uhuru kenyatta complied with the judges' decision, which is no small thing considering the dictates elsewhere. except that from that moment on, the electoral process took a very bad turn with defections at the electoral commission, which was already suffering from the suspicious death of its director, on the eve of the elections. unfortunately, the elections in october attracted less publicity. what we regret most is that the kenyan elections again resulted in loss of life and that the country emerged from the polls divided. kenya has already experienced a full-blown civil war during the previous elections, which caused many casualties, so that today kenyans may be wary and turn away from the call for votes. we must demand that the authorities of this country return the electoral process to a peaceful political practice. i therefore strongly denounce the irregularities that have undermined the electoral process in kenya and will continue to do so: the lapse of the rule of law, which is often non-existent in some villages in the country, the perpetual resumption of voter registration on the eve of each election, the in extremis training of election officials. these evils also undermine kenyan democracy and predispose it to become a breeding ground for controversy and open conflict; we must therefore find a lasting remedy for these structural ills. the european union must find a way to support the democratic process of the kenyan people more strongly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, kenya is not only a wonderful place to spend a dream holiday, between safari and resort, but above all a country which has been fighting bravely for years, with all its strength, to heal the wounds of inter-ethnic war in the name of a democratic dream, a dream which seemed to have come true when the supreme court decided to annul the presidential elections because of the serious irregularities found. but it wasn't enough. kenyatta's election, the boycott of the opposition, the inexcusable police violence, the indiscriminate use of force, even against ordinary passersby, during the demonstrations and the hundreds of women brutally raped: the dream of kenya today is turning into the nightmare of its people. it is not enough to simply not submit the final report of the observer mission. without strong political, economic and commercial pressure on nairobi, the soil that kenyans have worked so hard to cultivate will dry up and the seeds of democracy will be choked by the weight of impunity. in the face of the deafness of governments, we have a duty to defend the courage of citizens.
i'll continue what my colleagues have already said, in a nutshell, kenya is a key country in east africa. he's our key business partner. we're sort of evaluating the election year in kenya today, 2017. of course there are many problems that we've talked about here today, protests, people who have sadly died in protests, but on the other hand, it has to be said that the situation in kenya is fortunately not like in some other african countries where there are civil wars going on, where various islamic terrorist organizations are fighting. but there is room for improvement, and i am glad that today the debate has led to the eu and the ep's vote being basically unanimous in the spirit of calling on the various political forces in kenya to work together, calling on the candidate who lost the presidential election or who did not even run in the october election to respect the winner of the election, because what is the alternative solution for kenya today? we need to create a space for political national reconciliation, a space for reforms, a space for the functioning of the state, and constantly questioning the results of the presidential elections will simply lead nowhere, especially at a time when the election results have been recognized by the international community, as my colleague dr polčák said, the united kingdom has recognized these results, etc. the uk's position on kenya is, of course, absolutely crucial. however, i welcome the interesting and important positive aspects of the process, such as the supreme court not being afraid to cancel the first presidential election held in august. the moment he found that the elections were not completely in accordance with the rules, he simply acted, reacted. it is my understanding that the supreme court of kenya operates in principle independently. this is certainly a positive moment, but in the future, it would be good for the international community and the eu to call on kenyan politicians to address these problems in the future by amending the law, by electoral reform, precisely because of the inaccuracies that have been in the entire electoral process. so it's true what my colleagues said. let us please persuade the kenyan president to do everything possible to reconcile the political elites in kenya, to act in the spirit of what is called constructive dialogue, and to develop this country further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the invalidation of the elections in august, the new elections immediately afterwards, the appeals and annulments, the police violence, the pride and tenacity of the people who are demanding democracy, transparency and rights: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the kenyan people, the government itself and the institutions have the right and the duty to consolidate democracy. the european commission must guarantee greater access to resources and we must all, for example, do even more to ensure that farmers, especially young people, have greater access to land and to cultivation and that everyone, and everyone, is guaranteed the right to water. the european union should strengthen its commitment to africa, in this case to kenya, to its people. it is on the african continent that the big bets are being made and we must be the guarantors of all this.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we produce and sell software and hardware that can spy on anyone, anywhere, that can monitor phones, read emails, even track our movements through smartphones. but what's outrageous is that we sell them to dictatorial regimes that use them to track down their opponents, arrest them and kill them. sometimes these are genuine illegal exports, but more often unscrupulous companies take advantage of the loopholes in this system, which need to be closed. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. some of these are viable alternative roads: i am referring to the various italian companies, reported by al jazeera for example, which use countries such as turkey to circumvent controls and export to illegally occupied territories. europe must not only defend the many honest companies which today obviously demand greater flexibility, but must also show that innovation can be exported, but also peace and justice. this regulation is responsible for that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about two concrete examples of how trade, through good regulation, can promote our values and set standards at a global level, sustainable development, which we will talk about later, and regulation of trade in goods that could be used by dictatorial regimes to restrict the freedom of citizens. as progressives we have fought since the beginning of the legislature to ensure that the european union has this fundamental instrument, without leaving dangerous regulatory gaps. we have always insisted that our partners must accept the conditions of trade with europe, which is still the largest and richest market in the world. the adoption of this new regulation will make us more consistent. we can no longer allow dictators and repressive regimes to use our technology to flout human rights and universal values. once again the european union will be at the forefront of the battle for respect for human rights. this reform is a cutting-edge instrument, the most advanced globally. we are proud to have made this possible, thanks to, amongst others, the introduction of a comprehensive clause that will allow for the coverage of technologies not yet available, the increased transparency that the reform will require from member states, the establishment of a european - the most comprehensive global - list of products at risk and clear provisions on circumvention. europe is thus reaffirming that its trading model is open but anchored to firm and unshakable principles. our work doesn't stop today. on the contrary, it will intensify: we must ensure that it is implemented in such a way that it is as effective as possible and that no one tries to evade it. we cannot simply state our values in a passive way, but we must make sure that our actions are concrete and strong. the message we are sending today is more positive than ever and we europeans can only be proud of it. today's a win for all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen an increasing fragility of the international order. the values that unite the member states of the european union - democracy, freedom and the rule of law - are at risk in many of the countries with which we are interconnected, economically and politically, and technological change is affecting not only the way of life of citizens but also the threats to our society. in this context, the european union, as the world's most powerful trading bloc, cannot fail to play a leading role at global level in defence of our values. this parliament has repeatedly called for measures to be taken to prohibit the export of surveillance technology to countries with authoritarian regimes and which violate human rights. the proposal under discussion on dual-use goods has the merit of providing the european union not only with an additional instrument for protecting human rights at global level but also with an effective mechanism for export controls to defend free and fair trade.
member of the commission. – mr president, everybody here in this room agrees that it is high time that we update the current legislation when it comes to export control of products that could have dual uses. this is what our citizens expect from us, namely that we take human rights very seriously in this kind of trade. companies are also expecting guidelines from us that are user-friendly, up—to—date and modern. this is what we are trying to do here. we are trying to things easier – and i think mr fjellner brought this up – for the vast majority of companies who want to work with us and to do a good job here in reducing costs and enhance competitiveness, while, at the same time, responding to legislation and citizens’ concerns. we are introducing a new eu general export authorisation, simplifying controls on intra-eu transfer on sensitive products and technologies, we are developing an electronic licensing system in member states and we are facilitating technology transfers. all this will reduce the burden of controls for the companies and also make procedures more user-friendly. it is indeed high time that we adapt to changing technologies and emerging security threats, and this is what we are trying to do with this. i am happy to see that there is such a great consensus in this house – maybe the christmas spirit is still looming – but i think it is mostly thanks to the rapporteur and his work that we have such strong support for this report. it will definitely facilitate discussions with the next institution, and hopefully we will have flexible legislation that is able to adjust to technologies and security. it will have a robust human security dimension, more harmonised transparency arrangements and also a system that builds on this important partnership with industry and civil society. i think we obviously still have some issues to solve in the future legislative work here, but this is definitely a very important step forward. thank you again to the committee on international trade for the work you have done. i am looking forward to working with you in the coming months.
member of the commission. – mr president, as the previous debate illustrated – and it’s basically the same audience and contributors here – i think we are all very committed to having a strong value-based trade policy, and that is why we are committed, in the commission, to having and promoting labour policies, labour rights and environmental standards in all our policies, including trade policy. we have trade and sustainable development chapters in all our trade and investment agreements, and they are a key tool in promoting that – not the only tool, but a very important one that allows us to work with our partners and ensure a level playing field for our workers and enterprises. that is why, as mr lange said, we submitted it to the european parliament, the council and others. we wanted to talk about this and how we could increase the effective implementation of these chapters to make sure that they are even stronger. we proposed this paper outlining progress up until today, as well as putting forward two real-life examples of existing approaches and asking questions. this is not a proposal setting out only these two options; these are the two of which we are aware, but there could be others as well. that is why we wanted to have this debate, and we don’t want to limit the discussion in any way, so we welcome feedback and proposals. the fundamental question that needs to be posed is: what is working, what is not working, and what tools do we need to better implement the chapters? trade policy is only one important factor, but it is not the only tool to improve the situation in other countries. there are synergies with development policies, for instance, and that has been acknowledged in the recently updated eu aid for trade strategy. we are still receiving inputs on this. countries, organisations, member states and parliaments have told us that they are still working on their proposals, but thus far there is broad support for a more affected and more assertive implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapters, and there are specific areas for improvement which have been proposed. there is a need for increased transparency; increased communication on developments in trade and sustainable development-related proceedings; in dispute settlement; the strengthening of civil society organisations when it comes to monitoring; the effective implementation of the existing provisions; and more assertive enforcement and stepping up of pre-implementation efforts in order to increase awareness in our partner countries and tackle non-compliance issues. these are a few suggestions that are important and that have been given to us. there has been no suggestion that the broad scope of the tsd chapters will be abandoned. the discussion has not been concluded yet, but there is nothing that indicates a consensus emerging on a policy shift towards introducing trade sanctions. the key issue here is that sanctions are supposed to counterbalance specific trade costs, demonstrating that the trade costs of a country not respecting certain basic social and environmental standards has concrete effects on trade. with regard to civil society, it is indeed a very important ally in ensuring that labour and environmental standards are promoted. civil society is also an important partner that is able to alert us when there are things are not going well in a country. therefore, we are considering increasing the organisational capacity of civil society structures, improving their interaction with government bodies under the trade agreements, and stepping up the pre-implementation efforts to increase awareness in our partner countries and tackle non-compliance. this includes the handling of comments and information from civil society. all stakeholders have the possibility to submit views and to advise the parties through the civil society mechanism, but this process could be clearer.as regards the potential impact assessment or public consultation, the final results will have to determine that. it is a little early to say whether such a process would be warranted. in any event there will be several opportunities, in addition to the current one, for the regular assessment of the effectiveness of the approach chosen through the annual implementation reports and exports to impact assessment. so, discussions are still ongoing. we welcome the input that has arrived so far and those who have indicated that they would be coming. we are looking forward to continue discussing these issues with members of the european parliament.
the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the growing protectionism we are witnessing at global level is paradoxically creating a great opportunity for the european union. our third way of doing business can finally be the global gold standard. all the major players in international trade are looking to us, from japan to the mercosur countries, to australia and new zealand: all our partners are asking us to build even stronger relationships. in this respect, we welcomed the commission's initiative to launch a process of reviewing the instruments best suited to achieving this result. we have already succeeded, in some cases in an innovative way, in incorporating in our internal regulations the binding observance of more ambitious environmental and social standards. it is important at this point to continue along this path and to identify a model which can be applied in all our present and future negotiations. we therefore call on the commission to take further steps to consider in an innovative way approaches which introduce more binding mechanisms, including through a gradual sanctioning, not necessarily a copernican revolution, or through specific incentives which are coupled with greater efficiency in the resources devoted to monitoring. i am glad that you mentioned monitoring in your speech, commissioner, because monitoring is still a problem, because it is often difficult to identify the best people to lead the process in those countries where there is no civil society with sufficient instruments to do so. the commission will also be able to provide for specific review pathways for existing agreements on the basis of an increasing capacity to carry out comprehensive and detailed impact assessments. we are not asking for cooperation and dialogue with our partners to be abandoned, but rather for europe not to lose its chance to promote human, social and environmental rights with ever greater force and on an ever wider scale.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainable development chapter in trade agreements remains the only tool we have to raise and address some concerns. the commission has started a reform process which will certainly help to ensure that employment standards are better met, but i think that a similar commitment to environmental issues is lacking. the current proposals on the table seem rather vague, for example, there is no clear system of dispute settlement based on actual sanctions. without a mandatory and independent system where stakeholders, trade unions, civil society, consumers and human rights defenders are able to submit complaints, any attempt to tie sustainable development to trade will remain a futile endeavour. the united states has already used a system of sanctions in trade agreements in the past, albeit with problems. i think we must start from an idea like that, by creating a new and satisfactory instrument which, however, provides for sanctions, such as the application of economic duties where such shortcomings are recorded. what we need today is not a report full of good intentions, as is typical of modern election campaigns, but more courage and more vision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development in trade policy means first and foremost the protection of the environment and the defence of human and social rights. in the vocabulary of international trade, however, these are referred to as 'non-tariff barriers', an expression which too often contains a clear political indication, which translates into the primacy of the right to profit over civil, social and human rights. women's rights are human rights and gender should be a transversal aspect of any political issue, as the un sustainable development goals remind us, but we know that it is feminist politics that first brought to the fore the issue of subjects that male history has carefully silenced for a very long time. with malin björk and as a member of the inte and femm committees, i am rapporteur for a joint report on gender equality in eu trade agreements. i would remind you that we should be talking about trade agreements starting from the fight against gender discrimination, from the defence of labour rights and the environment and not in spite of them.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the presentation of the work programme of the bulgarian presidency of the council (2017/2910(rsp)). i take this opportunity to welcome to the european parliament the prime minister of bulgaria, mr boyko borissov, and to thank him. there will certainly be no lack of cooperation from this parliament with the bulgarian presidency. of course we are all interested in hearing his words.
i am particularly grateful to you for having reiterated in your speech the central role of the european parliament in working for the benefit of the citizens, in working for the betterment of our union. this is an important step and an important recognition, which will allow us to work well together.
now let's get this discussion started. normally i'm flexible on time, but i'm asking you to respect that today because it's a very busy day. after this very important debate we have another very important debate with the irish prime minister, then there will be voting, then there will be working breakfasts, so neither i nor the vice-presidents who will replace me can be flexible about the timing. i would also ask the group chairmen, to whom i often give a few more seconds, to be a little more rigorous today.
on behalf of the efdd group. i have greatly appreciated the choice of priorities of the bulgarian presidency. in recent years europe has been chronically sick with brain drain and youth unemployment. despite the much-hyped recovery, the data continues to be scary: the average of the three taillights greece, spain and italy is around 36%. young people, we young people, continue to feel the effects of the economic crisis, and this undermines not only the basis of growth and europe's capacity to innovate and innovate, but the very basis of our project. we need to work together to find concrete and effective solutions and implement as soon as possible an expansionary, countercyclical and keynesian policy that gives priority to work and innovation. it was late yesterday. the bulgarian presidency was also known as the 'balkan presidency'. i too am convinced of the absolute need to relaunch the accession process of the western balkans, whose stability and prosperity are of fundamental importance to us all. the main example of the process of integration is certainly montenegro today, which is getting closer and closer to joining our great european family, and it will be our task to assist all the countries of the region by applying the principle of 'more for more': the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the proposed reforms. finally, i welcome the choice to continue with the outgoing estonian presidency, which is based on the digital revolution, which, with lower costs and greater efficiency, is a pillar of the europe we dream of, a europe less outdated and bureaucratic, a digital, democratic and advanced europe.
president of the commission. the commission is not i am almost overjoyed to be allowed to speak again and again, even though i do not know what i can add to what i said to you before the debate. i therefore wish to express once again my hope that the bulgarian presidency will be a complete success. it will be, and i would also like to thank all the members of this house - who are a little more numerous this morning than yesterday - for having such an almost interactive debate. - thank you.
the president of the council in office. thank you, mr president, thank you, mr juncker, for the good assessments and of course thank you to the heads of all the parliamentary groups and to the other members who spoke. i especially want to answer the greens, because i'm a green person myself. conservation of bulgarian nature is, i think, hugely protected by our government. i have great respect for our conservation organizations and i met with them only ten days ago. i've been putting infrastructure projects on hold for years so that new stork cubs can hatch for a stork's nest. i've had ministers personally carry mud bricks so that not a single blade is left crushed by a roller. all our european infrastructure projects have tunnels for bears, for wolves, for turtles. we've changed the course, and i don't think they have any claims on me. what they told you, i want to guarantee you, and you to tell them, it's about the second lift, the only lift in the resort in the ten of europe, bansko. now there's only one elevator, and tourists have been queuing for hours. i can sign your name and guarantee you that this is only a second elevator. why do you need it? not just for the tourists. now these thousands of tourists are making their way up the mountain in their cars and coming down. to keep this road open to cars, we salt it constantly, as they do in strasbourg, i suppose. dozens of trees around him are dying. i guarantee you that not only will illegal logging not be allowed, but - i'm just opening a bracket here - in recent years bulgaria has been the first in europe in new forests and the only one, perhaps, that has expanded its forests of all european countries. what illegal logging are we talking about here? we're fighting such a battle with this, and what greater guarantee is that when there's a second elevator, and this tourism, what investor will let him cut down his pine trees? so you have my guarantee that except for a second elevator, one more tile will not put there. to answer those colleagues who raised the question of corruption. corruption is everywhere, we're fighting a huge battle. and i'll put her back with the greens. i've been elected 10 or 11 times, along with my party as winners in elections in bulgaria. we started from the opposition and we started from zero. there was an unprecedented garbage crisis in sofia when i became mayor. there was no factory, no processing, there was nothing. he was throwing himself into the derets in sukhodol. we did, and now sofia is the best organized, i think, after zurich, thanks to your european solidarity, with complete composting, recycling, a domestic waste plant, a landfill - everything, as it says in european books. at the same time, if there is this kind of corruption that you're talking about, will there be this kind of economic growth, more investment and this growth? how are people gonna choose us in the first place? and i, as a policeman, was elected mayor of sofia because of what i did in this sphere. and i guarantee you that the way we're dealing with sofia's garbage now, in 2-3 years we'll be able to handle it. and we're going to do well. and with the new legislation, and with the will, and with your help and effort. please, these friends of ours who are protesting, they were my coalition partners. they split up in the election into three parties, have three leaders, and couldn't get into parliament until six months ago. they're our most natural partner. i can't blame them for splitting into three parties to have three leaders. it's not my fault that i won the election, and that's under a government of a socialist-elected president. they held the elections and we won. i'm sorry, it's not my fault. at the same time, i want to respond to the istanbul convention, which was only last wednesday when the bulgarian government, in my person, accepted it. but it was the bulgarian socialists who decided not to support her in parliament at a plenary session on sunday. i will do my best to get it through parliament and to support it, because violence against women and children is monstrous not only in bulgaria, but in all of europe. so you can count on it, and i think the greens would support me here as well... i hope. i'd like to answer all of them. i wanted to focus on the main criticism. to my colleague from the dps, i want to say that we work with the united patriots in this way, we have clearly understood that ethnic tolerance, the ethnic model and precisely what bulgaria has achieved for decades, thanks to you, we will guard it like the apple of our eye, because bulgaria is an example to imitate the entire balkans, with its ethnic tolerance. and with michel barnier on brexit, i'm also committed to working. thank you for everything. i'm willing to sign for you that it's just a second elevator, nothing else.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. bulgaria's presidency comes at an important time for the european union, when the need to deliver on the three main concerns of citizens is most urgent: the european union is also committed to the development of the european social model. in mid-december the government in sofia presented its programme for the presidency of the council of the european union. of the four priorities identified, none address human rights, nor are there any references to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the 'management of immigration' is often mentioned, with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of 'return policies' and 'management of border controls', but no mention is made of the reform of the dublin regulation, nor of the redistribution of migrants. i am genuinely concerned that parliament's work on this subject may be brought to a sudden halt. on security and employment, the proposals of the new presidency seem convincing to me - economic growth and social cohesion must be at the heart of the political agenda, as well as the fight against terrorism - but i think it is worth reminding all of us and the new presidency that the very tenure of the european union is at stake on the issue of immigration.
the agenda includes a discussion on the future of europe with leo varadkar, taoiseach (prime minister) of ireland (2017/3023(rsp)). as you know, this is the first debate on the future of europe that the european parliament has decided to organise, inviting the prime ministers and the most important players in europe to a concrete debate, not with formal speeches but with the opportunity to interact to learn the thoughts and proposals of european leaders. i would like to thank the taoiseach, the prime minister of ireland, for responding to our invitation with great haste. he'll be the first to come up with this new formula. it will be of great interest to us to hear him, also because ireland is a leading country in the new phase we are entering, so his presence in the european parliament and in the hemicycle is of great importance. i thank him for being the first to respond with great readiness and urgency to the opportunity to meet the european parliament. so it is with great pleasure that i give him the floor so that he can address you and start this constructive discussion on the future of europe.
taoiseach, thank you very much for your speech, a large majority of the european parliament is happy. it is now very important for us to hear the first reaction from the president of the commission, mr jean-claude juncker.
i do not think it was a mistake for parliament to decide not to take part in a working party organized by the european commission where three members of parliament were to be part of a study together with other officials. we share the view and the need to legislate better, to reduce the number of rules, but i must remind you that under the treaty parliament is the first institution of the european union and cannot be treated like any other consultant who participates with three members in a working group. it is not a question of dignity, it is a question of respect for the treaties. no hard feelings towards the commission, far from it: we want to work with the commission, but the conference of presidents - no group excluded, all agreed - has unanimously decided not to participate. this does not mean that we do not intend to work with the commission to legislate better and to work in the interests of our fellow citizens. that is part of the debate. let us now begin with the speeches by the leaders of the political groups: please respect the time allocated to you. after the leaders' speeches there will be a response from the taoiseach, then we start with the "catch-the-eye" and there will be another response from the taoiseach. since we have to start voting at 12.30 p.m., please respect the time allotted to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, mr prime minister, to thank you for your speech and also to challenge what mr rengel says: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you for your speech. we're here to talk about it, we're going to have a debate amongst ourselves about it. i thank you for your speech and i wanted to raise the problem, which some others have already raised, of a greater democratic development of the european system. i believe that an equivalence between a parliament and a council, which becomes a real european senate, with equal powers, with majority voting, would make it possible to have a true, clear and transparent european democracy. and of course the future development of europe must also guarantee this to the european citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that the institutional aspects are as important as the economic aspects which others have mentioned.
taoiseach, thank you very much for your participation, thank you for your cooperation with the european parliament. we will work together for a better europe. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, when we look at the energy choices made by the european union, we see a picture in the dark, which is far from encouraging. just think of what is happening in italy, in my region, with tap and what is about to happen with the design of poseidon: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. but in this case, despite the shielding of the majority of those sitting in this parliament from the total elimination of fossil fuel subsidies, which we have been calling for, the proposal on the governance of the energy union seems to be making progress by making the planning and updating of national climate and energy plans more participatory and transparent, and by exploiting the potential of cities, regions, citizens and businesses. moreover, the inclusion of energy efficiency targets, the role of decarbonisation and the increased use of renewables are certainly moving in the right direction. that is why we voted in favour.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. i do not mean to defend the russian regime, but i am skeptical of the tendency to attribute to it interference in elections in the us and europe. there's no evidence of such interference, only denials from wisconsin, california, the french agency for cyber security and the digital society institute in berlin. fake news doesn't just start on the internet. in the iraq war, it was the mainstream press that spread devastating lies about weapons of mass destruction. we cannot hide that those who most vehemently denounce fake news today and want to censor the internet are themselves spreading fake news that restart a dangerous cold war with russia.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the natural interlocutor of this debate, to whom we could address our doubts, all the doubts that have been expressed, is the duma, and it is truly disconcerting that this parliament does not engage in dialogue with the natural interlocutor of the largest country which, by the way, is part of europe, not of the european union but clearly of europe, much more than turkey. fake news: i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it has been said very recently that there would be very strong russian influence on the italian electorate. the italian security services immediately denied it, there is nothing of this, so we must be very careful. it is said that this had an influence on the brexit vote, on the democratic explosion of the will of the catalan people. but then you have to explain to me: are you so far from hearing the people that you think that when they vote, they vote because there is an influence of moscow? no, there is the voice of the people, expressed through voting, until proven otherwise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the work done by the union in recent months to combat external interference is intensifying. the creation of the fake news task force by commissioner mariya gabriel is certainly a positive development, alongside the work already initiated by high representative federica mogherini in the external action service with east stratcom to improve european communication in the eastern neighbourhood countries and to identify disinformation operations. at the same time, however, we must be careful not to focus on russia alone, with which a political dialogue must be maintained precisely so as not to unwittingly aid putin's authoritarian grip and his nationalist narrative. the phenomenon of counterinformation to destabilise europe is a serious and well-established problem, but it is a global problem, not confined to one country, and it raises the question of the need for the european union to make a qualitative leap towards a true federation, which can more effectively counter these phenomena.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs tomc, most sincerely for her work on this dossier. i believe that, thanks also to the contribution of the other rapporteurs from the groups, we are finally faced with an ambitious text which presents a precise picture of the implementation of this fundamental european programme to combat youth unemployment and inactivity, not only because it analyses in detail the data available and the impact of the resources put into place to achieve the objectives of the youth guarantee, but also because it carefully assesses the elements which require more critical consideration, proposing specific recommendations on how to deal with them. i am firmly convinced that we need to reform the youth guarantee and its financial instrument, the youth employment initiative, in order to make use of the experience gained in recent years. the objective of this reform must be concentrated on three main areas: the commission's proposal is to strengthen the scope of the programme by showing that it is better able to involve those who need it most, namely the neets, those young people who are not in employment, who are not in education and who are on the margins of the labour market. secondly, bureaucratic mechanisms must be simplified, allowing for greater involvement of enterprises and youth and trade union organizations, and the efficiency of public employment services must be improved. finally, work needs to be done on the quality of the supply, starting with the development of a european definition of quality supply. i have fought, even against the wishes of some colleagues, for the definition to contain clear and very clear principles, including the obligation to pay for traineeships, full access to social services for trainees and full respect for labour rights and standards. the final objective of measures financed by the youth employment initiative must be long-term integration into the labour market and cannot be limited to funding short-term traineeships, which, for example, in my country, have been prevalent in some regions. it is therefore necessary today to have instruments to prevent any possible abuse, such as late payment or violation of contractual conditions and the rights of participants, which harms not only the training and professional process of the many young beneficiaries but also the reputation of the european union in its action to combat youth unemployment. for this reason i have proposed the establishment of an eu hotline against the violation of the rights of young people, which would allow them to report directly to the commission any negative experience they have had in the course of their participation in the programme, and would allow for the investigation of any abusive practices in the use of eu-funded policies. a key element in the discussion is the funding to be allocated after 2020. i strongly believe that the youth employment initiative should be transformed from an extraordinary anti-crisis instrument into a permanent mechanism to finance the youth guarantee in the years to come. discussions on the new multiannual financial framework will begin shortly: the european parliament will have to fight to ensure that this programme remains a top priority for union action. the future of young people is the future of europe, and we must not forget that.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, deciding what to do with the youth employment initiative means choosing between being a country that can cope with the problems it has or continuing to live at the mercy of a national and local policy that is a victim of itself, a victim of mismanagement imprisoned by clientelist logic, small interests to be defended and nurtured as best it can. youth guarantee is not the solution to youth unemployment, it is not the panacea to stem the brain drain from our country to places that recognize and appreciate its potential, but it can be a support for a new policy of valorizing our wealth, because young people are the wealth of our country. our work on this document was intentional, because we need to monitor the use of resources constantly and diligently, and we need to do a thorough job in the territories to understand the needs of the productive fabric, so that we can come up with concrete and effective solutions. the training must be specific to the occupational category, the working conditions must be respected and the abuse of this instrument for the benefit of underemployment must be combated by all means. we need vision, transparency and consistency, we need strategy and we need to be responsive to the needs of the citizens in order to make the best use of every little resource. every single euro wasted in pursuing clientelist logic will prove that we are not up to the role we have as co-legislators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, youth unemployment remains the great challenge in the european union, particularly in some countries, including certainly spain, greece and italy. mechanisms should be put in place to ensure greater transparency on how funds for unemployed young people are spent and member states should be obliged to provide the monitoring data they have. we know too little about the results and effects of the youth employment initiative and what little we know is not reassuring. the available data reveal some unenthusiastic results on the quality of the labour supply. the initiative should focus more on long-term youth unemployment, helping to identify young people who are not in employment, education or training, the so-called 'neets', and then to develop targeted and appropriate strategies to solve this real social drama. the youth issue needs to be tackled in a holistic way, integrating local, regional and national instruments, to do one simple but fundamental thing: training young people and teaching them to work well. no need for palliatives.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the latest figures show that the situation of youth employment is slowly improving, but that is precisely why we must continue to support the member states through the youth employment programmes which are needed to give hope to the many young people still looking for work. to do this, as the rapporteur has stressed, we need to measure the results achieved so far in a concrete and precise way, which is not easy. it is therefore true that monitoring systems need to be improved to obtain more accurate data, especially on the so-called 'neet' band. what is even more necessary, however, is to take a further step forward to develop stronger action on active policies for the integration of young people into the world of work, rather than continuing to favour anti-crisis or temporary employment instruments. and there is a need for adequate financial allocation in the post-2020 programmes to ensure that young people are recognised as having stable working conditions that correspond to their qualifications, skills and professional abilities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission for presenting this strategy which is very important for europe, both from the environmental and economic point of view. i 'll start with a fact: today, 25 million tonnes of plastic waste are produced in europe and less than 30% is recycled. this is impressive when you consider that much of this waste is the number one cause of pollution in the seas: there are entire islands of plastic in the middle of the ocean today. it is good to make it clear that this is not a strategy against plastic but an opportunity that we must be able to seize. aiming to make all plastic packaging recyclable and reusable by 2030 is not only a way to protect the environment but it is also a precise choice, giving new impetus to the recycling industry, to innovation for more sustainable materials, to boost the competitiveness of our companies and to support employment. challenges requiring investment in research and development, which will be stimulated by the additional eur 100 million. the agreement on the circular economy package we reached in december will already give concrete start to many of the actions in the strategy, from strengthening separate collection obligations to waste prevention measures, such as the introduction of extended producer responsibility schemes for packaging. when we talk about plastics, we are talking about products and materials that are commonly used by european citizens: i've got bottles, cosmetics, and envelopes. this is the right time: there is a very attentive public to sustainability issues and concerned about the health impact of pollution. citizens have already shown that when it comes to taking action to protect the environment, they are the first to adopt virtuous behaviour. it is our duty to move from intentions to concrete measures, as we are doing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's strategy on plastics is an important first step in combating one of the tragedies of our civilisation, namely plastic, the third most widespread material on earth after steel and concrete. since the 1950s, when the use of plastics became widespread, 8.3 billion tonnes of plastic have been produced and some 6.3 billion tonnes have been dumped in nature. the initiatives which the commission intends to take are all acceptable. but much more could be done, and perhaps the time frame of the strategy could be shortened, given that 2030 is not so close. but what i am particularly keen to note is the political aspect of the initiative: the european union is finally certifying at the highest level of institutional authority that the plastic problem exists and must be tackled seriously. as has already happened in the past with other elements of environmental policy, this position of the european union will force other areas of the world to confront the problem in the same direction, confirming that the european union is able to exercise its global leadership in environmental matters.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the recasting of the brussels iia regulation has its lights and shadows. the rules aimed at facilitating the recognition of judgments and minimising the chances of international child abduction are welcome. in particular, the introduction of the principle that the protection of the best interests of the child and related fundamental rights must take precedence over all other rights is welcomed. the demand for specific training for judicial staff in the member states, especially in the field of family law, is also welcome. however, there are still serious concerns, in particular the encouragement of the use of mediation in matters of custody, a solution which does not provide sufficient guarantees of impartiality. in addition, the concept of habitual residence has not been adequately clarified and sufficient guarantees have not been given to avoid the risk that the courts of some member states will take decisions in favour of their own nationals without taking account of the judgments of their colleagues in other countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a multitude of european citizens continue to denounce, through the instrument of petitions, very serious violations of those fundamental rights which this report is intended to protect more effectively in the area of the best interests of the child and parental responsibility. the complaints focused on procedures, mechanisms and practices implemented by the jugendamt in germany, with many cases of discrimination against non-german parents. the german authorities are also still not sufficiently prepared to offer full and genuine cooperation. as long as this matter, which has been dragging on for too long, is not fully investigated, the faster circulation of judicial decisions which this measure is intended to achieve will simply lead to an aggravation of intolerable injustices which should, on the contrary, be combated by beginning to intensify the controls and specific checks in the member states on the conduct of the competent authorities in matters of parental responsibility and the effective guarantee of the welfare of the minors involved.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation under discussion is an appropriate step towards the necessary updating of the legal framework to overcome the difficulties that too often arise in the enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters in general in the various european countries, and in cases of international child abduction, which in fact end up being disputed by parents for too long as a result of international divorces. i particularly appreciate the introduction in the report of the hearing of the child in these procedures, which is essential for the child to be able to express his views in proceedings concerning him, as provided for in the international covenants, so as to provide the competent authority with all the elements for the assessment of his best interests, and only his best interests. it is important that the child's hearing is conducted according to common standards, with arrangements to ensure that due care is taken to avoid interference, disturbance, conditioning and trauma to the child. the introduction of a maximum period for the completion of child return procedures is also particularly welcome. this, together with the concentration of responsibility for child abduction with specialised authorities, will speed up return procedures and avoid subjecting the child to long periods of legal uncertainty. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues in the juri committee for the excellent work they have done.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has finally decided to ratify the marrakesh treaty, which is a fundamental legal act for the implementation of the rights of blind and visually impaired people. the treaty was signed in 2014 but never ratified due to the council's reticence, with great prejudice to all the rights of people with visual impairments. the ratification by the european union is therefore a very important moment and finally, after years of pressure and battles with the council, we can say that we have succeeded. blind and visually impaired people will finally have their rights recognized. we can only congratulate ourselves. it is an act which makes it possible to put the principle of equality into practice and which shows that the european union can move in the right direction when it wants to. it is decisions like these that give meaning to the european project and enable the european citizens to understand the added value of this union, which too often deals only with banking and finance and too little with rights, especially the rights of the weakest. i therefore call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of the report tomorrow. tomorrow's vote will truly be remembered as a historic moment in the recognition of fundamental rights and the importance of the dissemination and accessibility of culture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, only 5% of the world's library and cultural heritage has been made available in accessible formats, 1% only in developing countries. this is a very serious violation of the right to know for hundreds of millions of people in the world, and tens of millions in europe, and a condemnation to not being able to reach an adequate level of education, with a strong impact on employment levels and therefore also on poverty. the marrakesh treaty, which through specific copyright derogations expands the usability of textual products for the benefit of blind, visually impaired and other print-disabled persons, will enable many more works, such as books, journals and newspapers or other kinds of publications and notations, including musical scores and illustrations thereof, to be produced and exchanged in accessible formats. it is a real revolution, which citizens have been waiting for for years and which the european parliament is defending. the bitterness remains for the arduous process of assimilation. for many years the commission has shown very little political will to defend the rights of the visually impaired and the hard-of-reading, and some member states, including unfortunately italy for a period, have used ridiculous arguments to delay the entry into force of the directive. but now, finally, an agreement has been reached, thanks in particular to the work of this parliament and the strong defence of the treaty by the representative organizations of disabled people. we say it again today: knowledge is a right of all.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 18 january 2018, at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on combating trafficking in women and girls for sexual and labour exploitation in the eu (o-000094/2017 - b8-0616/2017) (2017/3008 ((rsp)).
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the directive 2011/36/eu on the prevention and repression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims, which has been in force for some years in the various member states, this phenomenon still does not seem to be diminishing. on the contrary, the data shows a dramatic increase. as we know, in this world of human trafficking, women and girls are the main victims. the commission has in fact recorded that 76% of the victims are women, 15% of whom are children, victims of persecution which forcibly brings them to europe, promising them a better world and a better life. once inside our borders, they find themselves living a nightmare far worse than the one they left in their home countries, going on to join the ranks of sexual exploitation or black labor, run by criminal organizations. according to some unodc figures, every year in europe, criminal groups earn $3 billion from human trafficking for the sole purpose of sexual exploitation. we are well aware that human trafficking is often closely linked to the migration crisis affecting the european union, particularly italy and greece, from the east and south of the mediterranean. does the commission intend to take specific measures to deal with this crisis or does it intend to leave the whole burden on these states? should we not step up our investigative efforts at the frontiers to put a stop to this disgrace? finally, i have to remind the commission that the union is not just the destination of choice for criminal organizations. in many cases the union is also the origin of human trafficking because, as we know, a very large number of young women from the poorest member states are forced into prostitution in the states least affected by the crisis. the humanitarian emergency we are facing is therefore made all the more serious by the worsening economic imbalances within the union, and organised crime is not the only enemy against which we must take a firm stand. poverty is now endemic in many member states: it is an equally dangerous enemy, an invisible ally of organized crime that operates silently from within our borders. we can't take it anymore. it's time to stop this. we are all here, once again, to ask what concrete action the commission intends to take to deal with the problem. we need to have zero tolerance, as has already been said, against human trafficking because, as we know, it is a form of slavery which is in clear contradiction with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks to our colleagues from all political families here who have initiated this debate here today. it is a very timely one and it is about an issue, as we all know, of high sensitivity, at the top of the interests of our citizens. again, my thanks to this house for its continuous active interest and support in our joint fight against this odious phenomenon. i am sure that we will all agree in this room that when dealing with trafficking in human beings what really counts is actions and results, more than intentions and words. the modern ‘slave markets’ in libya and elsewhere, where human beings are bought and sold as cheap commodities, will not be stopped if we do not act now. the ruthless sick minds who take advantage of innocent children – girls and boys – or hopeless and vulnerable adults – women and men – will continue to make astronomical profits if we do not stop them now. the pain from the torture and the indelible damage on the victims’ bodies and souls will not be repaired if we do not protect and take care of them now. unfortunately, the situation, as you all know, is neither new, nor does it happen only in unstable countries. trafficking also happens right here in europe. as is rightly pointed out in your question, there is a strong gender dimension in this picture, while the available data does not capture the real magnitude of this phenomenon. it is also true that these desperate human beings are usually exploited for sexual or labour purposes. therefore, what is needed now is exactly to focus on the specific characteristics of this crime and tackle them with the proper tools. let us be frank, however. the real fight against trafficking in human beings is not being fought here, by the european union institutions. it is on the ground, and it is member states’ authorities that need to deliver, where needed by joint efforts. obviously the commission will continue supporting efforts in these operational endeavours. a demonstrative example of joint efforts can be seen in the information provided by europol. from 2016 until early december 2017, 2 476 new human trafficking cases were referred to europol; 10 664 potential victims were registered, the majority of whom were eu nationals; 10 449 suspects have been signalled in its database, the majority of whom again were eu nationals. all these years, through an ambitious and progressive approach, we have managed in the european union to create a solid legal and policy framework which has brought europe to the frontline of global efforts. now it is time, on the one hand, to fully implement and enforce our strong and modern legal armoury, and, on the other hand, to step up our efforts with targeted and focused actions. my personal commitment, my personal aim, is to bring tangible results, to be as much as possible operational, to make a difference on the ground. this is the reason why last december, as you will remember, i presented a list of further concrete measures to step up our action to disrupt the modus operandi of traffickers, to strengthen victims’ rights and protection, to intensify internal and external efforts in a coordinated manner, and to widen our knowledge base and provide targeted financial support. we will monitor progress on the actions set out and will report on progress to this house and the council already by the end of 2018. eu-wide updated statistical data on this phenomenon will also be made available in the next progress report in 2018, including on: gender dimension, children affected and forms of exploitation. we are now examining very closely how member states comply with the eu anti-trafficking directive and we will not hesitate to initiate infringement procedures, if needed. on labour inspections, the commission will come soon with the second report on the implementation of the employers’ sanction directive. moreover, gender plays a pivotal role in our new set of actions. in this respect, we will work closely with the european institute for gender equality to deliver practical guidance to member states on how to implement the provisions of the anti-trafficking directive on assistance and protection from a gender perspective. in terms of resources allocated and funding on the gender dimension, the commission’s comprehensive policy review (2016) demonstrated that almost 20% of funded projects were gender-specific in the period between 2004 and 2015. future funding priorities by the commission will ensure that the gender dimension is duly addressed. in that respect, the last call under the internal security fund and asylum, migration and integration fund places priority on the gender dimension. finally, the next progress report will also provide an update on the eu-wide progress made at investigative efforts, based on member states’ information covering the period between 2015 and 2017. thank you very much for your attention and most importantly, for your support. we are all on the same side to bring an end to this odious phenomenon.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it paradoxical that in 2018 we are still talking about slavery, because when we talk about trafficking in women, girls and children for sexual and labour purposes, there is no other name than 'slavery'. three out of every thousand people in the world are slaves, more than a quarter are minors. worldwide, between six and ten million children are forced to work, are victims of sex trafficking, or are segregated as slaves. in our very civilized europe, according to figures supplied by the european commission, 79% of trafficking victims are destined for prostitution and sexual exploitation. it is not the first time that we have been in this chamber discussing and condemning traffickers and looking for measures that can be taken to protect the victims, but if there is no demand, there is no market. we need uniform and strict european legislation, which would enable us to prosecute traffickers and customers in every corner of our union. the commission must take up this challenge and, together with agencies such as europol, increase all investigative efforts in those countries where exploitation is much more widespread. it's 2018 and there are still sex slaves. i would like to conclude, mr president, with the words of simone veil, who we have been recalling for the last few years, who said that europe must prove itself exemplary in the application of human rights. well, let's prove it to him!
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. according to the commission report published in 2016, 76% of victims of human trafficking are women. the most common sources are albania, china, morocco, nigeria, 80% for sexual exploitation. another figure says that 67 percent of trafficked women are sexually exploited. sexual slavery is the story of the male-dominated, patriarchal and violent connotation of this europe towards women, of so many, so many white european citizens who are vocal supporters of human rights. i urge the european institutions to fight without frontiers against sexism and racism and i personally thank mr matera for quoting simone veil and not silvio berlusconi on the subject of sexual exploitation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, it is not necessary to look far to find stories of sexual or occupational exploitation: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. for many of them, exploitation is also a job: endless hours, terrible working conditions and poor pay. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in some cases, these strenuous jobs have led to death, as in the case of paola clemente, who died in 2015 in puglia at the age of 49 from fatigue while picking grapes at 2 euros an hour. places where corporal punishment is practiced, where there are systems of intermediation of labour with many complicities. the european union must take action, not only to bring traffickers and exploiters to justice and to punish the companies that are complicit in their activities, but also to pursue a policy to ensure that many girls are not forced to hand over their future to unscrupulous criminals. we need education policies that create more opportunities, we need labour and welfare policies that ensure economic and social independence, we need stricter policies on rights and their full safeguarding. in short, commissioner, we must move from words to deeds.
mr president, commissioner, human trafficking, which sees women and girls as predestined victims, is a phenomenon that unfortunately does not tend to decrease but which, despite the adoption of the anti-trafficking directive in 2011, shows worrying growth rates, mainly due to the ongoing migration crisis, during which, in particular, the number of unaccompanied minors has grown exponentially. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of minors against the risks of sexual exploitation. in the face of such serious abuses, the commission has a responsibility to act so that all member states fully implement the anti-trading directive. in concrete terms, the national authorities must increase the number and effectiveness of investigations and prosecutions, improve the procedures for identifying victims and, of course, provide them with specialised assistance and protection.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking colleagues again for this very interesting debate and their substantial and useful contributions. i make no secret of the fact that i was pleased to hear that all of us in this room share the same approach, as i elaborated in my introductory remarks. we have taken a very clear stance based on determination, resolve and principles. over the years, the european union and the member states have demonstrated a strong commitment to cracking down on unscrupulous criminals, preventing the crime and, most importantly, protecting the victims. we have developed a robust eu legislation and policy approach. now we have to ensure full compliance with the european union’s laws and be more operational with our work. only if we all work together – the presidency of the council, member states, the european parliament, civil society and our agencies – can we make a difference on the ground, and we are determined to do so. i can only assure you that the commission is committed to reinvigorating efforts and that the new set of priority actions is already being implemented. for me personally, as i stressed at the beginning during my introductory remarks, i am committed to delivering on that. i will be happy to inform parliament later this year on progress achieved. thank you for your support.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a discussion on the commission's declaration on the european year of cultural heritage 2018 (2018/2509 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, 2018 is the european year of cultural heritage. as you will remember, it was launched at the european culture forum in milan on 7 december 2017, in the presence of a vibrant crowd of 800 participants from a wide range of cultural organisations: unesco, the council of europe, the member states and the european institutions. we were joined by the estonian presidency, the committee of the regions and the european parliament. we were honoured by the presence and active participation of the european parliament’s president, mr antonio tajani, the chair of the committee on culture and education, ms petra kammevert, and ms sylvia costa, who led the european parliament’s negotiating team on the decision for the year. i would like to warmly express my thanks to all of them, including the european parliament’s rapporteur, mr mircea diaconu, for the decisive role they played in making this european year of cultural heritage happen. the european year of cultural heritage comes at a particularly decisive moment in the history of our union. it comes at a time when the european union is grappling with issues that go to the very heart of the values it stands for, and that will have a bearing on how the union will evolve. the european year of cultural heritage also comes at a time when culture is high on the european union’s agenda. in gothenburg last november, the european heads of state and government discussed the important role of education and culture in strengthening people’s sense of belonging to a cultural community. as a contribution to this debate, the commission issued a communication on strengthening european identity through education and culture, which proposed, among other things, to strengthen the european agenda for culture. in december, the european council followed up, recognising the importance of the 2018 european year of cultural heritage. indeed, the european year of cultural heritage offers us a unique opportunity. by engaging with our cultural memory, we can better understand and raise awareness of the many cultural influences on which our identities are based and we can develop our vision for the future. we can reconnect our citizens with their roots as europeans, while respecting and cherishing the values created by different communities. this is the message we want to pass on, with the motto of the year: ‘our heritage: where the past meets the future’. so, what have we done so far to put this year in motion? first, we have mobilised a wide network of civil society and heritage operators who are helping us to implement the year on the ground. we have also mobilised member states. we each have a dedicated national coordinator for the year and have national and regional programmes of activities. we have been working very closely with the european parliament, listening to you and involving you in all our stakeholder meetings. we have launched a specific call for proposals under the creative europe programme, to fund transnational cooperation projects in the field of cultural heritage. we have developed synergies with existing initiatives in the field of cultural heritage, in particular the european heritage days, the eu prize for cultural heritage and the european heritage label. all these are fully involved in the european year, and we have established a committee of stakeholders involving 35 heritage, cultural and youth networks, selected through the voices of a structured dialogue framework on culture. furthermore, commission departments have joined forces to top up the year’s dedicated budget with additional projects funded through regular funds. in the case of research, for example, this has led to over eur 100 million of investment in cultural heritage. finally, we have launched a communication campaign to give high visibility to our actions. the website is up and running in 24 languages, in addition to a video, leaflets, a very active social media strategy and a newsletter which goes to 4 000 stakeholders. but the year has only just started. a wide array of activities and events lie ahead. we are now putting the final touches to ten major initiatives at european level, organised around four pillars: engagement, protection, sustainability and innovation. we have an ambitious programme, comprising over 100 european-level events and around 2 000 national and regional events during the year. these are designed to resonate far beyond the year itself. it is only in the light of its long-term impact that we will be able to judge the year’s success. a successful year will help us to better protect and manage tangible and intangible testimonies from our past and ensure that our fellow europeans become increasingly aware of the value of cultural heritage for our identity and for our future. i know the commission can count on this house’s support and active participation to turn this vision into reality. cultural heritage makes us europeans. our heritage makes europe meaningful, so i believe that this is a project we all endorse and uphold, because in these difficult times, in this existential moment for europe, culture is one of the pillars of our existence.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked to have had a different time for this important debate, because we have fought very hard in parliament, as you know, for this european year of cultural heritage, which sees an exemplary teamwork with the commission, the council and civil society. i would also like to thank the directorate-general for culture and our fellow rapporteur, mr mircea diaconu, and i think, i really hope, that all our colleagues will feel that they are ambassadors for this year. the scale of the initiatives and participation that have been set up across europe, but also the eurobarometer responses, confirm that we were right, that the vast majority of europeans believe that the common cultural heritage is a primary asset to be shared, on which europe needs to invest much more. it is a message that is counter to nationalism, walls and the questioning of europe's very identity. it is a valuable opportunity to share thematic initiatives aimed at protecting and enhancing europe's tangible, intangible, landscape and digital cultural heritage, a universal asset that expresses the rich linguistic and cultural diversity but also a common european identity, an extraordinary resource for intercultural and interreligious dialogue, as also recalled in gothenburg. as we had hoped and as emerged from the milan forum in december, 13 commission directorates-general took specific action in a transversal approach on three major objectives: to make citizens, especially young people, feel involved, to recognise the economic and employment value of heritage and to enhance the role of culture. we want this year to be the prerequisite for the european agenda for culture 2019-2021 and finally for a centrality of resources and attention to culture in the new multiannual financial programme.
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and that it is very pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been able to take part in the debate on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. it's a beautiful project, which has had the support of important italian and european universities but never public funding from the italian government. so what did he do? he became famous for another reason: she won a tv quiz called "l'eredità" in italy and half of her prize money went to keep the excavations going to find tannetum. i hope that this year of cultural heritage will help many paolo storchi in europe who, marginalized by cuts in culture and education, are still struggling to preserve the heritage of the past and hand it on to future generations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the comments made by the previous speakers and for that very reason i shall confine myself to a few points. i too would like to make one critical remark. i am sorry that the debate has been confined to the end of the day because it deserves a more enthusiastic response from the members of the european parliament. the 2018 european year of cultural heritage must in fact see a concerted effort to make it not a point of arrival but a point of departure. otherwise we would be putting in doubt all the reasons and aims behind the choice which, in fact, and i emphasize this positively, has been shared in a practical way by all the european institutions, the member states of the union and civil society. it 's not a coincidence . the preservation and enhancement of europe's cultural heritage is, among other things, a fundamental dimension of european identity, the result of a shared history, which certainly includes the christian religious dimension. the coherence that we cannot afford to lose calls for us as parliament to make some consistent choices in the next financial framework with regard to the new generations, education in cultural heritage, and the awareness that cultural heritage is a factor of cohesion and inclusion.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to express my thanks to all of you who participated in this debate. to be frank with you, i would prefer to see more people in the chamber today. you who are present here have proven your strong interest in, and support for, the european year of cultural heritage. our cultural heritage forms our identity, which is naturally rooted in the national and local context, but which also transcends borders to form and strengthen a european identity. our cultures have common denominators, such as common democratic values, common principles and, most importantly, a common cultural consciousness, which will define our common european cultural future. with full respect for our national cultures, we can build the pillars of our common cultural architecture for the years to come. i am sure that many events that will be happening throughout the year will successfully spread this message. in this context, i would urge you to become ambassadors of the year by making its ideas and activities widely known amongst european citizens and participating in events, be it at european, national or local level. the commission will continue working with you as one of our principal partners of the year. more than the economy, what will define the future of our union is our common cultural identity, which will guide us towards our common future as genuine believers in the european ideal. we can be, in a very harmonious way, proud of our national heritage, and we can be europeans in our spirit and consciousness. this is the noble goal that the european year of cultural heritage is meant to serve.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european cultural heritage is a common good that must be protected, preserved and enhanced as much as possible and not used as a tool to try to gain some visibility in the run-up to the election campaign. i believe that it is essential to draw up a long-term plan and strategy at european level too, and not to launch spontaneous initiatives, which are not adequately funded and which are confined to the media. cultural heritage must be preserved and enhanced on a daily basis, because only culture and knowledge can help us to acquire the intellectual means necessary to interpret better the complex reality of the present, as well as to understand and accept those who are different from us. in this connection, concrete projects for the recovery, preservation and enhancement of cultural heritage would be needed. in this way, the european citizens could see firsthand the usefulness of such an initiative, which otherwise risks being an empty advertisement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european union should instead give support to these actors and offer solutions, together with the member states, to the problems they are facing alone.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are now more than 5 500 regulated professions in europe, to which must be added many other professions which are not regulated. this varies widely from country to country ranging from the 76 regulated professions in lithuania to the 543 in hungary and covering 22% of the european workforce. with the report we are putting before you today for debate and vote in this house, parliament intends to respond to the european commission's communication on recommendations for reform of professional services. this initiative is to be welcomed as it has the merit of providing an overall assessment of the state of implementation of this directive and an overview of the rules that apply in the different member states to architects, civil engineers, accountants, lawyers, industrial property consultants, real estate agents and tourist guides. the communication first of all stresses the need to implement the provisions of the directive fully. the need for greater mobility and competition in the professions is clear, and the commission document undeniably shows that there is considerable room for manoeuvre in the legislation of the member states. i also believe that any assessment of the effectiveness and proportionality of national legislation must be made taking into account not only economic and quantitative factors, as is too often the case and as can be seen from reading the documents of the european commission. the direct link identified between reforms and economic growth, between deregulation and job creation, cannot and must not be the sole guiding light for policy makers. it is important to stress that the quality of professional services is one of the key factors in preserving our social and economic model and in ensuring the competitiveness of our economy. this is why we need to promote rules that support young people's access to employment, growth and innovation, while at the same time protecting the quality of services provided, public interest objectives and consumers. in order to assess the regulation of professions, therefore, a combination of economic considerations and political assessments is necessary in order to defend general public objectives, while respecting the non-discrimination and proportionality provided for in the treaties. to preserve a high quality of professional services, however, we need not only an effective and proportionate regulatory framework at the level of the european union but also active policies to support the professions, especially in relation to the challenges posed by globalisation and digitalisation. the freelancer must be considered in two dimensions: the first is that of a professional in the strict sense and the second is that of a small entrepreneur. this requires lifelong training, services to promote greater intra-european mobility and a greater propensity for internationalisation, a reduction in bureaucratic burdens and easier access to finance. in particular, strong attention should be paid to the impact of digitalisation on professional services. on the one hand, the opportunities can certainly be highlighted, but on the other hand, the implications in terms of employment and the quality of the services provided will have to be carefully assessed. ladies and gentlemen, europe's competitiveness and the preservation of our social, economic and cultural model also require the protection of the quality of professional services for the benefit of citizens, businesses and authorities.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members for this interesting debate. it is clear that we share the common aim of creating an effective legal environment so that we can ensure high—quality professional services. the mutual evaluation exercise was an important first step, but it also showed that much work remains to be done. analytical tools like the restrictiveness indicator can support us in this effort by pointing out possible instances of inadequate regulation or over-regulation. it is then for the member states to examine the justification for these restrictions and to check whether there are alternative, less harmful measures. the proposed proportionality test will also be a key instrument for preventing the adoption of disproportionate professional rules. the commission thanks the house once again for your support for its policy initiative and looks forward to working with you to create competitive and high-quality professional services.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in closing this debate, let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and all those who took part in the debate this morning. in conclusion, i would like to stress one word: the balance between the two has been underlined by several interventions. we are dealing with a market which has very often been perhaps the most closed of all european markets, sometimes not only at national but also at local level. the professional has often been identified as one who operates on the ground, on a local basis, and we need - and this is what the european directives call for, and the work we are doing we reaffirm in this report - to expand the intra-european mobility of professions, to give more opportunities for inter-european mobility to young people, to improve the quality of services, to increase supply within the eu and competition. but at the same time we also need to ensure that national regulations guarantee proportionality, are proportionate in terms of access to these professions, protect citizens, protect public authorities and protect consumers. however, i would like to stress one point at this final stage. i believe, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the competition will not be between european professionals. the digital market is opening up our market to the world: now that you can find online platforms offering professional services from anywhere in the world, the barriers have been broken down. and so i think that the qualifying point we want to work on and which we have included in this report is that we need stronger, more capable professionals, more able to be on the international market, and this is done through training, through digitisation, through collaboration between the national professional system and within a european system. this is what we're looking at. the challenge is difficult, it is a challenge we will continue to work on, and i believe that with the cooperation of the commission and the adoption of the next directive on the proportionality test, we will have the elements to ensure that european professionals have the characteristics and the capacity to compete in the global world.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard the news of the kidnapping of two americans and two canadians in northern nigeria, in which their nigerian escorts were killed. this episode testifies to the insecurity that prevails in the north, with boko haram continuing to operate. we must recognize president buhari's efforts in the fight against terrorism. it's a difficult undertaking, against a skillfully ferocious enemy. we condemned the ethnic conflicts between transhuman herders and sedentary farmers in the north of the country. the recurrence of such interethnic conflicts is a sign that demographic pressure requires a change in the economic model. we call on the nigerian government to promote mediation from below, to bring an end to these conflicts and to define economic policies adapted to population growth as soon as possible. on the human rights side, there remain pockets of violation that we are concerned about and we call on the government to commit to respect for dignity and human rights throughout the country.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, mismanagement of public resources and endemic corruption is having a direct and massive impact on the enjoyment of basic rights by nigerians, about 54% of whom live in conditions of extreme poverty. considering that nigeria has been ranked 136 out of 175 countries in terms of perception of corruption, nigerian authorities must strengthen measures to tackle corrupt practices, as there is a dangerous link between corruption and terrorism. those threats are pushing the country towards regressive steps. as affirmed by president buhari, corruption has been largely responsible for previous failures to end the boko haram insurgency. the international community has improved its support for the nigerian government’s efforts to fight the boko haram threat by increasing assistance. however, if the nigerian government fails to tackle corruption, all efforts to end violence will be trivial and a huge amount of the resources supplied will be lost. worse, our money will fuel an evil system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing inter-ethnic conflicts in the middle belt between herders and farmers are only the latest element of concern in nigeria, which has been ravaged by the terrorist offensive of boko haram. the nigerian government must act immediately to ensure the shared management of economic and natural resources. the european union must not only condemn the acts of extermination and ethnic cleansing, but also call on the un to investigate what is happening in nigeria. the european union must strongly intervene in the nigerian government to get it to ratify the african charter on democracy, which is necessary to guarantee free elections and to combat rampant corruption. nigeria is the most populous country in africa and will soon become the third most populous country in the world. europe must continue to support the country through long- and short-term measures, such as the package for the reconstruction of borno state, which has been devastated by boko haram. but, commissioner, that is not enough, because it is precisely the sharing of the commitment to guarantee human rights that is at stake in the european union's challenge in africa.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 15 years in prison, on the sole ground that i am a tibetan: is the sentence that is about to be imposed on tashi wangchuk, a shopkeeper who had the audacity to claim in a new york times video the sacred right of tibetans to study in their native language. tashi was accused of inciting separatism and imprisoned for two years. now he's facing the prospect of a 15-year sentence, and with a 99 percent conviction rate, the risk is almost certain. like tashi, wu gan, xie yang, lee ming-che, choekyi and many others are further victims of xi jinping's repressive patriotic education against anyone who deviates from his line. journalists, human rights defenders, buddhist monks and religious minorities such as the uighurs and falun gong. the fight against terrorism is always a good excuse for implementing ever more rigorous surveillance and censorship. perhaps china will indeed become, by the middle of the 21st century, the world's leading power, as xi jinping predicts, but it must also be, and above all, the rule of law, not just trade.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again, for the umpteenth time, to discuss the human rights situation in the democratic republic of the congo. all the previous resolutions we have discussed, voted on and passed in this house have unfortunately led to nothing good. it's discouraging that the years go by and the situation is always the same: an entire country in the grip of the continuous postponements of a leader who is stuck in his chair and who has now gone so far as to shoot at the crowd protesting, demanding the respect of the agreement according to which it should have been voted by 2017. new elections are scheduled for december 2018: we have another year ahead of us in which we hope that the situation will not deteriorate further, a year in which it will be essential for the international community to intervene by all diplomatic means to avert a worsening of the situation which could lead to even more serious unrest. one year to finally guarantee the elections to which this people are entitled under international norms and their own constitution.
i join those members who believe that this debate has some meaning if it leads to some concrete solution, to concrete steps that the eu will be able to enforce. there was talk about freezing the savings of the congolese regime's criminal officials, about re-evaluating our aid to that country, about examining how much of the money we send to congo ends up not in the hands of corrupt officials, but if and when it helps ordinary citizens of that country who live in terrible conditions. we are not going to solve the situation, of course, that is clear, but at least to exert concrete pressure and not just adopt a resolution should be the result of this meeting today. pressure president kabila to finally hold presidential elections and to have proper elections this year, if possible, so that there is a change in the leadership of this country, because 2017 is perceived as the worst year of contemporary congo with the highest levels of violence against the civilian population. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. as a lawyer, i don't recognize the principle of collective guilt. i don't agree with labelling businesses a priori without having evidence of specific causes, that someone is corrupt just because they are an entrepreneur and they are doing business somewhere. let's talk about how aid to the congo is actually going, how it's being used. the commission should have information on how european money is used in the congo. if a particular company causes crime, corruption, then of course it is affected, but please, the principle of collective guilt based on the ideology that capitalists a priori corrupt does not apply.
madam president, weary of the congolese government's masked ball, monsignor laurent monsengwo had to write a pamphlet: "let the poor get out". he was referring to the incumbent leaders who became champions of political intrigue but, at the same time, unable to respect democratic principles. how can we explain the fact that tear gas has been thrown into churches and that peaceful demonstrators have been killed for their demands to respect the new year's eve agreements which have been promoted and not respected? we must admit that the electoral calendar published by ceni looks like a farce and history will tell us. today, all congolese political actors must come together around a table for a non-violence pact so that the country can get back on its feet. with bishop laurent monsengwo, there is really a reason to say: "let the mediocre get away".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how many more resolutions we have to vote on in this house, how many more words we have to hear in the face of a country which is collapsing more and more, a country in the hands of a criminal, its current president, who is himself based on a circle of kleptocrats who are pillaging the public good, who are depriving whole generations of a future, a dream and a normal and dignified life. a character who is allowing, at this moment, that protesters are being shot at, that even places of worship are being violated. how many times do we have to argue about this? the reality is that perhaps our union itself is very hypocritical about this. perhaps, in a country that is blessed by nature and cursed by man, a kabila is convenient. it's convenient for our business, let's be honest. it's convenient for those who don't want to sanction them. and i say to you that we will continue to make 500 more resolutions in the coming years until we have the courage to freeze the assets of this shameful ruling class that is now ruling the democratic republic of congo and until we punish our companies by directly sanctioning them. we have to stop making fun of ourselves and stop talking about cotonou if we have no desire to apply it!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as i said in my introduction, the commission has endeavoured to reach a pragmatic arrangement with norway that would have allowed the resumption of fishing activities for snow crab without prejudice to the eu’s legal position on svalbard. to protect the interests of our fishermen, we have been working at each stage of the process, in close cooperation with member states. every step has been prepared and established by consulting all member states and keeping them regularly informed. we were not able to conclude successfully, partly because of the narrow margins of manoeuver defined by member states, and partly because norway focused on one single solution, which is a quota exchange for the entire norwegian continental shelf. you should nevertheless appreciate that we managed to preserve our position on svalbard, as requested by member states, and that we managed to avoid an escalation. in particular, we were able to conclude successful bilateral fisheries arrangements for 2018 to the satisfaction of member states and norway. i think a number of you, including mr wałęsa, asked why the european union was not taking norway to court. here i would like to underline, as mep krupa, mentioned that the european union is not party to the paris treaty and therefore it cannot take norway to court for non-compliance with that treaty. mr pabriks also mentioned the issue of compensation. direct compensation for such losses is not possible under any of the eu funds in this case. however, the emff can assist fishermen who want to seek other fishing opportunities to adapt their vessels and gears so as to avoid staying idle in port. the issues, and this has also been pointed out by mr mamikins, at stake around svalbard go beyond fisheries interests and are too important to allow the conflict to drift towards an escalation, so prudence is important. from our side, we are prepared to continue the talks with norway, but obviously we will need to wait for a new window of opportunity. i would like to conclude by thanking you very much for your kind attention and, as mr kelly mentioned, your support as well. (applause)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 january 2018.
last week we were saddened to learn of the death of our colleague édouard ferrand. elected to the european parliament in 2014, he was the head of the national front delegation to the enf and served on the committee on agriculture and rural development and the joint parliamentary committee with turkey. mr ferrand left us following an illness which he wanted to keep until the end in absolute discretion and in the face of which he showed great dignity. he leaves behind a wife and five young children. i had the opportunity to exchange views with him last year when he was representing his group in italy on a visit to the earthquake-affected areas. although i did not share his ideas or his vision of europe, i remember that he defended his political position with conviction. on behalf of parliament, i would like to express my deepest condolences to his family, his wife, his children and all those who were close to him during his lifetime and who are now mourning his death. i invite you to join me in observing a minute of silence. (the house adopted a minute's silence)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask this house: can you be the target of madness and hatred just because of the color of your skin? shoot from a moving car and indiscriminately hit as many blacks as possible. this is the result of those who incite racial superiority, who instill fear in citizens, who use and promote their political offer by fomenting hatred. my support from this house to all victims of hate, regardless of the colour of their skin.
thank you, mr kyenge. what happened in macerata, italy, is something unacceptable and unacceptable which we all condemn with firmness and without any hesitation.
article 21 of the rules of procedure provides that the request must be made by three parliamentary groups representing the largest number. this is not a penalty within the meaning of the rules of procedure, which may or may not be imposed by the president. it is not the president or the bureau that decides, but the conference of presidents. so it is a request from the groups, it is not a penalty imposed under the regulation, but article 21 applies. all i had to do was enforce the rules. it was voted on in the conference of presidents and therefore the whole procedure was respected. so it is not about sanctions, because the president cannot impose sanctions for what happens outside parliament. i can impose sanctions for what happens inside parliament. the request for removal from office of the vice-president is, under rule 21, dependent on a request from several political groups.
mr bullmann has asked to speak, but it is not that we have to debate mr czarnecki, because the decision has already been taken. a vote will be taken and the sovereign chamber, by secret ballot, as requested, will decide what to do. i only answered the honourable member in legal terms because he had referred to the bureau. the bureau has nothing to do with it, and the sanctions imposed by the president have nothing to do with it. it is a decision taken under article 21 and the whole procedure has been followed. mr czarnecki was also given the opportunity to make his point. the minutes of the meeting you had with me were signed and there was no apology from mr. czarnecki. so, it was all done in the sunlight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too think that there should be sticks. that is why i have sent to your office a letter signed by over 100 members asking that political forces such as casa pound, who call themselves the fascists of the third millennium, should not be allowed access to the european parliament. i would like this house to respond and try to keep these stakes firm, because after the events in macerata they must be rejected and they must be rejected firmly wherever fascism is found.
mr. forenza, there are rules that must be respected in this house. the president does not authorize events, but he can prohibit initiatives within parliament. but when there are no prejudiced people or people who are listed on terrorist lists, i can't stop a parliamentarian... (the president declared the common position approved as amended) your honor, there's no need to raise your voice with me. sit down and respect the house! sit down and respect! shut up! very well, i see that democracy doesn't even know what it is! you finished your rally without asking for the floor? it's useless! calm down, because we're not here to argue, we're here to express political positions. so i call you to order and civility. you got it? i was answering: when a person is invited by a parliamentarian, whatever political force he belongs to, and there are no violations of the law, we cannot ban a demonstration. so much so that nothing was said, and then the political exposure had nothing to do with the macerata affair. i may not share the views, but otherwise we will no longer allow or rather prohibit demonstrations or meetings within parliament organised by members. but all members of parliament, as mr lamberts said earlier, are equal because they represent the people. then one can condemn their ideas, but when there are no statements that violate the rules we cannot prevent these meetings. now let's move on because we've said enough.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 1 february 2018. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendment to the final draft agenda: monday and tuesday: no amendments are proposed. wednesday: the report by mr corrao on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in portugal will be added to the votes on wednesday. are there any objections? (parliament adopted the resolution) i have received a request from the enf group to postpone the vote on the report on the composition of the european parliament to thursday 8 february or 1 march 2018.
democracy respects the decisions of the majority. we have taken a decision by a large majority. a secret ballot shall be held. so everyone can decide as they wish.
is there anyone who wishes to intervene against mr. bay's request?
the agenda includes the report by mr fernández, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report of the european central bank (2017/2124 (ini)) (a8-0383/2017). before i give him the floor, i would like those members who do not intend to stay in the chamber to decide to do so as soon as possible.
thank you very much, mr president. i also want to thank you for your personal cooperation with the committee on economic and monetary affairs and with parliament.
as for the blue card questions, i will grant them after the representatives of the groups have spoken, because then everyone has the opportunity to reply. mr coburn has now spoken. mr henkel will be able to speak later. i now give the floor to mr balz.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fernández, and all the political groups for their contribution to this balanced text, which clearly expresses a positive view of the monetary policy action of the ecb and recognises the importance of non-conventional measures to ensure price stability, avoid deflation and improve access to credit for firms and households and, ultimately, to boost economic growth and employment. as you said, mr draghi, if the results are undoubtedly positive, we cannot yet declare victory, and the decision to continue the bond-buying programme until september, and beyond if necessary, is therefore fully acceptable. of course, monetary policy alone is not sufficient to ensure the transition from a cyclical to a structural recovery. this requires, on the one hand, an appropriate policy mix, with socially balanced structural reforms aimed at increasing growth potential and a fiscal policy which, on an aggregate level, moves in tandem with monetary policy and not against it, and, on the other hand, completing economic and monetary union and strengthening its governance and instruments. the reform package presented by the commission is an important first step in this respect. parliament is doing its part to make it more ambitious and also to help guarantee the independence of the ecb, even in the delicate steps ahead in the renewal of certain top positions in its council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what are the consequences of the policy which is described and even praised in the report? that sovereign debt securities, which were previously purchased by private banks, are now deposited in the assets of national central banks. who's the winner? only one: germany. the seller and financier, who had, moreover, wrongly chosen his debtor - greece and spain - and is being saved by us poor taxpayers from the poor countries of southern europe. to save it, we went into debt with the ecb. we are now in a situation where it is easy to predict that financial interest rates will rise to the detriment of those who have taken on debt, that is, us in general, with a clear risk, namely that of destabilising the financial markets. another issue is the muv, which is the sole european supervisor, which has been taken away from the central banks and has failed to protect depositors. despite the stress tests, there has been a frightening series of banking crashes, a situation which is now the focus of attention of italian voters, with very serious responsibilities in the government. what, i wonder, and i hope you will answer, was the monitoring and control activity of the mvu? can you give us any concrete figures? can you give us any guarantees for the future? and then, and i conclude, president draghi, will you finally have the courage to say what you know very well, namely that derivatives are a cancer cell of the financial system?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with you that we need sound national fiscal policies at european level, which are favourable to growth and respect the stability pact, and also socially balanced but also ambitious reforms. the forecast of a euro area inflation rate of below 2% until 2020 confirms that monetary policy alone is not sufficient to support the economic recovery. it must be accompanied by concrete policies at national and community level. improving the conditions for access to credit for smes is essential. the persistence of differentiated credit conditions in the member states will not be conducive to sound and harmonized economic development. i also believe that there are grounds for concern about the uncertain consequences of the quantitative easing instrument, as a result of the recovery in consumption. i thank president draghi for the courage of the choices he made during these difficult years. but i think that the tasks of the ecb require greater transparency towards the general public and greater accountability to parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this scandal has crossed all ethical and moral boundaries. nitrogen dioxide is harmful to human health and this is well documented. the german car industry should therefore simply have adapted and not tried to prove its alleged safety. it is extremely disconcerting that parts of the scientific world have been willing to carry out unacceptable experiments that put the health of humans and animals at risk. those tests constitute a violation of fundamental rights recognised by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, but also of regulation (eu) no 536/2014 on clinical trials for medicinal products for human use and of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the commission must undertake a thorough investigation of these practices and their compliance with european law and, hopefully, initiate an infringement procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner bieńkowska, these are the people who are feeding the false science, the ready-made pseudo-science of the lobby. when, in 2012, iarc declared that diesel exhaust fumes are certain human carcinogens, the car lobby rushed to fund these shameful and unacceptable experiments on animals and humans in an attempt to refute the science. and it's clear why they did that, because in those same years, the auto industry was building make-believe cars, selling them as greener, misleading consumers and causing one of the most serious health problems of our century: air pollution. it is a silent killer, causing over 400 000 deaths a year, and 37 million dirty diesel cars continue to be driven on our roads, in the utter indifference and inaction of the member states, and you have mentioned this. commissioner, the people of europe have had enough. the time for car manufacturers' discounts is over. i thank you and appreciate your words, but i expect the commission to take concrete action and not back down on the mobility packages because we are again winking at the car manufacturing sector and this is no longer acceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the end of the unjustified geoblocking is a further step in the process of building the digital single market. after the abolition of roaming and after we have enabled the portability of online content, european citizens will finally be able to see the end of those unjustified barriers and discriminations which have hitherto been an obstacle to the possibility of european e-commerce. the commission found that over 63% of online sales sites still implement blocking measures, which often result in the practical impossibility of completing a purchase or choosing the best offer. from today, online shopping will be easier. for example, the possibility of renting a car without paying any surcharge depending on the nationality or location of the consumer is certainly an achievement. however, in conclusion, there are still important challenges ahead which cannot be overcome until a harmonised framework of tax rules, product safety guarantees and full consumer protection is in place.
in writing. geoblocking is a discriminatory commercial practice used to artificially segregate markets in order to maximise profits. in other words, what happens in practice is that online sellers either prevent consumers from accessing a website because their ip address points to a specific geographical location, or they redirect them to a local online sales site that offers different prices. in this context, and with a view to the completion of the digital single market, geoblocking practices should be prohibited, especially in those sectors such as audiovisual where such a practice is obvious and unjustifiable in the eyes of the ordinary citizen. the regulation in question is therefore a relevant piece of legislation, but its effectiveness has been drastically reduced by the exclusion of audiovisual content, streaming music, video games and e-books from its scope. who are you? certainly not to the citizens of europe who will continue to suffer from the practice of geographical blocking, with a negative impact both on the circulation of content and on the promotion and safeguarding of cultural diversity. the economic interests of a few have, once again, prevailed over the interests of the collective.
in writing. preventing geoblocking and other forms of discrimination against customers based on nationality, place of residence or place of establishment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have often expressed our doubts about a market-based system for dealing with climate policy and climate action. we fail to see the ets as the pillar of the european union's climate policies. we cannot see it because it has not been in the past and i fear it will not be in the future, despite all the many attempts to strengthen this instrument. of course, i very much hope i'm wrong. i have personally asked myself many times whether we are trying to protect the climate or whether we are trying to build a very complicated mechanism of financial engineering and speculation, whether we are trying to reduce emissions in the real world or whether we are only making calculations based on virtual numbers and projections, whether we are seriously applying the polluter pays principle, or whether we want to turn it around - that is, to continue polluting you just have to pay a dime - and, finally, whether we are really trying to push towards the industrial energy transformation of europe, so that it is really sustainable and competitive, or whether we are trying to keep the fossil-based model.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by approving the ets reform, the european union is reaffirming its commitment to the paris agreement, and i also thank mrs girling for her work. this is an important directive, where the climate policy objective of reducing co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 has been successfully combined with the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector and the push for further innovation with the ad hoc fund. it is important, in this respect, to have updated the rules to define which industrial sectors are most exposed to the phenomenon of so-called carbon leakage, in order to capture the real level of exposure to commercial competition from countries that do not apply our environmental protection standards. progress was also made on the issue of compensation for indirect costs. i would have liked to see a european-level compensation mechanism, as parliament has requested, but i think it is important that the commission has committed itself to carrying out a carbon market assessment, which also serves to understand how well the mechanism is working, and in 2024, if it deems it appropriate, to present legislative proposals towards a european mechanism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am not very happy about this. i should like to say that i first of all thank my colleagues in parliament, starting with rapporteur girling, ivo belet, esther de lange and all the others. we had done a good job for a year and a half, but in order to really strike the balance that is needed between climate and environmental policy and the protection of the competitiveness of our industries and the preservation of jobs, one chapter is missing, that of the compensation of indirect costs, which has remained the status quo. parliament had put something better and more on the table. it has been broken in the negotiations by the resistance of the member states, which is incomprehensible, because it causes, even according to the italian antitrust authorities, a real imbalance and imbalance within the single market. the increase in electricity costs from the ets is becoming unsustainable for some countries, such as italy, which already pays 30% more for electricity than the european average. so i ask you, commissioner, not to wait until 2024 to open this chapter and to make it a chapter of social justice and equity. we have discussed this, europe cannot be both mother and stepmother.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been fighting climate change for years by developing renewable energy in industry, transport and building construction. in the coming years, in order to continue to be world leaders in these areas, it will be important to improve access to european funds for those new technologies which, in complete break with the past, focus on an economy that uses little coal and fossil fuels. in addition, europe will have to cooperate with both member states and small and medium-sized enterprises to maintain the commitments it has made under the paris climate agreement. the european union will have to concentrate its action above all on the transport sector, which has been exempted from contributing to the reduction of carbon emissions for too long. finally, i would like to remind you that focusing on the efficiency of public transport and clean energy will help to develop sustainable tourism.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to accumulate resources and thus energy, how many wars, treaties, annexations, laws and social classes have followed one another throughout human history. technological innovation, on the other hand, has always been the tool of change, including social change, ever since man began to use the plow to produce the first form of energy stored in an organized way, food. as policy makers we should be more concerned with defending the future from the shackles of the past, and instead i often see that many of us, unfortunately, are concerned with defending the past from the future. i thank mr buzek for having taken our suggestions into account in his report. producing, consuming, storing and exchanging energy between peers, perhaps with blockchain, is critical to a decisive shift towards a more horizontal, more equal production model. the widespread use of small, networked plants can give a major boost to the energy transition. let us ensure that the energy union, with citizens at its centre, does not remain a closed drawer.
in writing. the key drivers of the eu's energy transition are embedded in the europe 2020 strategy, the 2030 climate and energy framework and the energy strategy 2050 that we have set ourselves as the union. in line with these, the competitiveness and sustainability of european energy policy will only be guaranteed by a continuous stimulus to innovation in the field of clean energy. the commission communication we are discussing today reaffirms this essential step, in line with the three reports voted in january of the so-called energy package, launched by the european commission in november 2016: the commission will present a report on the implementation of the new energy policy in the eu in the coming years. it will therefore be essential to have a coherent vision at eu and member state level, albeit with respect for the different national markets in the sector. in this sense, adequate investment in the medium and long term must not be lacking, both in financing and in human capital, represented in this sector not only by research capital but also by the direct involvement of european citizens, who are the prosumers of our energy market and innovators in this long transition towards a social ownership of european energy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise in this house of the european parliament to denounce, for the umpteenth time, the harmful consequences, the negative consequences of an economic partnership agreement, of a free trade agreement, this time with cameroon. i was in sicily last week, my own region, and in pachino, in the land from which the extraordinary tomato, the daffodil, takes its name, there are tomatoes from cameroon in the supermarkets. local producers can no longer stand on the market, can no longer produce and live a decent life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the italian parties represented here have ratified and voted for this agreement on all sides, and that is absolutely unacceptable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commissioner for the budget, mr oettinger, has recently announced inevitable cuts to cohesion policies in the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. it is a mistake, in my view, to reduce the funds for the union's main investment policy in a europe still reeling from the economic crisis, which has exacerbated economic, political and social disparities within the union. for the poorest regions, such as those in southern italy, this would mean a loss of between four and six billion euros, including the cap cuts announced by the german commissioner. on the contrary, we should increase investment, including new resources for security and defence, exclude national co-financing from the stability pact, and link the disbursement of all funds from the european budget to respect for the rule of law and intra-european solidarity. rather than subverting and undermining cohesion policy, let us strive to provide the european union with adequate resources by seriously recognizing and identifying its own resources. only then can we make an extra effort to find resources and avoid painful and counterproductive setbacks.
before we start the debate on the future of europe with the croatian prime minister plenković, i would like to recall the terrible attacks that shook afghanistan last week. a few days after the attack on the inter-continental hotel in kabul, a car bomb exploded, another attack targeted the marshal fahim military academy, and finally the headquarters of the ngo save the children was hit. these attacks, which have claimed dozens of innocent lives, are unfortunately just one more in a long list of terrorist acts that have been plaguing the world for far too many years. today more than ever we have a duty to remember all the victims. i would like to express to their families, on your behalf, the condolences and solidarity of this parliament. to all those who continue to operate in the field in situations of difficulty and danger i want to say: don't give up, we're on your side. we all have a responsibility to continue to work towards a political solution for peace in afghanistan.
the agenda includes a discussion with the prime minister of croatia, andrej plenković, on the future of europe (2018/2533 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to prime minister plenković, whom i thank for accepting our invitation - and i also welcome him because he was a member of this house at the beginning of this parliamentary term - i would remind you that it is possible to apply for the 'catch the eye' by using the electronic voting machine. to submit your application, insert your ballot card and use any of the electronic voting buttons. i now proceed to open the system which will remain open during the speech of prime minister plenković. i now give the floor to prime minister plenković to explain to the house his ideas and those of his government on the future of europe.
thank you, mr prime minister, for stressing the importance of cooperation between your government, croatia, and the european parliament, which wants to remain at the centre of the debate on the future of europe. in his speech, prime minister plenković put a number of issues on the table which will then be the focus of the debate that will take place. the first comment is from the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, to whom i would like to give the floor.
thank you, mr president. the european parliament shares the position in favour of the spitzenkandidat - i will repeat this to the council at the next european council - just as we share the position on a political budget of the european union. it's not a question of money, it's a question of priorities to choose. there will soon be a series of reports on own resources, and for example we want all companies to pay in the same way. the giants of the web cannot be privileged over other companies. we shall now begin by listening to the representatives of the political groups. the first speaker is mr manfred weber, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. (the system for the electronic registration of 'catch the eye' requests is closed)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression - amid smiles, compliments and applause - that there is someone who remembers the orchestra that played on the titanic before it sank. i'm worried as a father before as an italian citizen. i hear some people say we need to take in more immigrants. croatia wants to join the euro and the schengen system. watch your backs! in recent years, 600 000 fake refugees have landed in italy, not because of the war but because the war is bringing it home. in one year, there were 250,000 crimes committed by foreign nationals: 55% of thefts, 51% of exploitation of prostitution, 45% of extortion, 40% of rapes, that's 1 500 rapes in one year. what about europe? nothing, he actually recognizes the climate migrant figure, as if we don't have enough problems already. i have heard the hypocrisy of the abuse of the words 'democracy and human rights', while in the last few hours the turkish dictator erdogan, the dictator of that country which some would like to bring into the european union, was received with all the honors in rome. i remember that this country does not recognise the genocide of one and a half million armenian citizens, the first holocaust in history, and so i am ashamed at the very idea that such a dictator can be welcomed with full honours in a country like mine and that anyone thinks that turkey can enter europe, unless there are deaths of the a-series and deaths of the b-series, and among the deaths of the b-series the armenians and perhaps the italians are being intimidated by the communists and the partisans titans forgotten by everything and everyone. we're in a bad place on immigration, and we're in a worse place on jobs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. and europe, governed by the juncker commission, is obviously helping the big guys and slaughtering the little guys. what could one expect differently from someone who has been for almost twenty years the ruler of a tax haven like luxembourg, who has helped multinational companies evade paying taxes where they should have been paying them, slaughtering craftsmen, merchants, professionals and small entrepreneurs. and then there is the banking directive, which helps german banks, and the bolkestein directive, which helps multinationals. we're with the little ones, president. we would like to defend our agriculture, our rice, our oil, our milk, our grain, our fish and our way of life. i heard the group leader weber, who gave a great speech. there are more countries, more peoples, more feelings of belonging. the problem is not populism, nationalism, xenophobia and racism. the number one problem right now is islamic terrorism and unemployment that is driving people to react. someone's afraid of the election. some people are afraid of the election. some fear the elections and the italian vote. it means you have a problem. if you are afraid of the free vote of the citizens, then this european union is the sinking titanic. we 'll do our best . europe is changing or the people will change it, starting on 4 march in italy. for some people, the bankers, the multinationals and the immigrants come first, for me and for the league, the italians come first. thank you and good luck to everyone, we need it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, it is a pleasure to see you again and it was also a pleasure to hear some of what you said. in particular, as many colleagues have mentioned, we have a big problem with the future budget of the european union if we want to guarantee at the same time the traditional but important policies such as cohesion and the new policies we are undertaking. it is therefore important to know that there is a willingness of croatia to work together with other countries for a reasonable increase in the budget in relation to the new functions. secondly, i would also like to thank you for your strong support for the spitzenkandidat procedure. we who are in favour of transnational lists would be happy to explain to you how the two can be linked. we voted to make the number of candidates on the lists equal to the number of current members of the european union. so the possibility for everyone is certainly there and i would be happy to explain how that might be possible for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that there is no one from the commission to represent us at the moment, because there are also very important points on the eurozone that need to be discussed. the future of the european union is also centred on the future of the eurozone, and there are proposals on the table that need to be worked out, such as turning the european stability mechanism into the european monetary fund. many political groups are in favour of this initiative, but creating instruments to go so far as to help states when they are in fiscal difficulty without first creating the conditions to resolve the severe economic imbalances that the eurozone suffers from are incomplete solutions. we must find a way of creating tax transfers from surplus countries such as germany and the netherlands and solve the problem of the large tax havens, as you yourself have said, mr president tajani. the founding countries, such as the netherlands and luxembourg, must contribute to this situation in the eurozone. and then we have to find a solution for the sovereign debt. we cannot afford to suffer the conditions of the crisis of 2011 yet. we must find a solution because quantitative easing will not last forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, prime minister plenković, i have greatly appreciated your report and your speeches. its profoundly europeanist nature gives us the opportunity to reflect together with a little optimism on the future of europe. in the face of international uncertainty, europe has a duty to take the lead on a global scale, showing the way to face the fears and move forward with determination towards the policies of the future, the path of which has already been laid down. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states. it therefore has an obligation to tackle with determination the issues of immigration, tax equity and the fight against inequalities which, if ignored, risk undermining the very strength of the european union. in this context, croatia's role is a key one in promoting stability and peace in the balkans, but also in addressing with italy and the other adriatic countries the macro-regional challenges we face.
i also thank prime minister plenković on behalf of the whole of parliament for his availability and for his willingness to give concrete and timely answers to all the questions that were put to him. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
before the vote i should like to inform you that, as requested by mr demesmaeker in the last plenary session, i have written to the spanish authorities to ask for information on the visit of mr demesmaeker and other members to the prisons in madrid. i received the information you requested. according to the spanish authorities, everything has been done in a proper manner and there have been no violations of spanish law. i shall send the reply to mr demesmaeker and the text of the reply is available in my office for anyone who wishes to see it.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner jourová, today, on the world day against female genital mutilation, we renew our call on the european commission to put in place concrete policies to stop this inhuman crime. a vile abuse that perpetuates female subjugation by permanently injuring the reproductive system and causing, throughout the woman's life, pain during the sexual act and often death at the time of childbirth, affecting her in the body and intimacy, depriving her of the pleasure itself that can derive from sexuality and transforming her from being human to a simple container of reproduction for the use and consumption of man. it is unacceptable that this is being done in the european union or elsewhere in the world, but above all it is unacceptable to justify such actions by attributing them to merely distorted religious, sexual, sociological and cultural beliefs. let's put an end to this problem once and for all, because it's all of ours, as today's slogan "ismyissuetoo" says.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by reading the following words: "without circumcision i would never have been considered a woman, never have married, or ever have had children. a worthless being, i could die for them. "these are the powerful words of nice nailantei leng'ete. nice, at just nine years old, decided to go against the will of her family, to go against her traditions. nice has seen many of her peers lose their lives after the cut. nice is a young masai woman who, after escaping from fibulation, has decided to devote her entire life to fighting this harmful and violent practice. with the help of the ngo amref, she was able to study, becoming a women's reproductive health educator. with this knowledge, she was able to convince the elders of her community that a change was necessary. new safer practices that have saved thousands of women. today, nice is amref's ambassador for the worldwide fight against female genital mutilation. this great little woman wanted to change things and with her studies she was able to do so. the increasing migration phenomena bring with them traditions and cultures that cannot be ignored. think of all those second-generation women and girls, european women born and raised in our ways, squeezed between two cultures. so let's give them a voice, let's give them support and information centres for them and their families, let's give them the chance to make a difference, as nice has taught us all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that half a million women in the european union and 200 million worldwide have suffered the trauma of genital mutilation. such mutilation reflects deep gender inequalities and is an extreme form of discrimination against women and girls. these practices also violate their rights to health and safety and physical integrity, and it is essential that the international community, governments and civil society mobilize against this form of violence. i believe that the prevention of such violence must remain a priority for the european union. support should be provided to ngos active in this field, coordinated and systematic initiatives should be promoted with third countries where fgm is practised and concrete prevention and awareness-raising projects should be continued. for example, a good practice in europe is the study carried out last year by the european institute for gender equality, which aims to provide an estimate of the number of girls at risk of female genital mutilation in six eu countries. we must therefore continue to work on concrete projects to eradicate this heinous practice and invest more decisively in assistance, culture and education. europe cannot ignore the worrying data that emerge every day and must strengthen inter-sectoral cooperation. finally, i think it is fair to point out that this fgm is only one aspect of the larger issues affecting women and the policies that discriminate against them. and that is something we cannot forget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of human rights must always be a priority in this house. female genital mutilation is far from a health-related practice, as some claim, but on the contrary can often have terrible effects on the health and well-being, including the psychological, of the girls who undergo it. they are carried out for cultural, religious and social reasons. it's pure violence on the victim. i think it is essential to call for a joint effort by the commission and the member states to put an end to this barbaric practice, in accordance with the provisions of the istanbul convention on combating gender-based violence. we must not only put an end to this tribal practice, which is still practised today in developed countries, but also provide effective support for the victims and facilitate the cultural change which is one of our tasks, and which is necessary if we are to stop talking about fgm.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fifteen years have passed since the thessaloniki summit and the promise of a european perspective for the western balkans. this promise is now back on the agenda. the bulgarian presidency has thus chosen and there is talk of a possible and credible timetable for serbia and montenegro to join our family by 2025. important challenges and steps remain: the european union has a duty to ensure that the political and economic situation in the region is not affected by the political situation in the country. but we have the tools at our disposal: parliamentary diplomacy, strong involvement of civil society and especially young people, the real engine that can drive political forces to make the reforms necessary to get us there. the enlargement strategy and the preparation of a joint summit in may are evidence of our attention. we must now facilitate this process for credible integration that rewards those who go further more for more, less for less , for a stronger and more credible europe, for an enlarged europe capable of becoming more and more a global player.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i listened to your speech and i agree with many of the points in the proposed strategy, although i think it is still a bit of a dream book. it is clear that we all want to see europe completed geographically, and the balkans are certainly part of that, but it is also true that history teaches us that if we accelerate these processes too much, we risk having the opposite effect, the reverse effect. we are living in a time of crisis within the european union, where many things are not working and where we have to be careful when we talk to other countries that have not yet completed reforms and still have serious problems. we have problems between belgrade and pristina, we have problems between a member state of the european union, greece, and the recognition of macedonia, or fyrom as you prefer to call it. so this process has to be accompanied by force and to achieve it we have to take steps one at a time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the gradual rapprochement of the balkan area with the european union is a fundamental instrument for the stabilization of the area and the development of fully democratic regimes. i think that the sofia summit should serve above all to provide action plans for each country, not by creating unrealistic expectations but by providing concrete steps to be taken, and by being careful, as in the case of serbia and kosovo, to look at the path as something that is intimately linked. but we must ask ourselves whether the european union is ready for all this. we have made a major expansion to the east in 2004, a major expansion. at that time, two schools of thought were confronting each other around the world around the idea of exporting democracy: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. but that enlargement was not followed by a proper integration policy, and the political dynamics we are witnessing today, if we think about it, are also the consequence of this limitation which has been highlighted in recent years. so i think it's helpful to have a greater awareness, because to prepare properly for 2025 means first of all to prepare ourselves properly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the accession process of the western balkan countries requires mutual cooperation. it is important that the strategy includes measures such as the provision of funds, in addition to the existing ipa funds, to help the countries of the region to achieve the conditions required for accession. credibility must be the key word in the western balkans. the governments of the region must pursue responsible policies aimed at stability, the protection of rights, the fight against corruption, economic development and effective transport links with the union. 2018 will be a favourable year for advancing the enlargement process with the bulgarian and austrian presidencies, but also with the new summit of the berlin process. the intergovernmental system must be overcome and the european parliament must be involved in this summit, since as representatives of the people they must play an active role in this process.
in writing. brussels' diplomatic efforts to accelerate the accession of the western balkan countries to the eu are increasing these days, as evidenced by commissioner hahn's recent statements and juncker's forthcoming visits to the area. the union's totally unrealistic strategy is to envisage a normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo by 2019. but the recent assassination of the leader of the moderate wing of the serbian minority, oliver ivanovic, was enough to shake the region again. stabilisation is utopian if we do not want to deal with the historical causes of ethnic strife, first and foremost a strong and conflicting islamic presence, as well as the progressive penetration of jihadist groups. but the eu's policy is always the same: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. a short-sighted and inconclusive policy!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the high representative, mrs federica mogherini, for her work and also for this statement. emmerson mnangagwa came to power in zimbabwe in november, after mugabe resigned under pressure from the military, zanu-pf and popular mobilization. during the negotiations for mugabe's surrender, we held our breath because we were afraid that the situation could get out of hand and lead to violence. fortunately, the changeover was peaceful and the new president took office without any problems. the international community even attended the inauguration ceremony, a sign that the transfer of power between mugabe and his former deputy was welcomed. the country is now looking towards a general election by july, if we can believe the president's recent statement. this would respect the normal electoral process. here too we must recognize that the country's new leaders are giving positive signals. the question of transparency and impartiality is at stake in the election. the current president was the first to promise them, calmly invoking the possibility of involving an election observation mission by the european union, as the high representative has already mentioned. the elections are necessary because the present government is lacking legitimacy as a transitional regime and must therefore be confronted with the people of zimbabwe in an electoral contest which we would like to see competitive. here's my worry: zimbabwe is now in a political situation dominated by zanu-pf, the party of mugabe and mnangagwa. the opposition, once represented by morgan tsvangirai, is showing clear signs of fatigue and this could contribute to the devaluation of political offers, that is to say, to the lowering of the protections of zimbabwean citizens. we must remain vigilant and demanding of the new government of zimbabwe on this and on human rights.
mr president, after a very long time of leadership, president mugabe finally resigned from power, ceding to internal pressures and opening a new and delicate scenario. in a situation where the economy of zimbabwe is on the brink of collapse, the upcoming electoral process will be critical for the future of the country and for the re-establishment of the rule of law. the new president, emmerson mnangagwa, recently said that a transparent election will be held by july and that he will respect the result if the opposition wins. fair and free elections are essential in order to stand any chance of reviving the comatose economy and improving the country’s relations with the west. during previous elections zimbabweans have suffered serious human rights violations and severe abuses, including killing and torture. we should manifest our support to the country to prevent the recurrence of such violence. as the forthcoming, pre—electoral period is crucial for zimbabwe, i believe that the european union should monitor this essential step and provide the support and the assets needed to achieve fair and transparent elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 37 years in power have transformed robert mugabe from a hero of liberation from a white and racist minority to an authoritarian despot, a symbol of the corruption and nepotism that characterizes many african countries today. at 93, mugabe was forced to hand over power to his right-hand man, vice president emmerson mnangagwa, a member of his own party. this man promises free and democratic elections and seems ready to welcome international observers, but let's not be fooled by appearances. he is the same man who until a few years ago carried out, without a moment's hesitation, the dirtiest orders of the outgoing president, including torture and violence of all kinds. how can we not forget the massacre in matabeleland, where 20,000 people died, or the harsh repression of the opposition during the 2008 campaign? if the crocodile has the support it needs today, the people of zimbabwe have not forgotten their past, and neither should we. we must spare no effort to ensure free and democratic elections. the voices of the people of zimbabwe must finally be heard.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 january 2018 operation olive branch was launched. the natural continuation of the previous operation "euphrates shield" is yet another episode of erdogan's continuing persecution of the kurdish people. never was a name more tragically mocked. the branch that erdogan is extending towards afrin consists of the bombs of 72 warplanes assisted by dozens of tanks and ground troops. a little over two weeks after the start of operations, the usual tragic numbers game begins. civilian casualties could be over 100 by now. it is therefore impressive to see erdogan meeting the pope, the president of the republic and prime minister gentiloni in rome yesterday, amid armoured roads and clashes between protesters and the police. the content of the talks is strictly confidential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. what i ask myself and i ask you: how many purges and violence must erdogan commit to spark at least a spark of indignation from european governments? a reaction that's not facade? in less than a year since the attempted coup, turkey has become, as one well-known journalist put it, a kind of autocracy with democratic simulacra. anyone who dares to criticize erdogan is jailed. meanwhile, the syrian kurds in afrin, brave soldiers in the war against daesh, are being killed in the embarrassed silence and complicity of the international community. how did we get to this point? the answers are many and range from economic to energy. but the real ace in erdogan's sleeve is undoubtedly that illegal agreement on migrants accepted by the european union in march 2016, which we have repeatedly denounced. the agreement allows him to continue negotiating a surreal enlargement, in which no one believes any more and which must be closed once and for all. the european union has failed and my government has failed, the government of my country, by welcoming the turkish prime minister with the highest honors. we are being blackmailed. it is time to admit this and to raise our heads, to defend democracy, to defend our principles and to defend that brave turkish civil society which still wants to have a voice and wants to have democratic representation.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not greet the high representative because, as is his bad habit, he hears a couple of speeches and as soon as the more critical ones arrive he cuts the rope. the moves of this islamist satrap are incredible and unpredictable. first, it clashes with russia - we remember the shooting down of a fighter - then it negotiates with moscow, then with tehran to reach the astana treaties, to counter the advance of the kurds, brave protagonists of the defeat of isis in raqqa. it is now embarking on a military enterprise aimed at crushing the syrian kurdish ypg militias and securing a safe zone on its border. but what is really happening in this war nobody knows, it is not very clear, although some things seem to be certain, namely, the loss of life by the syrian military, it seems at least twenty only on saturday. but what should most outrage us is what appears to be a hundred civilian casualties, according to kurdish hospital sources, many of whom are women and children. ladies and gentlemen, the high representative is not moving. it is true that the pope received erdogan, but knowing pope francis i am sure that, in addition to talking to him about the human rights of persecuted christians, he will also have told him about these civilian victims. but we know this europe - the high representative is a master of it - in this compartmentalisation of human rights. in some cases they are very serious and international courts are invoked, in other cases they are spoken of in such a generic way as if it were, i do not know, a carnival joke. but this is happening in a region to which we also belong in a certain sense, even though turkey is not in europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the turkish people, but that we should be concerned about the turkish people. well, let's not do that. the european union is not only a member of the european union but also a member of the european union. now this offensive, in erdogan's own words, aims to crush a nascent force seen as an open threat to his security. so this is a very dangerous strategy of erdogan, very dangerous for our future, for our security. but this europe is vile. the adjective is also used to refer to those who forget to condemn, as mrs mogherini did, in strong words, because it is necessary to be tough when women and children are bombed, as has been done in other cases. but here other interests, obviously geopolitical and otherwise, impose this shameful cowardice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what more can be said about turkey now, because what is happening is obvious to everyone, even to the stones. it is clear that democracy is being destroyed and we cannot consider turkey a friendly partner when it imprisons peaceful protesters, impedes freedom of expression and information by arresting journalists and closing newsrooms, poisons the judicial system by depriving judges and professors of their liberty, attacks human rights defenders and acts to eliminate the kurds. i believe that the european union, the european commission, in the face of the things we are discussing and which will emerge in the resolution, must take a much clearer and clearer position and must review relations with turkey and put conditionality on all existing agreements as an essential element in order to move forward in relations with this country. without that, we risk just making sermons. so we need a very, very strong action by the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half after the attempted coup, we are still denouncing erdogan's crackdown on the fundamental freedoms of his own citizens, inside and outside the national territory. at the same time, the new offensive launched in afrin against kurdish militias, part of the international coalition against daesh, is of concern not only for humanitarian reasons. officially, the attack was launched against the terrorist threat. turkey has the right to defend its security, but this is a disproportionate reaction to target an uncomfortable minority. nor does it appear to assess the international repercussions of the breaking of the anti-isis front, a destabilization risk with potentially devastating effects. turkey is a strategic partner for europe. nevertheless, we must continue to condemn the actions of his government and remain firm in the consequences in relations with the eu. as parliament has asked, the accession negotiations must be suspended and then formally suspended, including in economic and financial cooperation, if erdogan continues to destroy the rule of law. europe must play its part.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for this important debate, which i believe creates the necessary international attention, and which, unfortunately, confirms once again that we are all equally fearful and concerned about the developments in turkey and its neighbourhood. it is not the first time that we have discussed this issue, and i fear that it will not be the last time, but it will not be helpful to show disagreement, which i personally share, with a sign that is most likely within the legal framework but which is unnecessarily provocative. as federica mogherini and i stated last week, we keep seeing more worrying developments undermining the rule of law and the independence and impartiality of the judiciary in turkey. we are following the case of amnesty international’s taner kılıç very closely. in particular, the non—implementation of judgments – including the recent constitutional court ruling and continued detention of two journalists – could really undermine the judiciary. in the short term, this affects the cases of individuals, including eu citizens. in the longer term, this could significantly erode trust in the judiciary as a whole, which also affects issues like turkey’s business climate. we must seek concrete and lasting improvements in the area of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. this is an essential footing for eu—turkey relations. many of you here today also alluded to the situation in the south—east of turkey, which remains of great concern. it is essential that a political process start again as there can only be a political solution to the kurdish issue. nevertheless, like some other speakers, i believe it is necessary to keep our channels of communication open. this includes raising our voice regarding the current worrying situation. it is clear: turkey needs to respect the values on which our union is based as per its own commitments as a candidate country and through international treaties. for the benefit of their people, the turkish authorities should take clear steps to urgently improve the human rights situation there and restore the rule of law.
i have received eight motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the deep erosion of the rule of law in turkey is reaching truly shameful levels in what is now a completely out of control country. the fact that the turkish government has extended the state of emergency for the sixth time is a clear sign of erdogan's intention to perpetuate this system until the next elections in november 2019. this context, or perhaps the pretext, is being blatantly exploited by the government to continue to suspend the constitutional guarantees of the turkish people. however, the element i find most worrying is not just the government's actions, but the deterioration of the judicial system, which is the ultimate guarantor of the rule of law. those who should be limiting government abuses are themselves either limited and threatened or, worse, replaced by other oppressors. who's defending the defenders then? i believe that this unhealthy relationship with one of the worst countries in europe in terms of violations of human and civil rights must be urgently renegotiated. the billions of dollars in funding and subsidies to a country which systematically violates almost all our principles of democracy and human rights cannot be justified on the basis of the immigration crisis alone.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2018/2559 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president – as, i think, all members mentioned – there is only one way out of this crisis that is at the same time political, social and humanitarian, and that is a negotiated solution: a peaceful, constitutional outcome that brings the regime and the opposition together in a credible manner. and this is the effort we are supporting with all the means we have and in constant contact with the regional players, because we have always invested in regional dynamics. this is particularly true for our latin american partners, and that region is going to be at the same time more affected and hopefully also more influential. i say this with a deep respect for the institutional and political internal dynamics, but still recognising that what is happening there is not happening behind closed doors and concerns the international community. this concerns the european union and this concerns many european union citizens. many of you have mentioned that european union citizens that are suffering as a result of this crisis. so it is in our interest for a solution to be found. that can only be a political, negotiated solution in a peaceful and constitutional outcome of the crisis. i mention that a peaceful and constitutional outcome of the crisis is a key element because there could be a different outcome. and i think we have to be aware of the risks that a further deterioration of the situation could bring us. so we have mentioned the key elements that most of you have recalled today: credible elections, the release of all political prisoners, respect for democratically elected bodies, upholding of human rights and, very importantly, an alleviation of the suffering of the people of venezuela. that would also imply a different trend in the fleeing of venezuelans to neighbouring countries. that, as many of you recalled, might have a destabilising effect for different political situations in different countries that are also close to our hearts. we will continue to use all the different instruments we have, political support, diplomatic engagements, pressures, work with the international community and with the regional players, direct contacts with the opposition, but also with the authorities. and yes, we have had opportunities to pass very clear messages to the venezuelan authorities, both locally and in brussels, including messages that were very clear on our common position on the decisions that have been taken on the spanish ambassador. i was very clear on that. let me stress one thing – and i will close with this because i know we are running late – the unity of the european union and its member states is remarkable on this issue, maybe more than it is in this chamber. but let me say, the work we have done both in venezuela and in brussels has shown unity of purpose, unity of action and coordinated efforts. i would like to thank the member states for this, because this is what makes the difference when it comes to playing a role and making a difference, again with respect, with no interference. venezuela is a sovereign country, but when there is a political crisis, when there is a social crisis, when there is an economic crisis, when there is a humanitarian crisis and also european interest and regional dynamics are at stake, we have a duty to support a positive outcome to the ongoing efforts. as i said, another attempt is being made at the present time. a solution is possible, we are not seeing this now, but i believe that it is our duty to invest in this possibility.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of unrwa (2017/2553 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president trump's decision to drastically reduce aid to unrwa is clearly stigmatizing and is part of a totally unbalanced us foreign policy. let us also remember the decision to declare jerusalem the capital of israel alone. it marks the death of the already difficult hypothesis of a two-state solution. we ask the european commission, the vice-president: is it not time for the european union and all the member states to show greater courage in the middle east? and by courage i mean an increase in financial contributions. the european union funded the agency in 2017 with just over $143 million, less than half of the us aid, to which must be added the low voluntary contributions of the member states. and i am referring again to political action to ensure that israel actually respects international law, as it continues to build settlements in the west bank with impunity, which has now been reduced to so many isolated enclaves. the vice-president is not here, but i would like to make a further appeal to the commissioner: the recognition of the state of palestine can no longer wait. we are already culpably late and if we do not act now history will judge us guilty of not having done enough for the palestinian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the american decision to drastically reduce funds for unrwa is a blow to the more than 5 million palestinian refugees in the region. the work of the agency is now for many of them the only support in terms of food, health and education, in the absence of a lasting solution to the middle east conflict. risking its activities for political gain, as the trump administration is doing, can have devastating effects for all countries involved, including israel, as some of its officials know well. in addition to renewing its diplomatic and financial support, as high representative federica mogherini has done, europe must work together with the un to encourage other countries - i am thinking in particular of some gulf countries - to renew their commitment, while at the same time seeking solutions to make the agency's operations financially sustainable in the long term, since it must no longer be at the mercy of unilateral decisions. europe can and must play an even stronger role.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – thank you, mr president, and i thank the honourable members for this debate which has highlighted the importance of unrwa once again. it’s clear that we have to assist unrwa in overcoming it current financial crisis. unfortunately, it’s not the first one, but this time it has been triggered by one of the main donors. from this debate i conclude that we all join in a common call for support to unrwa as an important stabilising factor in the region and an important element in ensuring the viability of the two-state solution. without unrwa, millions of people, especially children, would lose access to essential services like education and health care. we all are aware of what it means to lose one generation, or even several generations, if we fail to provide the necessary education and professional training and everything related to this. such a failure might lead to radicalisation and other things which are definitely not in our, or the world’s, interests in future. today, as many members have said, unrwa provides assistance and protection for more than five million palestinian refugees. the european union enjoys a strong and dynamic partnership with unrwa. i see pierre krähenbühl at least twice to three times a year to discuss with him what needs to be done to improve unrwa’s performance in terms of the services it provides we also discuss its internal structural needs and challenges and how unrwa should be reformed. i can tell you that a lot of important measures have already taken. we should further support all the reform measures taken by unrwa itself. so i really appreciate all the support we gained today from parliament, but i’m pretty sure that it will not be the last discussion about unrwa and the palestinians here in plenary.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. every day, more than 500,000 palestinian children learn to read and write in schools run by unrwa, the un agency for palestinian refugees. nine million are the medical visits that this same agency funds in a year through 140 health centers, spread over the devastated territories of the gaza strip, the west bank and syria. a much-needed aid, which at a critical moment like the present one, is being cut by as much as $65 million by its largest donor, the united states, just because the trump-led administration's choices lack that "respect" and "appreciation". a decision with tragic consequences, both for innocent civilians whose survival depends on humanitarian aid, and for europe itself. extreme poverty, in fact, only increases the risk of radicalisation and multiplies the flows of refugees into our countries. it is therefore with satisfaction that i welcome the new eu package of €42.5 million to help the palestinians build their future state, which can co-exist with that of israel. today more than ever, europe needs to make a collective effort to revive unrwa and ask trump to reconsider his choice.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs and hope that this more balanced organization of parliament will also be approved by the council. i also hope that the council will approve the part concerning transnational lists, and i hope that parliament will approve it as it was approved in committee. i would remind mr schöplin and the many who have spoken out against the transnational lists in recent days that we already represent all european citizens. so i am very far away when i am in brussels from a greek voter whom i also represent, just as i am far away from my own voters whom i represent, but i do not represent only the voters in my constituency. having a transnational list of candidates, if possible from all european countries - and the amendment would allow this - led by the candidates for president of the commission would indeed create a space for european political debate. it is useless for us to keep saying that only national issues are discussed in the european elections. we say that all the time. the way to talk about european elections is to have real european candidates, who somehow lead the debate at european level. it's not true that there is no european demos, today it's all full of movements pulse of europe, stand up for europe, wake up europe, civic europe that are independently moving to create this political space of european debate. so does parliament want to do that? does he want to hear the voice of the european citizens who are asking to be able to speak about europe also with their own parliamentarians, also with those who represent them and not just among themselves? i think this is the time. i do not understand how mr schöplin, who has been so active on the european citizens' initiative, cannot see that this is another instrument to give space and a voice to those who want to speak about europe and not about their own national problems during the european elections.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced today with a very delicate task and we must feel the full weight of the responsibility that comes with it. the european parliament is the only institution of the union directly elected by its citizens. let us therefore talk about the direct representation of the latter. the british exit will leave 73 seats vacant in parliament and the rapporteurs, whom i thank, have put forward a proposal in the report for the redistribution of some of them, which i think is quite balanced. but the great novelty of the report is something else. this is the allocation of some seats to a single constituency covering the whole of the union. the candidates would be divided into transnational lists. as the five star movement we have always been puzzled as to whether the peoples of europe are ready for such a step, but we have decided to accept the challenge. yes, but only if this project and the spitzenkandidaten make it possible to create genuine platforms for the pooling of experience from movements and civil society, and not just the exclusive possession of political parties. these lists cannot and must not become a parachute for parties to elect politicians who are no longer able to gather support, but on the contrary they must be an opportunity to broaden and strengthen democratic debate and the link between citizens and the european institutions and the integration process. this and nothing else must be our only real guiding light for the implementation of this reform, which is essential.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by making a point of order, because behind these 73 seats are the faces of many colleagues, friends of the united kingdom. this is the sad side of brexit. the balanced report reduces the number of seats in parliament and improves proportionality, and above all opens the way to the introduction of transnational lists which will help to strengthen the quality of european democracy. we have a gap today, we measure it, between the european dimension of the policies needed to deal with our problems and the national segmentation of the debate on politics. the spitzenkandidat helps to reduce this gap, but if it is not supported by a real europeanisation of the electoral debate in this house it will be insufficient, because we know that the citizens did not vote knowing who the spitzenkandidat was, whether it was juncker or whether it was schulz, but voted on the basis of a national political debate. a transnational list, therefore, which is added to the local lists, will strengthen the european dimension of our common space. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. it is nowhere written what the order of the lists will be and it would be wise and intelligent for all european political parties to have a balanced representation. we have a president of the commission who is from luxembourg today, and so frankly, i do not think that is a sensible argument. it is what an italian philosopher called 'the fear of dangers', always seeing the risk rather than the opportunity of change, which is also added to a very limited extent, an electoral mechanism based on degressive proportionality, which currently and rightly overrepresents the smaller countries.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the council and parliament. 'the commission shall exercise its responsibilities in full independence. the members of the commission shall neither seek nor take instructions from any government, institution, body, office or agency.' the report under consideration refers to this principle but at the same time endorses the explicit derogation from it, allowing commissioners to continue to perform their duties, even if they are candidates for the european elections under the umbrella of a party, thus as bearers of particularist political interests. a 2014 parliament study clearly states that the statutory provision for unpaid electoral leave is a best practice to be extended to other eu institutions. i find it paradoxical that today it is being discussed. the fact that the new code of conduct of the commissioners has removed this provision does not give parliament an alibi to seal its disappearance in the framework agreement. the 2011 code of conduct provided for dismissal in any kind of election campaign. now he stands out: commissioners must take leave if they stand in national elections, but not if they stand in european elections. i don't understand this at all.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this decision on the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission provides for the possibility for european commissioners to take part in the european elections without having to resign first. i have a strong personal concern about this, particularly as regards the conflict of interest. the quality and quantity of the commissioners' resources are undoubtedly of the highest standard, which gives them a potential competitive advantage that is clearly visible to all. moreover, during the election campaign, situations could easily arise which could undermine the very independence which, according to the treaties, characterizes the commissioner. denying the problem doesn't solve it. in our view, the only way to solve the problems raised is for the members of the commission to resign once they have decided to take part in the electoral competition. we therefore firmly believe that parliament should reject the request for amendment of the interinstitutional agreement. on the question of the spitzenkandidat, we believe that a clear definition of this figure can indeed help to bring european citizens closer to the institutions, but this cannot be done if the new identification procedure remains the exclusive preserve of european political parties. this would effectively put out of the way all those movements representing civil society which do not want to form themselves and do not call for the form of a party. parties are part of democracy, but democracy is much more than just parties. that is the message our citizens want to hear.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the first item on the agenda is the early termination of the office of a vice-president of the european parliament. please be careful. we shall now vote on the proposal from the conference of presidents concerning the removal from office of a vice-president of the european parliament, mr ryszard czarnecki. in accordance with rule 21 of the rules of procedure, in order to be adopted, the proposal must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, in favour and against, representing the majority of members of parliament, i.e. 376. in accordance with rule 178 (3), only the votes cast for and against the proposal shall be taken into account for the purpose of obtaining the necessary two-thirds majority. please note that the total displayed at the top of the screen will include abstentions, but only those marked with a "+" and a "-" will be counted. in accordance with rule 180a (2), the political groups which reached the high threshold requested that the vote be held by secret ballot. we can now move on to the vote.
as regards the interpretation of the rules of procedure, since this is the first time that a vote has been taken under rule 21, account must be taken of the general interpretation of the vote in all matters similar to this. abstentions shall not count in the election of the president, the vice-presidents and the quaestors. as regards the approval of the rejection of any text, and therefore of any proposal, only the votes cast in favour and against are counted, says article 178, except in cases where the treaties provide for a specific majority. there is no provision in the treaty for this, and i therefore intend to give a broad interpretation of article 178 and all the other rules which have always governed the election of persons. so, since this is the revocation of an election, i intend to interpret the regulation in this way. so i confirm that the votes counted will be those for and those against.
we can now move on to the secret ballot. i repeat, it requires a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. only the votes for and against will be counted. (parliament adopted the proposal for an early termination of office)
she created a great confusion, didn't explain what was happening and so people didn't know what to vote. that's the way it is. we have ballot papers. she didn't explain what we were voting on.
mr. bresso, if you're listening to me, i'll answer them.
mr president, you did not explain that the article 4(2) and article 4(3) amendments would fall. you did not say that, so we thought we were voting on those, and not on article 5. non lo ha detto, quindi non l'abbiamo capito.
the voting lists indicate that if the amendment is adopted, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall lapse. it's on all the ballot papers. i have been very clear, i have spoken of votes on motions for resolutions followed by a vote. i'm sorry, mr. bresso, i've made myself clear, i speak italian, which is also your native language, and i think you should understand it better than others.
it has already been checked, so let us move on to the motion for a resolution. mr. gualtieri, please.
mr president, article 5 was put to the vote immediately after the adoption of the amendment on article 4(1), but many of us were actually voting contrary to what was on our voting list because we were not aware that we were voting on article 5. the screen was indicating something else. so we are simply asking you to repeat the vote on article 5 and to continue on. a lot of colleagues and i have voted as if it was for the previous text.
but the vote was taken. i don't know what all this tapping on the tables means. i was very clear about the amendment. please, mr reid.
wait a minute, i got it. i do not see the screen behind me and i have been told that there has been an error on the screen with regard to article 4 and article 5. so let's vote from article 5. we are voting on rule 5, the original text, by roll call.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, eight people in the world have the wealth of almost three billion people. these are oxfam figures, which of course can only give you chills. if we take these figures to our own europe, we find that little changes when we consider that almost 130 million european citizens live below the poverty line. we need to change our strategy, change our course and allow this titanic to reach a safe harbour. the economic policies pursued by the european union in recent years have devastated the social and employment rights, health and welfare of citizens, sold and sacrificed on the altar of stability of structural reforms which have not taken the slightest account of the consequences that were only on the most defenseless citizens. today, it is not only our duty to take note of this, but it must also require us legislators, the commission, the council and us members of the european parliament to reverse the trend. the only structural reforms that are useful to this europe which is at its own expense are those which guarantee the well-being of its citizens: adequate wages, guaranteed public health, acceptable working conditions, adequate wages, a guarantee for children living below the poverty line. until we take care of our children, we cannot be the ones to go and give lessons in democracy to other countries. it takes commitment, courage and immediate action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the oxfam figures mentioned several times in this house during this debate, and i am of course very concerned about them. but i have heard people talk about the increase in poverty and the increase in inequality as if they were natural disasters, as if there were no political responsibilities in having created this picture and this increase in inequality. i think that political responsibilities should be named, because they are also in this house, they are from the great coalition between the popular and socialists who have the majority in this parliament, who govern the commission, who govern in many member states. i think there are some solutions that are absolutely feasible: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we do not put the fiscal compact and the defence of profits before the defence of work, we could do the same in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, our economies, the world of work and our societies are changing. some changes, such as automation and digitalisation, may increase the skills premium for high—skilled workers and inequalities may increase, but the answer to these challenges is not to reject the benefits that technology can bring. instead we must strengthen the european workforce and step forward with more effective employment and social policy, with education, with skilling, with upskilling and with training systems. we must shape the future, and let us indeed continue to foster equal opportunities for under-represented groups, including in our own institutions. i have said it before and i’ll say it again: there is no trade—off between having more equality on one hand and having more growth on the other. well—designed reforms can – and should – achieve both. we too have said in our annual growth survey, in the euro area council recommendation and in some country—specific recommendations that promoting wage growth under certain conditions would be a good thing. as the economic recovery continues in europe, it is essential to make sure no one is left behind. combating inequalities is – and will remain – a priority for the commission, and we address it through a mix of policy levers: good jobs, fair taxation and adequate social protection. the commission cannot – and will not – do this alone. this requires a collective effort, first of all at european level, but also at national level and at local level. indeed, let us cherish and support grassroots social projects as we do with the european social fund. we have also to work together with social partners and other stakeholders. let us not forget that reducing inequality does not happen just like that. but i am confident that we can move further in the right direction. what we have to do everywhere – all of us – is to roll up our sleeves and get to work. thank you for this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, inequality is a cross—cutting issue so the council has already taken steps on the various aspects of this issue. this year, the council will continue to work on the implementation of the social pillar and together with the commission we will monitor the social situation in individual member states. as commissioner thyssen just said, the council, parliament and the commission all have a role to play. thank you once again for the opportunity to discuss this far—reaching topic. it has shown the wide—ranging nature of the challenges ahead of us. it also outlined possible ways towards building a union which is based on sustainable growth and which promotes economic prosperity, social development and equal opportunities for all.
in writing. as the latest data also show, poverty and social exclusion still affect almost a quarter of the european population, albeit to a different extent in different areas of the member states, and cause growing inequalities that particularly penalise young people from families without advanced education and women who continue to be disadvantaged in education, work and entrepreneurial activities. there are many causes of the excessive socioeconomic disparities between european citizens and appropriate measures must therefore be taken to eliminate them. i am thinking, for example, of measures to improve the education system, which must be open to all citizens and especially to children and young people from families at risk of marginalisation, and of measures to improve the training system, which must be more geared to the real needs of the labour market and aimed at the employment of the various professions in specific production areas. at the same time, however, appropriate measures must be taken to support and encourage investment by firms, especially in the most deprived areas, also in order to limit the relocation of activities to third countries.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ms hübner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms hübner, for her oral question. i welcome this opportunity to update parliament on the state of play on this important issue. let me recall that on 19 november 2015, the two rapporteurs, ms hübner and mr leinen, presented parliament’s proposal to the council at an informal committee of permanent representatives (coreper) meeting. since then, discussions took place in the relevant working party and five successive presidencies conducted intensive technical work on this file. in november 2016 and december 2017, coreper was involved and held an in—depth discussion on these very sensitive issues. after these two meetings the presidencies met with the two co—rapporteurs in order to give them a comprehensive overview and a clear state of play of the discussions. the first meeting took place in january 2017 and the last one in december 2017. minister maasikas for the estonian presidency came before the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) where he presented orally to the rapporteurs the general state of play on the discussions, as of november 2017, after a detailed mapping exercise. so contacts have been ongoing. today i am really happy to have the opportunity to give you some feedback. let me first stress that the member states are very much supportive of the general aim of the proposal to enhance public interest and voter turnout in the european parliament elections. they also share the view that there is a need for increased transparency and awareness—raising regarding the european character of the european parliament elections. but the member states also stressed the importance of respecting their constitutional and electoral traditions, as well as the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the proposal has indeed raised some concerns in this regard. member states have also been pointing to the autonomy of the political parties and the divergences in national systems in this respect. in their view, harmonisation should only be pursued in case of strict necessity and after a rigorous examination of the added value it will bring. on a more positive note, let me underline that after several months of discussions in the working party we were able to identify, in a preliminary way, a package of provisions on which an agreement in the council would seem currently the most likely. we need to pursue our work on this to explore the possibility of a compromise that might be acceptable for all. i can assure you that our presidency has put this file high on the agenda. let me also recall that this file will require unanimity in the council. finally, you should also know that we share the concerns about the deadlines for the approval of the amendments to the electoral law, in accordance with the member states’ constitutional requirements, and about adopting the necessary domestic measures in time for the 2019 elections. to sum up: despite these difficulties, we are determined to continue the hard work on this important file in the council. we are also happy to continue working closely with the european parliament in a very constructive spirit to try to overcome the difficulties and seek solutions that are acceptable to all.
i think it is right to recall the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, but we are talking about european electoral law. it must be sufficiently homogeneous to make it clear to the citizens of all european countries that they are voting for a single parliament and not for national elections. so i think that in particular some of the rules we are calling for to be updated, a series of rules to simplify clarification, but also those relating to membership of european political families, are indispensable because it makes clear the political battle that must be fought at european level, otherwise nobody knows what we are talking about. i do not agree with mr rangel. unfortunately, today's vote has increased the divisions still further and will increase them within the council, because we know that there are many countries on the transnational lists which make an important point of their political action. so i ask you to take into account that not only has this parliament been divided about halfway between us - taking into account that those who are leaving really had no right to speak - but the same will happen in the council. a reasonable composition must therefore be found.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was on 11 november 2015 that we as the european parliament voted on a proposal to amend the european electoral law, exercising the power of initiative that the treaty gives us in an exceptional way. we have been waiting for the decision of the council since then, which has been led by five different presidencies. in short, it seems that the council has forgotten the second paragraph of article 13 teu and we would therefore like to remind its members that it enshrines the duty of sincere cooperation between the institutions, a duty also reaffirmed by the interinstitutional agreement of april 2016. we therefore ask ourselves what major obstacles are blocking the co-legislator and when we can finally make progress on the dossier. i would remind you that in order to be applied to the 2019 elections, the reform should be finalized very quickly. in some member states, changes to electoral law must enter into force 12 months before the elections. we have proposed practical and sensible improvements. how long will the citizens have to wait before they finally see these things come to fruition?
i remember that the blue cards can be used as a speaker, no more of course.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, please let me respond to the remarks made by the honourable members of the european parliament. i would like to elaborate on several important topics and points. first of all, let me assure you that we all share the sense of urgency in view of the forthcoming ep elections in 2019. any changes to the electoral law would need to be ratified by the national parliaments. the presidency has consulted with member states regarding the deadlines for having the changes approved in accordance with their constitutional requirements and for adopting the necessary domestic measures in time for the 2019 european parliament elections. secondly, at the same time we need to be aware that the issue at hand goes to the heart of the constitutional electoral traditions and the organisation of the political life in member states, including the respective electoral laws and freedom of association. thirdly, as foreseen in the leaders agenda, the european council will have an informal meeting on institutional issues on 23 february. the agenda foresees the ep composition, transnational lists and appointments, including spitzenkandidaten. this is part of the new method proposed by president tusk in october 2017, allowing a frank, open and constructive discussion. for this reason, it is very important not to prejudge the forthcoming leaders discussions. fourthly, as regards our concrete steps and timetable, the presidency has considered all available options. the council has dedicated in-depth attention to the parliament’s proposal and several successive presidencies have been engaged, as you have already mentioned. these are not issues on which it is easy to find a compromise, and i recall that the treaty requires unanimity. while member states share the objective of increasing the interest of the voters and the european character of the elections, these realities also need to be taken into account. therefore, we need to consider that we have two options: either focus our efforts on the topic with respect to which agreement seems most likely, or face the risk of not having any result for the forthcoming ep elections. taking into consideration the willingness to achieve progress, the presidency intends to continue with discussions focusing on the least controversial provisions. we will reflect on any further next steps as soon as we have a full view of the situation. the presidency will continue to seek consensus wherever possible. to conclude, let me reaffirm the council’s commitment to engage with the european parliament. i totally agree that this is a question of cooperation. we remain available to exchange on our respective positions and to look for common solutions.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the threats to the rule of law posed by the reform of the judiciary system in romania (2018/2512 ((rsp)).
we asked for the council to be present in the chamber and the council sent its representative, and that is enough for us to be able to hold the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, madam commissioner, you have invited the presidency to intervene in this debate. first, let me say that common values such as democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. each member state must therefore respect, protect and promote them. let me assure you that the rule of law and the separation of powers have always been at the heart of the council’s attention. we believe that dialogue and cooperation are necessary to ensure the best standards and conditions for our citizens in all our member states. the council addressed the situation in romania in its conclusions on the cooperation and verification mechanism adopted on 12 december 2017. the council welcomed the fact that romania has taken a number of positive steps and encouraged the country to renew momentum on the reforms, in particular those related to the independence of the judiciary and to the fight against corruption at all levels. the council reiterated the importance for romania to focus on further consolidating progress and to fully address the concerns and all the recommendations set out by the commission in its report on progress achieved under the cooperation and verification mechanism. we hope that the ongoing communication between the romanian authorities and the commission will continue to prove efficient in assisting romania to remedy some shortcomings.
member of the commission. – mr president, the discussion in romania over the last year about its justice laws has led to concerns being expressed by a wide range of stakeholders, both inside and outside the country, across the eu and beyond. romanian citizens have taken to the streets to state their opposition to the proposed changes to romanian law. they are concerned that this may undermine the long—standing efforts in the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary. the commission has made no secret of the fact that it shares these concerns. so too does the council of europe’s anti—corruption watchdog, the group of states against corruption, which for the first time has decided to launch its own inquiry – with a report due in march. the independence of the romanian judiciary and its capacity to fight corruption are directly relevant to the progress made under the cooperation and verification mechanism, which, as you know, was set up in 2007 to assist romania and bulgaria in the fields of judicial reform and corruption and (for bulgaria) the fight against organised crime. after ten years of continued efforts, romania has one of the best judiciaries in the region. back in january 2017, the commission proposed a limited set of remaining recommendations which, if implemented fully and provided that there is no backtracking, would bring romania out of the cooperation and verification mechanism. one of the recommendations called on the romanian leadership to ensure a consensual legislative process, to finalise reforms of the justice laws and the criminal codes, and also to respect judicial independence and court decisions. on 15 november 2017, in our latest cooperation and verification mechanism report, the commission voiced concerns on the process and the content of the draft justice laws. as the debate on justice laws was evolving in the course of 2017, the superior council of the magistracy – the constitutional guarantor of the independence of the judiciary – continued to voice concerns and issued a negative opinion citing detrimental impacts on judicial independence and on the effective functioning of the judicial system. these concerns need to be taken seriously in the legislative process. therefore the question we put to the romanian authorities in the november report remains valid, namely whether the process would take into account the legitimate interests of the judiciary and respect judicial independence. unfortunately, we have continued to see open criticism of the judiciary and defiance of judicial decisions or integrity rules, which do not inspire a feeling of confidence in the process. events since have done nothing to address these concerns. on 21 december 2017, the parliament adopted amendments to the justice laws in a fast—track procedure and the laws were immediately challenged in the constitutional court through three referrals. the constitutional court proceedings are ongoing but, in its first hearings, it declared the unconstitutionality of some of the provisions. these are issues to be looked at carefully in relation to judicial independence and on which there are european standards. the council of europe’s principle is that you cannot reform the judicial system against the judiciary. this common sense advice underpins the commission’s recommendation to the romanian authorities that they consult the venice commission before the justice laws are promulgated. the commission considers that it is still possible for the justice laws to be improved and become good laws which will strengthen the independence and professionalisation of the romanian judicial system to serve all romanian citizens. this is a crucial moment, given that the first two draft laws are back in the romanian parliament following the rulings of the constitutional court. the debate on how to address the concerns expressed by the constitutional court should be used as an opportunity to have a good, frank dialogue and build a better shared understanding and trust among all parties concerned. therefore, i reiterate the call made by president juncker and first vice—president timmermans to the romanian parliament to rethink the course of actions proposed, to open up debate in line with the commission’s recommendations, to build consensus on the way forward, to safeguard the independence of the judicial system and further step up the fight against corruption. the president of romania also has a key role in the process and, from his meeting with the college last week, i know he takes that very seriously. the commission stands ready to continue its ongoing dialogue with the romanian authorities and will contribute as best it can to help ensure that this process is taken forward constructively and in a way that builds trust. we will look thoroughly at the final amendments to the justice law, the criminal codes and laws on conflicts of interest and corruption. as always, when dealing with these and similar matters, the commission will remain objective, facts—based and law—based, politically colour—blind and clinical in our approach. romania and romanians have been running a marathon. the finish line is in sight. to step backwards now would be a major disappointment to romania’s many friends, but most of all to romanian citizens. the speed with which romania will reach the finish line is up to romania, but the commission stands by to help romania get there.
we now open the debate by first hearing the views of the various political groups. i warn you that at this stage of the declarations by the political groups we will not accept a blue card.
we have heard the views of the political groups. now we can use the blue cards, of course a speaker card.
thank you, victor. i am sorry, i do not want to take the floor, but i have to do so now, because if one has one minute and speaks two, it means that the whole debate is doubled in time. everyone has abused time, everyone, including my friend marinescu. the problem is that it is everyone's responsibility to be in the time allotted to him, that is the responsibility. it is not my responsibility to take the floor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in informally thanking mrs gardiazabal rubial for the great work she has done and the commitment she has shown, as do vice-president katainen and the eib. it is an important document that we are voting on tomorrow, because we are living in an era in which every day is spent accusing europe of doing nothing, of not being able to tackle the problems, of not knowing how to solve the problems at their root. i believe that what we will be voting on tomorrow, especially on a very important and very sensitive subject such as migration, which is very sensitive for my country, will set a totally different example. some of these proposals also come from the italian government, which has been promoting over the years the strengthening of measures to eliminate the root causes of immigration, and so this is the direction we are taking. so not just humanitarian aid, but aid for genuine development, growth and progress in countries. i believe, and i am pleased to say, as many other technical aspects have already been touched upon, that this is a document which is strongly based on the values of the european union. the values of solidarity and cooperation, of course, as is natural and as is obvious for what is at stake, but also the values which are fundamental to us: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope, of course, and i congratulate my colleague mrs gardiazabal rubial, that this document will be adopted by a very large majority tomorrow, because it is in the spirit of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the rapporteur, mrs gardiazabal rubial. our discussion is part of the european union's ambitious plan for external investment in relation to partnership with third countries. this topic is one of the pillars of the european agenda on migration. we are also dealing here with budgetary matters linked to financial instruments for the implementation of the policies we define. my contribution is intended to support the need to provide these guarantees, so as to enable the eib to widen the scope for more effective participation by the economic and social sectors in the implementation of the policies established in the logic of subsidiarity. the achievement of the sustainable development goals requires the creation of conditions for greater synergy between the different actors. the fight against poverty and the root causes of migration will be effective if the eib's financial instruments are flexible and guaranteed. this theme is reminiscent of the multiplication of trust funds towards the acp countries, particularly africa. in this context too, a budgetary guarantee and cover for cooperation policies will have to be established. we also call for the consistency of our policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against irregular immigration goes beyond programmes and is pursued above all through concrete action to remove the root causes of the phenomenon of migration. achieving inclusive and sustainable growth and job creation remain key challenges for developing countries. the investment climate and the overall political environment in the european union's neighbourhood and in africa are not always favourable to private sector investment. the broadening of the objectives and guarantees provided by the eib for european external action will enable the european union to set a good example in developing more effective partnerships with partner countries and in implementing international commitments on financing for development. grants have been and remain essential, but a long-term strategy required going beyond traditional development assistance, through innovative financial instruments and guarantees to support investment, trade, the mobilisation of national resources and good governance, and multiplying the impact on the ground of the benefits of european external action.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the annual report on the financial activities of the european investment bank (a8-0013/2018).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank president hoyer for his presentation and for being here today to report on the activities of the european investment bank, which, i recall, is the largest public bank in the world in terms of volume. it is essential, however, that there should be democratic control over all this money. it is therefore important that you respect the recommendations made by the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, on which i am rapporteur for the report on the eib, in order to ensure transparency and that there is always proper compliance by the evaluation carried out by the european investment bank. a particular point must be made about the issues related to projects which must have an independent ex ante and ex post evaluation, precisely to assess whether there is really an additionality or an added value in all the projects you finance, especially on major infrastructure works. there is a fundamental problem that has been raised in italy about the trans adriatic pipeline project, which is a project that is strongly supported by the political community, and on which there are strong doubts that compliance has been respected, also because it is a project that passes through highly corrupt territories where subcontracting and contracts could create major problems. in addition, there are the problems of the territories which are the subject of these very invasive works; so the territories should be respected and the policy should act and the compliance should be respected. so, apart from these considerations, i am convinced that the european investment bank is doing a good job in some cases, but where politics influences projects there is a risk that too often we will end up with useless projects, still linked to fossil fuels, and that the objectives of this parliament and the european union will not be met in terms of combating co2 emissions and in terms of the europe 2020 objectives. i have only two minutes, so i shall confine myself to this, but there will be many other things which we will mention in the report of the committee on budgetary control, and i would ask the president and the entire eib to take care of them and to respect what will be written in these reports.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have personally listened to the speeches of president hoyer, commissioner katainen, the rapporteurs and my colleagues and i do not share all this optimism, the optimism in the report and the optimism expressed in the speeches. the eib is one of the european union's most powerful economic support instruments and the world's largest publicly owned bank. this is more than eur 80 billion in loans granted each year. looking at the state of the european union and the state of the economies of the european union, i believe that much more can be done in terms of the european investment bank's support for the real economy. the first issue that concerns me is the destination of the eib's investments and loans and the countries to which they are destined. today, the subject of turkey is again on the agenda. turkey is a country which has benefited and continues to benefit from a huge amount of eib loans, but unfortunately - and the european institutions are also becoming aware of this - the turkish regime is not compatible with what are called the values of democracy, transparency and respect which are inherent in the european union. the numbers in turkey should make you think. since 2000, the eib has provided some eur 30 billion in loans to the country, and the country remains one of the largest beneficiaries of eib money and loans, well above some countries in the european union. so a first key point is to redirect credit to countries in difficulty and to the internal market. the role of the eib must be to support, especially in a time of crisis, domestic demand which has collapsed and domestic investment. another very important issue is the so-called innovative tools that we have seen in the last couple of years. i am talking about the efsi and the european fund for sustainable development. we need more transparency here too, we need better work on the concept and the criterion of additionality, and these instruments must also be more realistic in the support they provide. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. it is certainly a right of the united kingdom and the citizens of the united kingdom to get back what they are owed, in terms of both assets and money, from the european union once brexit takes effect. the contribution of the united kingdom as a major shareholder of the eib will obviously have to be taken into account when a final brexit agreement is reached. i imagine that the eib will have an impact in its activities, of course, in the absence of a major contributor such as the united kingdom. it's up to the managers to figure out how to make things right. but it is right that the citizens of the united kingdom should also get their due in terms of assets and money from the eib.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the honourable member for her report, which in my view presents certain positive aspects, such as the importance of the objectives of the paris climate agreement, the potential of the eib to improve the economic situation in the neighbourhood and, above all, the emphasis on mechanisms to avoid financing companies that commit tax fraud. but there are some things that are not convincing, and i would refer in particular to two aspects. first, there is a worrying lack of transparency, and it is worth noting here that the eib does not always guarantee full access to the data relating to the projects financed. secondly, the eib's decision to finance infrastructure projects with a high environmental impact and doubtful additionality, such as the tap, violates a principle, among others, that of precaution, which we hold dear. such funding for environmentally damaging projects with disastrous social and economic effects on local communities should be stopped immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has weakened growth in the european union, leading to a drop in investment that has reached alarming levels in the countries most affected by the crisis. i welcome with confidence the words of eib president hoyer when he states his willingness to provide real support for growth and job creation, pursuing the objectives of innovation, greater economic and social cohesion and environmental protection. in relation to environmental policies, i believe that the eib should make greater use of green bonds, a financial instrument that has been in use for a few years and which experienced a real boom in 2016. this could be one of the keys to solving many problems, such as those of areas with high environmental pressure, such as tierra de fuegos, which would require investment in the remediation of contaminated areas, just as has already been done with the polluted land in belgium and the netherlands. investing in the environment in innovative ways is essential to promote the economic and social growth of the territories in practice.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the reduction of spaces for civil society (2017/2529(rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a state which restricts the political space in which civil society organisations operate is not a state governed by the rule of law. a state which does not recognise this living force within its society, which seeks to limit its scope of action, which imposes financial constraints and burdens and which represses activists deserves our utmost condemnation. the behaviour of certain states, and i am speaking of hungary, is reprehensible, which by means of subtle laws criminalize solidarity with refugees, migrants and marginalised groups, thus striking at the heart of the action taken by civil society in providing those social services which the state in question is incapable of providing. that is why i support the creation of a european democracy fund. we are talking about rights and democracy, good governance and transparency. i therefore call on the commission to make its voice heard more strongly in defence of these principles and to take prompt action against laws and practices that are restrictive towards civil society organisations and their members well before they are adopted.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, support for women defenders of human rights is a priority for our external action on human rights. human rights defenders, both men and women, are our natural and indispensable allies in the promotion of human rights and democracy. we know that many of them are constantly risking their life and their freedom, but women defenders are suffering very specific threats and obstacles on account of their gender as much as their fight for human rights. yet women defenders play an increasingly prominent role in many partner countries. they are, of course, particularly active in advocating for progress on gender equality. however, it is important to recall that women defenders are not working exclusively on gender equality. they also make an essential contribution in promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. women defenders are targeted, in particular, when they challenge traditional patterns and perceptions of gender roles and other social stereotypes. we have seen attacks against women defenders working on sexual and reproductive health and rights, promoting gender equality in schools or advocating for the rights of women victims of sexual and gender-based violence, including domestic violence, and the most harmful practices. our external action has always focused strongly on the protection of women’s rights and of women defenders. let me just mention, inter alia, the foreign affairs council conclusions of june 2014. they clearly identify women defenders of human rights as a priority and confirm the eu’s commitment to improving its support. the commitment is turning into practice on a daily basis and, in recent times, we have stepped up our engagement in order to react to growing threats against women defenders. i would like to mention, in particular, our mechanism to protect defenders. this is a unique mechanism that can be used to provide targeted assistance to human rights defenders. in 2017, more than 200 women defenders were supported by this mechanism. our support measures include not only funding to cover attorney fees and physical protection but also, in the most serious cases, temporary relocation to a safer destination. another example of such targeted financial support is the emergency grants fund for human rights defenders at risk, provided by the european instrument for democracy and human rights. our contacts with human rights defenders on the ground have also become more constant. the embassies of eu member states and eu delegations are at the forefront of this work. staff in eu delegations around the world regularly meet with women defenders and consult with them both on human rights and on the conditions of their daily work. furthermore, our bilateral dialogues with partner countries are a powerful tool for raising women’s rights issues and for exchanges on individual cases involving women defenders of human rights. the eu strongly encourages governments to engage with women defenders and ensure their active, free and meaningful participation. gender equality and women’s empowerment, including support for women defenders, are identified among the main priorities in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy. the plan recognises and supports the critical role of human rights defenders and women’s organisations in relation to achieving fair and inclusive societies. when women, including young women, are empowered the benefits are perceived by their entire community. when they have access to good education and good jobs, social and economic inequality is easier to overcome. when women are recognised as full and equal citizens the whole society is more stable and democracies get stronger.our work for women and women defenders is for them and it is for all of us, women and men alike.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. when women do it, simply because they are women, as has been said, this fact greatly increases the risk factor. so the institutions, european policy, must continue to increase the support they already give, it has been said, in the field of external policy on human rights, particularly now, because we are now negotiating the new multiannual financial framework. but i think we need to pay even more attention when we talk about women, as we are saying, because women continue to suffer additional threats, they continue to suffer additional humiliation to even get to physical attacks, to rape, precisely because they symbolize, if you think about it for a moment, everything that oppressive dictators do not want. they represent independence, freedom, autonomy, and these women are found in every corner of our planet. from guatemala, where maria magdalena cuc choc was arrested a few days ago, to mexico, where graciela rodríguez is looking for missing people, to asia, africa and even europe. in short, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, we can and must do more to protect these women and to protect human rights activists.
i would like to thank the honourable members for this oral question, which i felt was necessary and which i think is worth discussing in parliament. i have personally been involved in the issue of the recognition of women's rights as human rights in the reports i have been rapporteur on, in the report on human rights as women's rights in trade treaties and also on women's rights in international trade. i think that the discussion we are having today is missing an important piece, which is the denial of human rights and women's rights, the imprisonment to which so many activists are forced, what is happening in afrin: the denial of human rights advocated by many women activists by the erdogan regime. i think the european union should do more about this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, like my predecessors, i am deeply concerned about the increasing number of attacks on representatives of human rights organisations around the world, particularly against women, activists who are fighting against gender stereotypes, sometimes defying social norms and patriarchal values to defend rights and democracy, and who therefore face discrimination and intimidation and threats of a truly incredible kind, such as rape, acid attacks, violence against children or sexual defamation campaigns. often these women are the victims of outright smear campaigns, as in el salvador where reproductive rights activists have been accused by the press of being unpatriotic traitors who discredit the country. it is therefore necessary that the european commission, in the context of the review of the european instrument for democracy and human rights, invests effort and resources in supporting women who are fighting for the defence of human rights all over the world.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from this clock, it is now 9.15. the undersigned, and i think all european citizens, starting with the italian citizens, would expect an important chamber like the european parliament to be here to speak, for example, about the five million poor italians, about the four million unemployed italians, about the dramatic problem of this continuing criminal invasion of clandestinity. we would expect to talk about the real problems of the country, but instead in a crazy, crazy, even ridiculous way we are here to talk about whether or not to abolish the curfew. so i am making a proposal to the european parliament, i am making a proposal to my colleagues, i am proposing that the hands of the clock be moved back an hour. that would save the european citizens and the italian citizens eur 250 000 which we would have to return for a pointless discussion we are having at the moment. i really hope that this parliament will be able to talk about important issues, about work, about the continuing invasion of the underground, about the issues that people are expecting today. america is talking about taxes, it's talking about jobs, it's talking about defending the border. we are here, in a mad manner, to discuss a subject which is useless for the interests of the european citizens and the interests of the italian citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, scientific studies on the european union's provisions on daylight saving time have not reached any definitive conclusions but have reportedly shown that there are adverse effects on human and animal health and road safety. various citizens' initiatives have highlighted the concerns regarding the current half-yearly time change. the fact that the european citizens are disturbed twice a year would therefore seem to be harmful. however, the debate on the economic benefits also remains open. i do not think the research is exhaustive and i am not convinced by the approach of some of the studies. i would also not like to see us falling foul of the union's climate and energy policies. in the light of the conflicting results, i believe that a legislative body such as the european parliament should be able to express itself only on the basis of certain knowledge. the commission must carry out a thorough evaluation of the directive in all member states and not just some of them, and only afterwards, if necessary, make a proposal for revision based on the results obtained.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing a country which has gone beyond all limits in its violation of human rights, to the point where we can no longer speak of the rule of law. since el-sisi came to power, the egyptian government has not only resumed the execution of death sentences, which was not the case under previous governments, but has also begun to execute them. as if that were not enough, in recent months this phenomenon has been growing at a dizzying rate. this is only the gravest symptom of the vicious escalation of violence and the total collapse of the values of the rule of law that we are witnessing in egypt. it is in this context that my compatriot, giulio regeni, was kidnapped, tortured and brutally murdered. a citizen of our own who we cannot defend even in death, because we are too weak to do so or because perhaps the economic interests of our partnership with egypt are too strong. if the egyptian authorities allowed this to be done to a researcher, knowing that they would have the spotlight of the west on them, i cannot even imagine the sad fate that the helpless egyptian citizens face on a daily basis and in the total care of a despot. what other human rights, what other international norms must egypt violate before the european union and its member states start doing something beyond outrage and debate? why is the high representative for human rights softening his tone on what is happening in egypt? our role as guarantors of human rights and the rule of law must be translated into action, that is why we are here.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the framework of the 2017-2020 partnership with the european union, egypt had committed itself to promoting democracy, fundamental freedoms and human rights, in line with its constitution and international standards. this commitment has not been kept and is demonstrated by the numerous death sentences and executions, more than 20 in the last month, which have led to the death of citizens, first subjected to torture and inhuman treatment and executed without prior notification and with sham trials before military courts. during the presidency of el-sisi, this tragic bulletin has been accelerated to an unprecedented degree. the european union has repeatedly reiterated its condemnation of the death penalty and it is clear that it is not possible to build a solid partnership with this country in the light of what is happening unless, on the altar of realpolitik, we disregard human rights and thus become morally co-responsible for these atrocities. it is clear that a clear and specific commitment to change is needed from egypt and its president, without which a new chapter in this partnership cannot be opened. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize once again the repeated behaviour of this regime. we are still waiting for truth and justice for giulio regeni, who was murdered two years ago in cairo. this is another measure of the lack of credibility of the current egyptian ruling class.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it was on 26 december 2017 that 15 men accused of terrorism were sent to the gallows by order of an egyptian military court. on that day, egypt's el-sisi set a new record for the highest number of summary executions in a single day since 1953. the general's rise to power has left the condemned as lifeless bodies, covered with burns, wounds and mutilations, clear signs of horrifying, brutal and unacceptable torture. the summary killings are intertwined with the forced disappearances of journalists, political opponents and simple intellectuals, just like our giulio regeni, whose death is still shrouded in a chilling silence. the military's murderous gangs have no mercy even for innocent children, like yasser and hamza, aged 13 and 15, who were abducted from their homes and found dead a few days later on a street in their village. the weapons they use are also european weapons. trade and realpolitik are the reasons for the complicit silence of our countries? is this the cooperation for security and stability we want with egypt? i say no! we must raise our voices, demand an arms embargo and continue to demand truth and justice for giulio regeni and all the innocent victims of this brutal regime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to adopt a joint resolution today with clear contents. in the third millennium, no state in the world can still tolerate torture, summary executions and the disregard of human rights. the european union is egypt's main economic partner, but we cannot turn a blind eye to cruel and inhumane treatment. we are talking about giulio regeni, a young researcher who was brutally tortured and then killed in egypt, and who was the son of this europe founded on rights and freedoms that have been trampled underfoot. perhaps some hoped that after a short time, all would be forgotten. but as a european parliament we will not be silent and we will always and strongly call for clarity on this murder. two years later, the egyptian authorities have yet to give a clear answer, which must be given to julius' family, friends and 500 million european citizens. otherwise we cannot think that egypt is still a good partner and a safe destination to go to.
madam president, it is sad that nowadays we are still witnessing not just slavery but its most heinous and awful form, child slavery. in haiti poor parents from rural areas send their children away under the illusion that they will be educated and well kept and will have brighter opportunities in life. restaveks are, in fact, exploited physically and verbally abused, whipped, humiliated and sometimes sexually exploited. moreover, children live in precarious conditions of health and nourishment. often prevented from going to school, they are forced to work 18—20 hours per day. every time a restavek implores to be sent back home, he or she is likely to receive a beating in return. at the end of this nightmare these undefended children will end up on the street. the two major factors that perpetuate the restavek system are widespread poverty and a social acceptance of the practice. therefore, i wish to invite the european union and the member states to increase their financial support to the haitian government on condition that it complies with the obligation to respect the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the disturbing panorama of human rights violations there is a specific category, which is perhaps the most insidious and disturbing of all, and i am referring to violations affecting the lives of children. they are certainly the worst of all, for they have a devastating impact on the person the child will become, thus condemning not only his present but also his future and thus the future of the entire country in which they occur. in haiti, the term restavek is used to describe the condition of a child who is born into a poor family and is literally sold to a different family, often in the city. this condition, which affects as many as 40,000 haitian children, is becoming a form of modern slavery. 95% of these child slaves are subjected to physical and psychological abuse and 25% of girls are sexually abused before the age of 18, all in the corrupt silence of the ruling class. we must put an end to this abhorrent practice. the haitian authorities must ratify and respect the un convention on the rights of the child and the european union must provide maximum support to the very poor caribbean island, supporting the fight against poverty and for literacy. a society's moral sense is measured by what it does for its children.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs gardiazabal rubial on the annual report of the european investment bank has the merit of being comprehensive. i agree in principle with the eib's potential to improve the economic situation within the european union, and i am referring to the soft loans it provides to small and mediumsized enterprises, to its potential in our neighbourhood. i have already pointed out in the committee on regional development the problems of the eib's high-risk operations, the so-called special operations. in essence, part of our budget guarantees, by means of financial engineering, the eib's riskiest operations, protecting private investors. once again, privatization of profits and publicity of losses in the midst of the crisis. i recognize that great importance is attached to mechanisms to avoid financing to companies that commit tax fraud, but i would have liked the report to address more boldly the lack of transparency regarding access to data on projects financed by the eib. finally, we tabled a number of amendments condemning the involvement of the eib in the financing of large infrastructure projects with a high environmental impact, such as tap. i would like to stress here, mr president, that our position is based on the same principles that the eib is proud of, but which it then denies. the tap project is not only in breach of the precautionary principle, which everyone in this house seems to share only in words, but above all of the bank's aspirations, which i would remind you are to be socially and environmentally responsible investments. i do not see the creation of another monstrous building with disastrous environmental and social impacts as a choice, let alone a responsible investment. for this reason, we voted to abstain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely positive that the european parliament has expressed its concern about the deterioration of human rights in turkey, to the detriment of academics, journalists and the opposition. i have personally seen that in ankara, where i went in december to try to attend the trial of the two co-chairs of the hdp, the international delegation was prevented from attending the trials, despite the seriousness of this denial. i would add that the resolution is not enough. we must demand that the pkk be removed from the list of terrorist organisations and we must stand in solidarity with rojava, with the kurdish women, and we must condemn in the strongest terms, without reservation, what the turkish government is doing in afrin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution the european parliament not only reaffirms its support for the work of unrwa, but also reaffirms the principles of international law, first and foremost the status of jerusalem. rights blatantly violated and trampled on by us president trump with his unilateral decision to recognize jerusalem as israel's capital in violation of un resolutions. unrwa exists not because the palestinians want it to exist, it exists because there are still palestinian refugees, driven from their homes and their lands, who after decades remain refugees. it exists because israel continues to occupy territory that is not its own and the netanyahu government has effectively boycotted what little was left of the peace process. it is therefore good that parliament should reiterate its support for unrwa, but that is not enough. it is not enough when unrwa-funded schools are boycotted, they are bombed by israel. as the european union we have an association agreement with israel which includes a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations. it's time to make it count.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european investment bank is allocating 1.5 billion for the trans adriatic pipeline, or tap. a useless, harmful project that goes against the principles, the standards that the european union professes. the european union itself, even through the structural funds, has financed this work. the citizens have been denouncing this for years, but europe has been blind to it. europe is not only blind, it is complicit. it is complicit in a fraud against the citizens, because tap costs tens of billions and is of no use to the european union, it is of no use to italy. building tap is not going to help the economy, get out of the crisis. tap has a useful life of at least 30 years and, given the energy transition underway, will we still need this much gas in 10 or 20 years? the data says no, it tells us that the pipeline is to emancipating the european union and italy from supplies from other countries, some of them high-risk countries like libya. it is a pity that the tap, which will land in puglia, will also pass through countries that could give some concern: the eu has already made progress in this area. as regards azerbaijan, have we forgotten the investigation into what happened at the council of europe with the buying and selling of votes to stop the motion of condemnation of azerbaijan, which would have prevented eib financing? have we forgotten the journalistic investigation that reveals a tangle of mafia-smelling managers, suitcases of cash, russian oligarchs, italian businessmen with political connections, anonymous safes with off-shore plates? does all this not deserve the slightest attention from brussels? the truth is that building tap is a mega deal, and investment funds, banks and insurance companies are ready to jump in, as long as the risks are covered by governments, the european commission or financial institutions like the eib, that is, taxpayer money. tap is also environmentally unsustainable. i would remind the commission that the posidonia meadows are nurseries for species of commercial interest, are essential for the protection of the marine and coastal environment and for small-scale fishing. i would remind you that in the last 50 years, posidonia has experienced a 10% decline due, among other things, to the alteration of the sedimentary regime, the laying of submarine cables and gas pipelines. it is no coincidence that the port is between two sic areas. on the one hand, the european union is spending resources through life projects to protect our sea, and on the other hand, it is lending its support to eco-monsters like tap that are destroying the marine environment. it is no coincidence that, as i have written to the commissioner, and i thank him for his presence, the italian minister for the environment has taken over the verification of compliance with eleven requirements for the construction of the gas pipeline, taking it away from local authorities, including the region. therefore, we ask whether this decision violates directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. the tap eia was issued on the basis of a feasibility study and not an executive project. ministerial authorisations were granted in exchange for tap's self-certifications, sometimes partial and modified in the process. kind of like the efsa studies on glyphosate, just to give you an idea. is the tap safe? remember the accident in austria? the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we want clear answers from the european union on this too. tap also violates citizens' rights and the rule of law. the tap shipyard in melendugno is a wild west, where the law of the strongest prevails, to the detriment of the rights of citizens and public authorities. even the city police had to wait almost an hour before they could enter the construction site, where they only wanted to verify the regularity and legitimacy of the work in progress. we are facing the militarization of san foca. peaceful protests by citizens and neighbouring municipalities were silenced by the police. in conclusion, we ask brussels to carry out an assessment study on the environmental, economic and social consequences of the gas pipeline, to give its opinion on the protests of the inhabitants of melendugno and the municipalities concerned, because the rule of law must be respected, because in the european union we want, the law of multinationals cannot apply at the expense of the rights of citizens, because our sea must be respected, because tap must be stopped.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. i think that the direct knowledge we have of the area we are talking about, being both from apulia, helps us in understanding what is happening and in sharing the evaluation of the tap project. the tap project, it was said, is part of the southern gas corridor, the so-called southern gas pipeline, which is supposed to carry 3,500 kilometres of gas from azerbaijan to italy. the total cost of the project is estimated at $45 billion, with the aim of reducing energy dependence on russia. that is what the commissioner was reminding us of a moment ago. what the commissioner did not remind us of, or failed to remind us of, is that these resources will be thrown first and foremost at the feet of companies that are part of the tanap consortium, which are involved in corruption, so much so that the press investigations call tap the "mafiodotto". the european investment bank recently granted a public loan of eur 1.5 billion, one of the largest in history. it is a scandal on which we will not fail to question the commission further. a serious environmental impact assessment of the work is lacking. there is no assessment of emissions and losses, there is no assessment of the compatibility of the work with the purposes enshrined in cop23. a little over two hours ago we voted a resolution by the european parliament which shows the concern about human rights in turkey. we are exactly going to do business with the erdogan government, not to mention the situation in azerbaijan. but i would like to mention here some european citizens, who are the citizens of apulia, whose opinion does not seem to count in the determination of this decision. i do not know whether the commissioner has been to melendugno, to san foca, one of the most beautiful coastal areas of apulia and the adriatic sea. i do not know whether he has seen the olive trees cut down for the construction of tap, or for the mismanagement of the xylella issue. i don't know if you know about a militarized land, complaints, police charges against citizens who were protesting against tap. i do not know whether you are aware of the total lack of involvement of the local population and the puglia region. i don't know if you know that the documents authorizing the construction are not yet visible, that they are hidden. i hope that the commissioner will respond to all this and that he will realise that tap must be stopped. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am against, totally against this project and i reiterate that there has been no consultation of the local population and no involvement of the puglia region. i believe that this has to do not only with the environmental risks of the tap project, but also with the cancellation of a democratic decision on the implementation of that project and the cancellation of the rule of law that follows the militarization of that shipyard.
i'm asking for a blue card. we talk about decarbonisation, but there's a fundamental difficulty in understanding that decarbonisation is not about eliminating coal, but carbon, which also means gas, which means fossil fuels, and instead of getting rid of our dependence on fossil fuels, we continue to finance them. a project that will be useless in 30 years. i remember turkey just signed an agreement and i ask the commissioner if it is true with gazprom, and so the gas will continue to arrive ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i'm asking for a blue card. mr kelly, i will not repeat what i said earlier in the debate. i've already explained why i don't agree with what you just said. i 'm just asking you: do you think that a project with that kind of environmental impact could be built against the will of the citizens who live in that area? against the will of the puglia region, which local authority is insisting on that territory? do you think that the will of those citizens and those european citizens can be completely ignored?
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 8 february 2018.
as president of the european parliament, as a citizen and as a journalist, i express my deepest indignation and firm condemnation of the murder of the slovak journalist ján kuciak and his partner martina kušnírová, which took place near bratislava. it is a new, unacceptable attack on the freedom of the press, which is a founding value of our democracy. this murder comes just months after the tragic murder of maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia. ján kuciak practised his profession with passion and courage. during his brief but promising career, he was leading investigations into suspicious financing and tax evasion cases. he was determined to find the truth, without looking anyone in the face. police have stated that he was almost certainly killed to stop their investigation. on behalf of parliament, i would like to say emphatically that we all have a duty to continue its fight for the truth. it is unacceptable today that a journalist in the european union should be killed for doing his job. how can we condemn those who intimidate and imprison journalists everywhere in the world if we cannot guarantee freedom of the press and the ability of european journalists to do their work safely? i am counting on the slovak authorities to do everything possible to get to the truth, including by calling for international police cooperation. on behalf of the european parliament, i can assure you that, as with daphne caruana galizia, we will not stop raising our voices and will continue to ensure that all those responsible are brought to justice. as this happened to commemorate daphne caruana galizia, i ask you to join me in a minute of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) unfortunately, the last week has been filled with bad news. the terrorist group boko haram has again attacked a school in north east nigeria, and as a result of this attack over a hundred girls have disappeared. it is a kidnapping that brings to mind the tragic memory of the schoolgirls kidnapped in chibok in 2014. parliament strongly condemned the attack and called for the release of the girls. every child should be guaranteed the right to go to school in a safe and free environment. president buhari has called it a national disaster, but i'm not afraid to call it a global humanitarian disaster. this tragic event should encourage us to engage more concretely with our african partners in the fight against terrorism, politically, financially and militarily. i must also inform you of an incident involving our colleague ska keller, which took place in bulgaria a few weeks ago. mr keller was the subject of a statement by minister simeonov calling for his expulsion from the country because of his participation in a demonstration against the construction of infrastructure in the pirin national park in bulgaria. as soon as i was informed of this, i immediately contacted the bulgarian government and received assurances that simeonov's statements did not represent the government's position. the accident was solved. i would like to stress that freedom of expression is a fundamental right for every citizen of the european union, and particularly for those who, like mr keller, are elected by the people and represent the people. this freedom is the foundation of our democracy and includes the right to dissent, to demonstrate and even to protest. i thank the bulgarian government for its immediate dissociation from these statements and i hope that such incidents will not be repeated in the future.
mr president, i thank you for bringing the story of the boko haram girls to this house. i would like to make another appeal to this house: fighting the terror. we must do this by investing more in education and above all in education. this parliament has been very active in the fight against boko haram, against the abduction of girls. i insist that this appeal not be left in the dust. we invest in terrorism, with more education and education.
the debate on the next mff is about to begin, so i think parliament will also have a say in all the important initiatives we have to take on the african continent.
parliament has always made its voice heard loud and clear in defence of the independence of cyprus and in upholding the rule of law at all times and in all circumstances, including in a candidate country such as turkey. i have personally intervened and called the president of the republic of cyprus to express my solidarity.
we will have to ask the european commission, which is already working on a strategy for immigration, and i believe that in the next mff there will also be a commitment on the part of all of us to tackle the issue of immigration - legal, illegal, refugees - and also a particular focus on africa.
we are not speaking about the agenda.
who is to speak on the minutes? not on the agenda, but on the minutes of the february 8th meeting. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
i would remind you that tomorrow, thursday 1 march, we will be electing a new vice-president of the european parliament to replace mr czarnecki. i got two nominations: the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the rules of procedure, including one by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, proposed by the ecr group, and one by mr indrek tarand, proposed by a number of members at least equal to the low threshold. following the appointment of mr hannu takkula as a member of the european court of auditors, parliament takes note that his seat has become vacant with effect from 1 march 2018.
ms. takkula, we wish you the best for your new assignment. we shall certainly keep in touch and have the opportunity to discuss the union budget again. thank you, and good work. the competent authorities of spain, finland and latvia have notified the election of ana miranda paz, elsi katainen and miroslavs mitrofanovs as members of the european parliament, with effect from 28 february, 1 march and 5 march 2018, respectively, in place of iosu juaristi abaunz, hannu takkula and tatjana ždanoka. i welcome the new members and remind them that they have full rights in parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure. following the resignation of mr janusz korwin-mikke, parliament takes note of the vacancy of its seat as from 2 march 2018, in accordance with the rules of procedure, and informs the competent national authority thereof.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on 8 february 2018. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda. wednesday a statement by the president on the humanitarian situation in syria, particularly in ghouta, followed by a round of speeches by speakers from the political groups, is added as the first item on the agenda. the debate on the informal european council meeting of 23 february 2018 will be moved to the second item on the agenda and will be introduced by the president of parliament. a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the eu priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2018 is added as the fourth item on the agenda, following the discussion on the situation in poland. the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the union's outlook for the first meeting of the eu-cuba joint council is deferred. thursday the order of the first two points is reversed: the report by mr loones on banking union annual report 2017 will be treated as the first item, and will be followed by a discussion on the report by mr maurel on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax area. the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, mr nils muižnieks, will then speak at 11.30 a.m. before the vote. the following points are added to the vote: the report of mr gualtieri on the appointment of a member of the single resolution board, the objection under rule 106 on the authorisation of genetically modified maize 59122 and the objection under rule 106 on the authorisation of genetically modified maize mon 87427 × mon 89034 × nk603. (parliament adopted the amendments) we now come to the other requests for amendments to the final draft agenda. the gue/ngl group asked for a commission statement on the banned lobbying activities of former commission president barroso, such as the meeting with commissioner katainen, to be added as the eighth item on the agenda, after the council and commission statements on the work and legacy of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
we are putting to the vote the proposal by the gue/ngl group to add a commission statement on the prohibited lobbying activities carried out by former commission president barroso, such as the meeting with commissioner katainen. the vote will take place by roll call. (parliament adopted the request of the gue/ngl group)
most of them already have. the enf group asked on thursday for statements by the council and the commission on jihadist wives returning to europe to be added to a joint debate on jihadists, together with mr nart's report on the draining of jihadists' sources of income.
mr. atkinson, democracy is made up of votes. if a proposal is rejected, the majority vote must be accepted, including in parliament. the order of business is so fixed.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the president of the european parliament on the humanitarian situation in syria, in particular in ghouta (2018/2602 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that there is no 'catch the eye' procedure for this debate, nor will there be any 'blue card' questions.
i would like to welcome to our midst, ladies and gentlemen, archbishop jean-clément jeanbart of the melkite greek catholic archdiocese of aleppo, whom i met this morning and with whom we discussed the dramatic situation in syria. in recent days, shelling of eastern ghouta, particularly against civilians and hospitals, has killed more than 550 people, including 120 children, women, elderly and vulnerable people. (the president interrupts) - (applause from the centre) - i have to say that i am very pleased. they finally understood, we are talking about the dead and innocent victims in syria! i was referring to the bombings in eastern ghouta which killed over 550 people, including 120 children, women, the elderly and vulnerable people. thousands of wounded are in a state of absolute emergency. on 24 february, the united nations security council adopted resolution 2401 calling for a cessation of hostilities in syria and the implementation of a humanitarian truce in the country for at least 30 days. sweden and kuwait, with the active support of france, the united kingdom and the united states, and with the cooperation of the european union in a coordinating role, have acted with determination to ensure that resolution 2401 will allow the bombing to cease, humanitarian aid to be provided and the evacuation of the wounded and the most vulnerable to be organised. this resolution has not been complied with to date. for the ceasefire to be implemented without delay throughout syria, all parties, all those who have influence on the ground must take their responsibilities, including the astana guarantors to whom an appeal has been made. no interest can justify barbarism, ethnic cleansing, the slaughter of innocents. no situation can excuse the abuse of the weakness of a suffering people, of vulnerable people. in this regard, i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms the blackmail, harassment and sexual exploitation that may have taken place in the context of the distribution of humanitarian aid in syria. the continuation of negotiations within the geneva process is another imperative for achieving a political settlement to the conflict in syria. the european union, under the mediation of the united nations in geneva, continues to work in this direction. on 24 and 25 april, the second brussels conference will focus on political and humanitarian solutions to support syrians in need and countries hosting syrian refugees. this conference should not be limited to declarations but should lead to concrete solutions. it's about the future of syria and the entire region. syria cannot be the scene of a war between two other countries. syrians are paying for the problems that other countries are facing: this is unacceptable. that is why i think the european parliament must be very firm on these issues. we must therefore work with the european commission and the council to achieve peace. the task is not easy. we are still talking about the european union's foreign policy, and this is not a theoretical exercise: we must commit ourselves to defending the syrians. we cannot force them to leave their country, we cannot force them to go to germany, italy or france: they have the right to live in their country, with their mosques, their churches. we have a duty to make a strong commitment as a parliament and to send this message of friendship and solidarity to our syrian brothers who have been living in great difficulty for years. that is why i am giving the floor to commissioner stylianides, whose presence here i welcome, to tell us about the situation on the ground.
we cannot forget, mr salafranca, what the fundamentalist followers of the islamic state are doing, which is killing a great many people. for this reason, we must be tough on the syrian and russian armed forces, but we cannot forget what the terrorists of the islamic state are doing, for example, by killing many christians who are leaving syria.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council statement on the informal european council meeting of 23 february 2018 (2018/2575 ((rsp)). last friday i explained to the informal european council our proposal on the composition of this parliament for the next term and our positions on other institutional matters and on the next multiannual financial framework. i thank president tusk for informing me yesterday of the discussions that took place during the working breakfast. i am pleased to announce that the proposal on the future composition of parliament, which we approved by a large majority during the last part-session in strasbourg, was received positively by the heads of state and government, who considered it to be sensible and balanced. so i thank the rapporteurs danuta maria hübner and pedro silva pereira once again for the excellent work they have done. i have stressed to the council that parliament's proposal ensures that no country will lose seats in the current situation and takes account of the political need for a smaller parliament following the uk's withdrawal, the need to adjust the composition of parliament to the demographic changes in the various member states in recent years, and the desirability of leaving a margin for the future allocation of seats to newly acceding countries. i am convinced that this proposal will be approved swiftly by the european council, also because the decision currently in force, which is from 2013, applies only to the current legislature and therefore we need to adopt a new one in time for next year's european elections. when asked about this, i also explained that parliament did not include in its proposal the idea of establishing transnational lists, an idea which is very suggestive but which, for the moment, does not have the support of a majority in this house. the heads of state and government will probably return to the issue in the future, perhaps in the run-up to the 2024 elections. i also recalled that parliament submitted a proposal for the revision of the electoral law as early as 2015 and we hope that the european council will approve at least the parts on which there is consensus in time for the next elections. as you know, the council also discussed the spitzenkandidaten. i underlined the position of the large majority in parliament that the introduction of this practice in the 2014 elections was an important step towards a more political europe, from which there is no turning back. not only must the practice be maintained, but it should be improved, in order to strengthen the commission's legitimacy through a stronger bond of trust with parliament. if we are to reduce the gaps between the institutions and the citizens today, we must give them a strong sense of being part of the decisions on the future governance of the european union. this is a point which remains problematic for the european council, since it is always necessary to find a way of preserving the prerogatives conferred on the council by the treaty. i think it is possible to reach an agreement. at the informal european council we also discussed the new multiannual financial framework. i said that the europe we want must have the financial resources to achieve the objectives we have agreed. i have reiterated that the post-2020 budget must be a political budget, based not on mere redistributive logic but on a clear strategy and precise objectives. the political choices must be made first and only after the budgetary resources necessary to implement them have been established, not the other way around. i said that parliament's priorities are those of our citizens and it is clear that the new financial framework must enable the union to emerge strengthened from the crises of the recent past and to face new challenges, such as the efficient control of migration, the fight against youth unemployment and internal and external security, and therefore also the fight against terrorism and, of course, the question of defence and the fight against climate change. the new challenges are accompanied by traditional ones, such as youth unemployment, which remains a serious problem. we all agree that the new financial framework must be geared to promoting welfare, sustainable long-term economic growth, quality employment and innovation, and of course to promoting the economy through social and territorial cohesion. i have stressed that parliament also recognises the fundamental importance of a modern and environmentally friendly common agricultural policy, which can ensure food security and ensure the survival of the rural population. during the debate i also stressed how important it is for us to focus on our own resources. i said that the european parliament has a position that aims at 1.3% of european gdp, and therefore more money in the budget, but i did not insist too much on the question of own resources, as we had also agreed at the informal meeting i had with the group chairmen. i also indicated what they are: i have just given three examples of this. as regards the timetable, i have explained the majority position in parliament, namely the wish to have a vote in the house on the budget before the next european elections. the technical time is there, we must make the best use of the political time. i said that we are prepared to do everything possible if that becomes our common objective. in short, these are the things i have said on behalf of parliament after having met once again informally with all the group chairmen, precisely because, given the delicacy of the matter and its importance, i have really preferred to be more and more the spokesman for the majority in this house, always saying that where there were majority decisions, they were majority decisions.
for your information, this was an informal european council and the president of the council is not obliged to come and report to parliament. it is his faculty, then the political opportunity is another. i say this for information only.
mr verhofstadt, thank you very much. we want more power for the european parliament. not for the president of the european parliament, but for the european parliament!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last week's informal council also discussed, among other things, the next multiannual financial framework for our europe. it is a very important debate because it has to do with the future, it has to do with the future of our undertakings, research, work, our young people, the environment, in other words, it has to do with the idea we have of europe from now on, in the next seven years. to do this we need - we have written it in our documents, we have said it to the commission and the council - a budget which is strong, a budget which is able to meet the expectations of the citizens, which is able to meet the expectations of our companies, our economy, our world of work. to have a strong budget, we must have european resources, very strong own resources: i think that there is very little push on this side of the council and that there is no will to go ahead. we believe that we must free up resources for the member states and at the same time have a europe which is able to provide at least 50% of its own needs, of its own budget. this is not only the expectation of this parliament, but it is the expectation of the future of the citizens of europe.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. that's not what i think. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was an eastern dissident, václav havel, who taught that there is a power of the powerless, and it is this power that we want to use to warn not only the polish government, but all governments that are on the road to dismantling the rule of law, including governments that are already dismantling it, such as hungary. in a democracy, governments and parliaments are not the only ones who have a monopoly on legitimacy: they share it with the judiciary ultimate guarantor of rights independently of elections. in a democracy, there are no laws that impose a single view of national history.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week we will be going to geneva for the 37th session of the human rights council, and as you said, commissioner, this year also marks the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. human rights are increasingly under attack around the world and politics today seems to want to reduce this issue to a secondary issue, sacrificing it on the altar of realpolitik. but we must be aware that by doing so, those societies which shrink the space of rights are encouraging the decline of democracy and are destroying themselves. it is astonishing how little political foresight there is among so many who seem to be blind to this dangerous drift. in short, lowering the bar for rights is a luxury that a society that wants to call itself democratic cannot afford. i hope that this will be a turning point in the human rights debate.
in writing. in geneva, the 37th session of the human rights council is even more significant this year, as it also marks the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. we call attention to the serious situation in which journalists and human rights activists operate in various parts of the world. the series of attacks, rapes and murders that are too often forgotten is unacceptable. i share the regret of some of my colleagues that the council has not provided for a reference to the binding un treaty on business and human rights, a very important regulatory process currently under way.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i’d like to express my appreciation to the members of parliament who have worked hard in recent months to examine and to improve the commission proposal on the alignment of the spirit drinks regulation. in particular i wish to thank ms ayuso, as rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. the current regulation (ec) no 110/2008 was the last cap regulation still left to be aligned to the lisbon treaty. the spirit drinks sector is strategic for eu geographical indications (gis) and is a top gi export category. it brings a significant value added to the eu agricultural sector. given its importance and successful application, the commission proposal did not seek to change the rules but merely to improve the legislative text and to simplify current lengthy and burdensome gi procedures in the spirit of simplification. the commission notes that most of the amendments voted by the committee on environment, public health and food safety committee last month go in this direction and provide real improvements to the text. however we do regret the position of the environment committee in favour of withdrawing many of the empowerments that in the past years have allowed the commission to maintain the current regulation in line with the actual needs of the market. in its proposal, the commission has used these empowerments only when necessary to supplement provisions of the basic act and adopt uniform rules for implementation that are currently dealt with by means of commission regulations or that may need to be tackled in the future. the commission has divided those empowerments into delegated and implementing acts. there is little margin of manoeuvre for the definition of these empowerments so therefore the commission considers to have proposed an appropriate balance in compliance with the requirements of the treaty. i would point out that the empowerments currently provided for in the regulation that i’ve mentioned are wider than the empowerments proposed for the alignment, as those did not need to be framed by specific conditions for their implementation as is the case under the lisbon treaty. in particular, we need to maintain a sufficiently flexible framework to allow changes in spirit drink categories. if the structure is too rigid we will not be able to respond to the needs of the sector as the commission has done by amending the regulation annually since 2012, always upon request of member states and always with the support of the sector. furthermore, amendments to definitions and categories are already subject to the scrutiny of the parliament and the council. the commission can amend them under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny which, however, no longer exists under the lisbon treaty. turning to the proposal to introduce the possibility of using ethyl alcohol from beer in the production of spirit drinks, the commission acknowledges the issues at stake. nonetheless, we would prefer not to open the door to the use of ethyl alcohol not obtained from agricultural products that are listed in annex 1 to the treaty, as is currently the case. in fact, we considered that spirit drinks, and alcoholic beverages in general, should continue to be produced on the basis of high-quality agricultural products to preserve their reputation worldwide. using a by-product of beer production to produce other alcoholic beverages may undermine the prestige of those products. as regards the chapter on geographical indications, we would prefer to maintain the current definition of spirit gi, which is in line with the trips agreement – meaning that geographical indications are all indications identifying spirit drinks linked to a geographical area, and not only the indications which are already registered. in addition we hope to conclude the validation of the established gi before the adoption of the new regulation. however, we should be allowed to continue that process in the new legal framework in cases where such an examination has not being concluded. therefore we need to maintain a legal basis for that purpose. we remain confident that these and other issues will be resolved smoothly during the forthcoming trilogue negotiations, given the collaborative spirit of all concerned in these institutions and in the common objective of reaching the most balanced and satisfactory result which allows for a modern framework for the growth of the spirit sector.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the spirits sector, with €10 billion in 2016, represents 8% of european agri-food exports. the measure is therefore of particular importance not only for the internal market but also for international trade in these products. the commission's contribution focused on three points. the first is the new electronic register, which will be transparent and accessible and will be open to the registration of quality products from countries with which we have agreements. the second concerns the reintroduction on the label of the additional translation of the protected original names, which is essential to facilitate the recognition of these products in third countries. the third and final point is the strengthening of the protection of geographical indications against counterfeiting and abuse. the regulation provides for the first time for the interception and blocking of products which fraudulently use geographical indications and which transit through the territory of the union to reach third countries.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called spirit drinks, i.e. liqueurs and spirits, are regulated differently. this is right, because of the peculiarity of these chains; however, this speciality must be linked to high quality standards which must always be guaranteed. many producers in this sector - often small and mediumsized enterprises - are characterized by traditional production methods, the use of raw materials of the highest quality, and strict controls to protect the health of the consumer. for these virtuous producers who are aiming at quality products, we have a duty to provide clear rules and effective measures to combat counterfeiting, and this is even more so when we are talking about pdo or pgi products, i.e. with geographical indications. we find products on the market that are altered for profit and drinks that take advantage of the reputation of established names without having the necessary qualifications, thus misleading consumers. what the union must do is to put a stop to these illegal practices with a clear and firm voice.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to speak briefly about the question of the mixing of alcohol from beer into spirits. of course, the ethanol that comes from the processing of nonalcoholic beer is also ethanol. just like you can make ethanol from the by-products of winemaking, from sugar beets, from corn and many other things. that's not the point. the point is that decades ago the by-products of winemaking were given this small competitive advantage, that these products can be mixed into spirits, whereas the by-product of beer-making, which has only appeared in recent years - since we have it in non-alcoholic beer - is a waste product and does not have this advantage. i think we should think very carefully about whether, without knowing what quantities we are talking about here and what we are going to get, we should just throw this waste product overboard, whether we should give this extra refinement and allow it to be mixed with spirits. i shall in any case vote tomorrow in favour of maintaining the status quo, which means that the distillation of by-products of wine production will continue to be preferred in the production of spirits.
i would like to thank mr engel, with whom we have been working on this. we began this part-session by remembering the slovak journalist who was brutally murdered yesterday, as well as all the victims of investigative journalism. we stood up, aware that freedom of expression, information and the media are fundamental to guarantee democracy and the rule of law. our societies cannot develop without a free, independent, accountable media system, based on principles such as fact-checking, measures to curb fake news, protection of sources and safety of journalists. we strongly condemn all forms of incitement to hatred, including the increasingly frequent statements by political leaders and parties of racist and xenophobic political ideas and speeches. in the resolution we recall the intrinsic link between the rule of law and fundamental rights. we condemn in the strongest terms all forms of discrimination based on sex, race, colour, ethnic and social origin and sexual orientation. we call on the commission to appoint coordinators for afrophobia and anti-gypsyism and to step up the fight against racism and discrimination against people of african descent and roma. we have found that migrants and refugees are increasingly victims of discrimination and violence and subject to closure policies by other member states. finally, we call loudly for solidarity and respect for the fundamental rights of migrants seeking asylum, but above all, in the field of migration, for safe and legal channels to europe to be strengthened as soon as possible.
in writing. the basis of european integration lies in the respect for and promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. that is why the european states are perceived in the world as a bulwark for the protection of individual freedoms. however, despite recent reports by international and european agencies and organisations indicating significant progress, violations of fundamental rights continue to occur. cases of discrimination against minorities and incitement to racial hatred are on the rise. the situation is alarming. the protection of the human rights of the most vulnerable groups deserves particular attention. those fleeing war and despair must be welcomed in a proper and dignified manner. i would like to point out, however, that, strangely enough, no report on fundamental rights will ever be produced. since the onset of the frost in europe, about 20 people living in poverty have died. if the protection of the dignity of the human person, moral and legal equality and the right to health are fundamental rights, these cannot happen in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president katainen, i think there are contradictory elements in the explanations given to this parliament and therefore to the citizens of europe. the meeting with barroso is in breach of the commitments he made, and it is inappropriate for someone who has had the honour of serving as president of the commission to then lobby the commission itself through the revolving doors. we also expect the commissioners to be transparent and independent, which means avoiding any potential conflict of interest. we would at least like to know what specific topics you discussed. the challenge of reducing the distance between european citizens and our institutions also starts here, with greater transparency, an indispensable measure to understand what interests are moving in these corridors, otherwise you will reinforce the idea that the eu, with its institutions, has more ears for the bearers of major economic interests than for the problems of citizens and their difficulties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the list of tax havens - this black list - is a priority for a large part of this parliament and for a large part of the citizens in order to ensure justice for those who encourage tax evasion and avoidance. unfortunately, this list, a month after its application, has seen countries like panama dropped off the list. panama: there is a committee of inquiry in this parliament on the panama papers and we are going to take it down and put it on a grey list! so panama is a cooperating jurisdiction? in fact, if we look, in panama i still see a lot of darkness, which must be brought to light. as a recent oxfam simulation has shown, if the criteria applied in a transparent, independent and non-political way were applied to all countries, there would be at least 35 non-eu countries, including switzerland, bermuda, the cayman islands, singapore and the virgin islands, as well as four countries within the european union itself, namely luxembourg, malta, the netherlands and ireland. luxembourg and the netherlands: the european union is not a single currency, but a single currency, and it is not a single currency, but a single currency. the european union is not a single currency, but a single currency. i strongly urge this parliament, the commission and everyone else to demand the right reforms (with the same urgency with which they are asking the greeks, the italians, the people of the south) in tax matters from these founding countries of the european union, such as the netherlands and luxembourg.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of the 17 countries which have been on the black list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions in recent months, eight have been moved to the so-called grey list in a short time. the first drafting of the blacklist left many questions because it was affected by strong internal and external political pressure, but the subsequent rehabilitation operation by the council of the european union is really opaque. the european union is too quick to remove countries from the blacklist, without it being clear what concrete commitments these countries have made, and without making any progress in resolving the contradictions of the existence of tax havens, even within the european union. we need more transparency. the official blacklisting process is carried out in complete secrecy, leaving citizens in the dark and allowing the "paradise" countries to exploit their political and economic influence. the risk is that you will find yourself dealing with a document that is as empty as it is useless for the purpose of solving such a serious problem.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the vital role that bees play. we said it. 84% of all plant species and 76% of food production depend on bee pollination, with an estimated total economic value of eur 14.2 billion. in the face of these figures, we ask that parliament and the commission take a clear and firm stand in defence of bees and the industry which cares for them. we call for the banning of all substances which have been shown to be harmful to bees, such as the notorious neonicotinoids, and for the precautionary suspension of suspected substances. we call for measures to support crop diversification, the restoration of ecological areas, the preservation of the genetic diversity of local bee populations. we also call for the health of the citizens who consume the products of this chain to be guaranteed: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. we want tougher controls on imports. we want a clear label that tells us if we're eating honey or mixtures of other artificial substances; we want a mandatory label on the actual origin of the honey. we cannot be satisfied with the mere mention of 'european honey' or 'non-european honey': we want full traceability.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr loones, for his excellent work. unfortunately, there are still some very difficult points for us to accept, in general, about the banking union, starting with the first pillar on supervision: there are clear supervisory weaknesses in the banking supervision system and the commission should address these. i am talking about second and third-tier assets, derivatives, which are a market of almost 12 times the npls. we are talking about 6.8 trillion, we are talking about 453 trillion notional. i think the commission should examine its conscience and see whether the problem is only npls, and therefore credit, and not instead also attack what is a systemic problem, namely that linked to the level 2 and level 3 asset market, because that is where the interests of the big commercial banks are and where the real systemic risk is. as regards the second pillar, the resolution, we have seen that bail-in leads to a lack of credibility for savers and confidence in the financial system. so we should also create a deposit guarantee system for all deposits, so that savers are and feel really protected, which the banking union is not able to do today, and so we need this. in addition, we must stop talking about the consequences of banking crises and talk about the causes. the only way is to implement a real banking separation by reopening the bsr project, or banking structural reform, which has been forgotten and should be taken up again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tax planning structures have evolved to become particularly sophisticated and often take advantage of the increased mobility of capital and people in the internal market. they generally consist of mechanisms that develop across jurisdictions and transfer taxable profits to favourable tax regimes or have the effect of reducing tax payable by taxpayers. in these circumstances, it is becoming increasingly difficult for member states to protect their national tax bases from erosion, which prevents them from applying growth-friendly tax policies. the amendment of the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation to strengthen transparency is undoubtedly an important part of the commission's strategy to combat tax evasion and avoidance. the main problem, however, is that the lack of a fair european tax system, or tax union, completely undermines any attempt at economic and social cohesion in europe and vastly increases the possibilities for tax evasion and avoidance.
i too believe that freedom of the press is not a right-wing, left-wing or centre-wing issue. freedom of the press is a fundamental value for the whole of the european union and must be for all governments, whatever their colour. so i think the best solution is to start a written procedure today through the chairmen of the political groups to decide to send a group of parliamentarians, let us see in what form, to slovakia to find out what happened, just as the panama papers committee went to malta to see what was happening. i'll propose a written procedure this afternoon, so that no more time is lost. i must also tell you that three people were arrested today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the slovak republic is not worsened. but the problem is not only to understand who the material perpetrators are, but who the murderers are. we still do not know who ordered the murder of daphne caruana galizia. as i said, i will continue to insist on this subject because we cannot teach others unless we first look inside our own house. i shall therefore proceed quickly with a written procedure so that all the groups can formally express their will and it will be possible to send this delegation of members as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, speaking also on behalf of my colleague mr alberto cirio and others on the subject of slovakia, we put this question. president weber has spoken of funds, of misuse, but there is also misuse of relocation, of internal dumping, and i am referring to the embraco workers, who will be laid off, and the company could move from italy to slovakia. this is an abuse, and it is very serious if it occurs within the regions of the european union.
i have dealt with the matter myself because yesterday the workers and trade union representatives of the company in question came with the president of the piedmont region. i have already mobilized myself to try to give a concrete answer and i am in agreement with the trade unions, with the president of the region and also with the italian authorities who are following the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know and appreciate what you did yesterday and will continue to do in this very difficult situation, on which, as you know, the italian government's efforts are converging in the same direction: we need to ask multinational companies to have a sense of social responsibility. when they go to a country, they invest, they work, and they cannot close for purely financial reasons, because it is their reputation that is lost and therefore it is also a loss for them. i would simply ask that in the course of this evaluation, which the committee on budgetary control will also carry out with all the instruments at its disposal, we also assess whether regional funds, european funds which go to the less developed regions to help them grow, are instead used to do so by dumping labour, social and fiscal resources. i think that, alongside all the measures we are going to take for this undertaking, for the workers we have all received together, there is also this aspect of the use of european funds.
we're not having a human rights discussion. there have been calls for urgent matters, but we have a guest, and i think it's our duty as well. we can intervene before the debate.
that is what we are doing, but the murder of the journalist is such a serious matter that the commissioner for human rights whom we have invited, mr muižnieks, must have understood the importance of the matter. i thank him for his patience for a few minutes, but we were also discussing human rights. (the sitting was suspended at 11.48 a.m.) parliament meets for a speech by mr nils muižnieks, commissioner for human rights of the council of europe.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the next item is the election of a vice-president of the european parliament to replace mr czarnecki. i would remind you that under rule 20 of the rules of procedure the new vice-president takes over from the outgoing vice-president, replacing him in the order of precedence. i have received the nominations of mr krasnodębski, proposed by the ecr group, and mr tarand, proposed by a number of members at least equal to the low threshold. the candidates have informed me that they accept the applications. since the number of candidates is greater than the number of seats to be allocated, we must proceed, in accordance with rule 17 (1) of the rules of procedure, to a secret ballot. we shall therefore proceed to the election by secret electronic voting. - after the vote:
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 1 march 2018.
ladies and gentlemen, just two weeks ago, in a debate in plenary, we expressed our concern about the dramatic situation in syria. a few hours by plane from strasbourg, the syrians are suffering, the syrians are hostages to issues that are bigger than them. and far from bringing hope, recent developments in the last few days have removed any prospect of beauty. in a few weeks, the offensive on eastern ghouta has killed over a thousand people: children, women, vulnerable elderly people. thousands of wounded are in a state of absolute emergency. finally, the spiral of violence raises the worst fears: the humanitarian situation inside the encircled enclave could deteriorate rapidly. the news from there is terrible. all parties must take responsibility, including, i repeat, the guarantors of the astana process. no interest, no cause can justify barbarism, ethnic cleansing, the slaughter of innocents. i would like to make a solemn appeal on behalf of you and our institution for the immediate implementation of the un security council resolution. there is an urgent need for a lasting ceasefire, for the protection of civilians, for the evacuation of the wounded and sick, for the delivery of aid. it is urgent that a political solution can be found within the framework of the geneva process. all those who have influence must act to bring this tragedy to an end. humanity is lost in syria, let's not lose ours. (applause) i would like to thank i think that this message from strasbourg is a positive message for the citizens who are in the middle of the fighting, between the combatants on one side and the other. they are the victims: without weapons, they cannot leave the city. let us hope that they succeed, but let us also hope that, with this message, we can turn the situation in the right direction.
this year, on the occasion of women's rights day, i want to reaffirm parliament's strong commitment to the fight to ensure effective equality of rights between men and women. this is the fight of the century, but we're a long way from winning it. the data speak for themselves: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of women in education, which aims to promote the integration of women into society and to promote the integration of women into society. so does the inequality of responsibility within the family. today, only 24% of managers are women and just 4.6% are ceos. in addition, there are 655 million fewer women than men in employment. i believe that gender equality is not only a matter of civilization, but also in the interest of our society. in the world of work, women are an invaluable resource. it has been calculated that excluding women from the world of production costs the world $11.5 trillion in terms of lower growth between now and 2025, which is the equivalent of the combined gross domestic product of japan, germany and the united kingdom. achieving gender equality in key areas of employment, starting with pay, is essential to ensure more growth and jobs in the whole economy. to create jobs, we need women entrepreneurs, professionals, leaders in research. the cultural change that is needed will, of course, be slow and take time, but it is already under way. in the last year, it has also manifested itself through the fight against stereotypes of women's roles, as demonstrated by the "me too" campaign. i am very grateful to mr reintke, mr schlein and mr martin for organizing a petition on this subject with almost 130 000 signatures which was handed to me this afternoon. officials and other women and men working in the european parliament have also drawn up their petition with over a thousand signatures, and i met them this afternoon and received the text of their petition. i would inform you that this evening the bureau is likely to adopt a number of measures aimed at preventing and combating all forms of sexual harassment within our institution. i also thank the femm committee of the european parliament for its valuable and tireless work in support of women, and i welcome the european prize for women in ict, established by commissioner gabriel, which is an example to follow. the union must continue to fight for true equality between men and women, because we will not have a better world without giving due value to the role of women and their commitment and passion. this is not a battle of women for women or against men. we must fight it together, men and women, day by day. we still have a long way to go, but we are all determined. i believe that this is the best message that the european parliament can send to the citizens on 8 march. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
i will follow the matter personally and ask the turkish ambassador for clarification.
thank you, mrs. gollnisch, we'll check what you said, send me all the documentation you have and then we'll see.
well, we'll have to check.
i'll talk to the relevant quaestor.
if i understand correctly, there is agreement between mr lamberts and mr de jong on a proposal: we hold the debate today without a resolution, we give the committee on budgetary control a mandate for the evaluation and, after the work of the committee on budgetary control, we present a resolution - i think that will be done on thursday. on thursday, the conference of presidents will also assess the situation and make a proposal for an addition to the agenda. in short, we are going to vote on a motion for a debate without a resolution, but we are instructing the committee on budgetary control to assess the situation, then we will have a resolution and a vote in plenary and, on thursday, at the next conference of presidents, we will put the points on the agenda. the roll call vote is open. everything is blocked, if mr. de jong accepts a show of hands we can do it.
(addressing mr de jong) are you in favour of a vote without the card, because there is a large majority?
the europe of nations and freedom group has asked for a commission statement on 'eu development aid and abuse by ngos' to be added as the second item on the agenda, following the commission statement on 'the commission's political integrity'. it is therefore requested that both the debate and the vote on the report by mr lundgren entitled 'initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles and driving licences' be postponed to the april part-session. i give the floor to mr olaf stuger to formulate the request of the enf group.
(parliament rejected the request of the enf group) the s&d group asked that, as the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon, following the debate on the report by mr viotti on the 'budgetary guidelines 2019 - section iii', a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'progress on the united nations global compacts for safe, orderly and regular migration and on refugees' be added. the debate should end with a resolution to be voted on in april. i give the floor to mrs maria joao rodrigues to put forward the request of the s&d group.
so mrs wikström is proposing that we have the same debate, but in april. i do not know whether mr rodrigues agrees with that or whether he wants to put it to the vote.
so we can do it this way: i can ask the high representative, if you agree, to add statements on this matter during his speech and then we will have the debate and the resolution in april. could this be a proposal that could work? is it all right if i ask? i shall then ask vice-president mogherini to add some comments on the matter raised and then the conference of presidents will decide how to include a debate on this subject on the april agenda. (parliament approved the proposal) the ecr group asked that, as the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon, following the debate on the report by mr viotti on the 'budgetary guidelines 2019 - section iii', a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'the prospects for peace on the korean peninsula in the light of recent developments' be added. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr nirj deva to formulate the request of the ecr group.
mr deva, do you agree to this, to have a debate in april which is possible, for example? that is my proposal, to ask ms mogherini to speak also for two minutes on north korea, peace and the usa, and then to have a debate in april. it is a proposal from mr preda. are you in favour or not?
so you want me to put your proposal to a vote? i made her a counter-proposal: i would ask the high representative to express the european union's position on this subject, pending a debate in april, and i will put your proposal to the vote if you wish to vote.
so, i'll make you this offer: we shall vote on mr deva's motion for a debate to be held tomorrow. but at the same time, if the proposal is rejected, we could ask vice-president mogherini, as we have done on the immigration issue, to inform us about what the european union is doing. if you're all right with it, i'll tell you what. (voting equipment malfunction - electronic verification not possible)
there are problems with this but the vote was very clear. the large majority is against and the proposal is rejected. i ask the plenary: do you agree to a short speech in the longer speech by ms mogherini on this?
i will ask vice-president mogherini to devote a few moments of her speech to this problem as well. (parliament approved the president's proposal)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss a certain mr selmayr, a gray-haired civil servant, whom no european citizen knows. why would you do that? because selmayr, in a moment, found himself sitting in one of the heaviest seats in the european commission. the problem is that we know who wanted to put the german selmayr in charge of the juncker cabinet and whose interests he was serving. i do not question the formal correctness of the appointment itself, but rather the political role or otherwise of the commission and its president, and above all i would like to know what consideration ethics should have in public life. i would ask myself and ask you, ladies and gentlemen: the commission's president and commissioners are mere technicians or are they politicians? because if they are politicians - as president juncker has repeatedly said - how do they answer to the citizens who did not elect them but who are affected by their decisions? politicians, especially those who are in charge of the institutions, must act with integrity, discipline, honour and always behave in an ethically sound manner. all their acts must not only be, but also appear blameless. there can be no doubt about their work. where are the ethics and transparency that you, commissioner, mentioned earlier? what are the mechanisms for political sanctioning of such attitudes and behaviour, since neither you, commissioner oettinger, nor president juncker have been directly elected by the citizens, and there is no provision for an individual motion of no confidence? above all, where is president juncker? the vote in italy has shown that the people no longer want this europe, which is closed in a fortress of recommendations, german interests and lobbyists. from italy a wind of change is blowing strongly, which you can no longer ignore.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my group colleagues malin björk, azadeh jafari and roberta paoletti. this report is the result of a relationship between women and i hope that this will also be reflected in the text. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the committee secretariat who contributed to the drafting of this report, the ngos and the experts who were the protagonists of the hearing, in particular the aidos association and the stop ttip italy network, for their contribution. i would also like to thank very much the collective feministe nove, whose manifesto commits me to trying to make a difference in this institution too, and the global feminist movement non una di meno, which also took to the streets on 8 march, for the strength it gives to each and every one of us, including me. when this parliament began, a report we commissioned from the committee on international trade called the eu's trade policy 'gender-blind' and gave us some guidance on how to make it 'gender-sensitive'. in the report i was rapporteur for in 2016 report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility and their impact on international trade policies we were already trying to call for a reversal of the union's trade policy, a reversal that made human rights clauses binding, and not subordinate to those clauses that instead protect profit and investors' rights. in that report we called for human, social and environmental rights to be defined not simply as non-tariff barriers but as central elements to be safeguarded in trade policy too. in this report we are dealing with those fundamental human rights which are the rights of women. gender equality is a universal objective enshrined in international instruments and also in the fundamental treaties of the european union, which should commit itself to promoting and ensuring gender equality in its political actions, and therefore also in its trade policy. i would remind you that among the broader goals of the united nations, the sustainable development goals, and in particular goal 5, state that gender equality, the empowerment of women and girls must be achieved by 2030. none of this is yet fully present in the european union's trade policy, and this report is moving in that direction. it is estimated that only 20% of trade agreements mention women's rights, while the european union is ratifying or negotiating treaties that include services, and thus more of the previous trade agreements are intertwined with human rights and women's rights. i come now to some of the main points of this report, which was not difficult to explain, given the different political minds who have worked to find a synthesis. the points, i am sure, will be explained in more detail by my colleague malin björk; what i want to say, however, clearly at the end of this speech, is that i hope that this can be a piece to change from a feminist point of view - which is a point of view that demands justice, not only for women and girls, but for everyone - the trade policy of the european union, which cannot be governed solely by the logic of competition and profit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a resolution which highlights the potential that trade agreements can have for women workers and women entrepreneurs. a study by the european commission shows that greater participation of women in the real economy could increase global gdp by $25 billion by 2025. this is an impressive figure, which would add to the benefits of globalisation in terms of eradicating poverty and empowering women. the report also stresses the importance of respect for human rights, which remain central to trade relations. europe is the world's leading exporter of goods and services: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of women's rights, including the right to vote, to have their rights respected and to have their rights respected. but we must not fall into the temptation to step up to the plate and expect our trading partners to achieve our high standards of protection of rights quickly. i believe in dialogue and the exchange of good practices.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would again like to thank honourable members for their interest, questions and suggestions. i would like to assure members that the commission will take their observations and recommendations into consideration in its future work on trade and women’s economic empowerment. as the report recognises, there are limits to the extent to which global issues can be solved through trade policy and free trade agreements alone. domestic policies, such as those tackling gender segregation in the labour market and alleviating the disproportionate care responsibilities that women face, are clearly the key. however, we must all do our share. therefore, the commission will continue to make the european union’s trade policy more inclusive so that it contributes to women’s economic empowerment. i promise you, also in the name of my colleague, ms malmström, who – as you know – is a female commissioner for trade, that the commission will keep you closely informed on developments, including the trade negotiations with chile on trade and gender provisions.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and those who have spoken in this debate, which i believe has highlighted the attempt to bring a feminist point of view, and therefore social justice, for all and for all, into the european union's trade policy, calling for a change of course, drawing on the intersectional and transversal approach of the feminist movement which, in fact, took to the streets once again on 8 march. we strongly urge that this view be included not as a make-up, a rhetorical oration and ornament in the trade policy negotiations, but that there be a substantial change. i would like to mention here some of the points which will be consolidated if this report is adopted tomorrow, as i hope it will be. a general chapter on the model mandate given to the commission for the renegotiation and modernisation of the treaty with chile was mentioned earlier by mrs rodríguez-piñero, who was rapporteur for that parliament report and shadow rapporteur for this report, for which i am grateful. as mrs arena said, we are calling for binding and punishable clauses in the clauses protecting human rights and gender equality. public services are exempted from trade agreements and not privatised; that there are dispute settlement mechanisms that ensure the ability of individual governments to legislate in the public interest and in the service of public policy objectives; the european parliament must be kept informed of all the negotiating stages. that there are ex post and ex ante assessments with regard to gender-differentiated impacts; there is a gender perspective not just at the end of the negotiations, but during the negotiations. i hope, and i really hope, that parliament will be able to adopt this report. it would be a good response to the march 8 demonstrations.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a good thing that violence against women is being discussed again and again in this house. however, as we speak, crimes against women show no sign of abating. the black press feeds on tragedies that we often mourn when it's too late. my country ratified the istanbul convention in 2013, and yet the dramatic toll of new victims, who should have been saved by virtue of it, continues. i am talking about women who have unsuccessfully denounced their tormentors, i am talking about a system which is clearly still unable to put an end to unacceptable forms of daily violence. fortunately, something is moving, at least in the consciousness and awareness of women, who are beginning to tear the unbearable veil of shame and fear, and who are finding the courage to report hate crimes, which for too long have been silenced or ignored. but this is not enough, and there is clearly a need for further concrete action by the union and the member states to protect women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago italy was shocked by yet another incident of violence against women. a law enforcement officer, armed with his own service pistol, fired on his family, killing two daughters and seriously wounding his wife. all the papers said it was because the woman had asked for a divorce. i find this sentence of obscurantism unacceptable, and it shows us how far we still have to go. what happened happened because that man was violent and considered his wife his property. the istanbul convention has certainly done a lot, but it is on a cultural level that the road ahead is uphill. in the wealth of knowledge which underpins our beliefs more than we think, women are never represented as individuals who find full expression in their professional role. and with the economic crisis, the situation has worsened, as women are among the most affected categories. the main work has to be done on the cultural models that our society continues to offer us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to discuss the ratification of the istanbul convention a few days after the demonstrations of 8 march, the global strike by women against productive and reproductive work, against gender, against revolution. i believe that this movement, the feminist movement non una di meno, has had the ability to name with an intersectional look, holding together the criticism of class, race and gender domination, all forms of male patriarchal violence against women, and has been able to name, from a transfeminist movement, also the criticism of heteronormative patriarchy. this parliament must respond to this movement, and i believe that working to get the european union and the member states to ratify and respect the istanbul convention would be the least we could do to respond to what this movement is asking for.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of the common fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement reached in the trilogue, the transport companies will finally have to provide their regulatory authorities with a set of data to enable objective assessments to be made and market failures to be identified. unfortunately, regulators in many countries currently do not have access to such data, which hinders the monitoring of competition in parcel delivery markets. the agreement will make crossborder parcel delivery services in the european union more transparent and better controlled. greater price transparency and more effective supervision will help to increase market efficiency and bring about a reduction in tariffs, which until now have not always been fully justified. greater transparency will certainly lead to lower prices for citizens, especially those living in rural areas, and may open up opportunities for development for small and mediumsized enterprises, which, as is well known, have limited bargaining power. this regulation brings order to an important area and is fundamental to the development of e-commerce. finally, it is important to provide for criteria of economic accessibility in the context of the universal service obligation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 march 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by peter lundgren, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/59/ec on the initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers and directive 2006/126/ec on driving licences (com (2017) 0047 - c8-0025/2017 - 2017/0015 (cod)) (a8-0321/2017).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this short but very rich debate. i would once again like to thank the co-legislators for their constructive approach and flexibility shown in reaching this agreement. i am convinced that the end result will contribute to that objective and that it will address the problems we had identified in our proposals. let me stress here that these new rules will apply to all drivers operating on our roads, including the third countries. this is another important contribution, a step forward towards our vision of zero fatalities and serious injuries on our roads, and i am glad that in may i will be able to present to you our more comprehensive road safety package, which involves the policy orientations for the future, concrete proposals on the infrastructure safety and vehicle safety, as well as a list of other tangible actions that we are working on, including the communication on autonomous mobility. our next target, in terms of improving the conditions for professional drivers, is already well underway in the discussions on the road safety package, and i look forward to carrying the positive spirit from the certificate of professional competence (cpc) into the next negotiation, and i look forward, as i said before, to a positive vote in plenary tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is undergoing a profound change, and the european union must be able to respond effectively to it. the vehicles in use in the european union are mostly old, produced with technologies that do not allow the application of the most advanced techniques and digital dialogue. the same can be said of the present road systems, which are clearly not up to the task. the new technologies, of which cooperative intelligent transport systems are a part, require harmonization of legislation, which has been confusing and has always presented new problems. the commission and the european institutions are clearly behind schedule: the institutional system, in essence, is not keeping pace with the technological revolution, which is proceeding at much higher speeds. there is also the cost problem: the introduction of c-its services, i.e. to connect some 30 million drivers, requires some eur 3 billion per year. it is legitimate to ask: who will bear the costs? that is why the member states must be involved more. a shared and effective european strategy is needed. the challenge is real and urgent.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran), and specifically the rapporteur mr ujhelyi, for taking the initiative of putting together this important report. this report could not have come at a better time. this quick deployment of eu-wide interoperable cooperative intelligent transport systems, better known as c-its, is the first milestone towards cooperative, connected and autonomous mobility. and cooperative connected an autonomous mobility – and here is yet another abbreviation – ccam as we call it, is one of the priorities of the third mobility package that is coming out on 2 may this year. let me pick up on a number of issues in the report that that are of particular importance for our current and future work. the report stresses that the c—its communication approach needs to be technology-neutral, based on hybrid communication and interoperable. i couldn’t agree more. as i said in the beginning, rapid deployment is of the essence. the ‘day—one’ services should aim at hitting the mass market in 2019. we must, therefore, build on existing technologies and provide investment security to the early adapters. new technologies such as 5g and satellite will become part of the hybrid communication mix as they become available. but if they are used to provide the same day-one services they must be deployed in a way that is compatible, otherwise the services wouldn’t work properly any more, and, most importantly, we wouldn’t reach our objective of making our transport system safer. i am also very pleased that the report recognises the key coordination role of c-roads in implementing the c-its strategy. our cooperation with the member states within c-roads is indeed instrumental in ensuring that c-its services are harmonised across borders. i am therefore proud to announce that the c-roads family is now expanding to 16 member states and three third-party countries, including australia. finally, i very much welcome the fact that the report mentions data protection and cyber security. both are indeed required in order to make c—its reliable, safe and secure. this is why we intend to cover both areas in a delegated regulation based on the its directive. i hope that we will be able to give you some more details on what to expect in the third mobility package, even if the adoption of the delegated regulation is only foreseen for the end of this year. c-its has great potential for all of us, for all of our citizens in terms of road safety and traffic efficiency. i am very pleased to hear and read that this house agrees with me that this is an area calling for eu leadership. i therefore very much welcome the report and look forward to its adoption in plenary tomorrow.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for your support and for the support you have shown me in the preparation of this report on the less developed regions of the european union. a report highlighting the serious impact of the economic and financial crisis which has seriously damaged the growth of these regions: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat fraud. the report is the continuation of a crucial initiative, launched in 2015 by commissioner crețu, which aims to bring about a better understanding of the complexity of the challenges faced by these regions, characterised by internal structural weaknesses that make them, or at least should make them, the biggest beneficiaries of cohesion policy. the path we have taken has been difficult, as the positions of the various political groups differed widely, but i think we have nevertheless managed to reach an excellent result, even if we have sacrificed some steps in the negotiations, in order to take account of everyone's interests, of course. we are starting from the awareness that the macroeconomic framework has a significant impact on regional growth and that the imbalances of the current crisis risk not only weakening the economies but also undermining the spirit of solidarity which characterizes the european context and the very principle of cohesion policy, which would thus see its efforts, especially in these regions, minimised. we have tried to bring to the commission's attention a number of good practices aimed at encouraging and increasing growth in these regions, especially as regards the specific character of the territory. this is, in my view, part of the vindication of our political role and foreshadows solutions other than those identified by the commission. if we are to be useful, then, we must overcome the ideological barriers that sometimes trap us, and that is why the report outlines three points to achieve this balance, a balance that is likely to be compromised otherwise between politics and economics, between cohesion and economic governance. the real problem we have tried to solve is the definition of the relationship between cohesion policy and european economic policy, the principle of macroeconomic conditionality which supports internal and external symmetries between various regions, and which should be reformed in a positive and constructive way to encourage and stimulate reforms, with the specific aim of investing in those territories which present the greatest structural difficulties. we are discussing the relationship between cohesion policy and the european semester, which should provide country-specific recommendations as a stimulus to growth and not, on the contrary, in the form of a constraint. we must continue to stress and emphasize the importance of cohesion policy, which is an essential tool for correcting competitive imbalances and which should continue to provide ambitious funding for these regions, as a priority for the european union. the member states must play a key role in this respect, including by adopting national strategies designed specifically for the growth of these regions, which are suffering from serious structural deficiencies. as the report states, there is therefore a need to continue investing in infrastructure and education, and to expand and improve relations between business and education. conditionalities should focus on respecting the fundamental values of coexistence and solidarity rather than on the respect of macroeconomic parameters. this is essential if we are to create real european added value for citizens through actions aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, which must always be our objective. in thanking you, and even before the vote in plenary, i look forward to your comments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the macroeconomic imbalances caused by the crisis risk undermining decades of efforts to implement cohesion policy, particularly in regions with low growth and where worrying levels of public and private debt are impeding development. in the difficult relationship between cohesion policy and european economic policy, it is necessary that macroeconomic conditionality, which should bind cohesion funds to compliance with european economic governance rules, be dealt with exclusively in a positive light, in order to encourage and stimulate reforms, with the aim of investing in territories with greater structural difficulties. the need for the member states to play a key role in improving the use of cohesion policy instruments is becoming increasingly evident. this is done by adopting, in conjunction with the commission, national strategies for the growth of lagging regions, which are suffering from serious structural deficiencies, by investing heavily in infrastructure, but also in education, and by exploiting the potential of traditional activities which help to define territorial identity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the so-called backward regions contains several positive points, but also some criticisms. it is positive that the need for a truly solidarity-based approach to the migration challenge is highlighted, without which the contribution of cohesion funds, which should not be allocated to immigration in themselves, will not be effective. it is positive to underline the extremely negative effects of the economic crisis and the related cuts imposed by the stability pact, as well as the proposal to assess the impact on public investment of the exclusion of national and regional co-financing of the structural funds from the deficit calculation. but we cannot agree to a too timid approach to structural reforms, which is different from the initial draft. it cannot be said that reforms can help member states and regions to achieve better results if the commission does not first clarify their purpose and definition. because of the opposition of the majority of other groups, there is no mention of the danger of the commission's proposal to use the performance reserve of 21 billion to allocate these resources to privatisations or to measures to precariousise the labour market.
in writing. cities have a huge responsibility in global warming and therefore have the potential to play a leading role in combating it. clean energy innovations and small-scale renewable energy projects are key to achieving the objectives of the paris cop 21 agreement. this, together with truly sustainable local public transport and more generally, with a correct and complete awareness and information of the citizens about the importance of the consequences of climate change. the proposal also recalls, and this is a key point, the need to consider the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, remediation work and activities to regenerate and decontaminate polluted industrial sites as an important element in the evaluation of the performance of the operational programmes provided for under cohesion policy.
the 2018-2019 session of the european parliament is hereby opened.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the guidelines for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom (2018/2573 ((rsp)).
the resolution we are about to vote on shows that there is a broad unity in parliament and among the institutions on the key points of these difficult negotiations and in support of the action of michel barnier and his team, whom i would like to pay tribute to for their extraordinary work and high institutional sensitivity. we are now at a decisive stage in this titanic effort to ensure an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom and to minimise its negative impact. and as always, we will be constructive and demanding. firstly, the december agreement must be translated into law so that the rights of citizens are fully safeguarded, and this must also apply to the most vulnerable groups: it is not for them, but for the uk authorities, to ensure that no citizen is unfairly deprived of his rights. in this respect the draft treaty, which we welcome, should be further strengthened. it is equally important to avoid any tightening of the irish border. the commission's responsible approach cannot be criticised: it is up to the british government to come up with convincing proposals, and that has not yet happened. secondly, the transition must extend the whole of the community acquis, and therefore no discrimination against citizens is acceptable. we will not allow goods to be treated better than people. thirdly, we want the eu and the uk to have the closest and broadest possible partnership in the future, and we propose that this should be defined in the framework of an association agreement. but this report must strike the right balance between rights and duties, and it must guarantee the integrity of the single market, the full autonomy of the union's legal order, and the protection of financial stability. we regret that theresa may has ruled out the single market and also the customs union. and if the british government revises this position, we will be prepared to discuss a closer economic relationship. if that is not the case, we will work towards a trade agreement which will minimise barriers, particularly to the movement of goods, but which will not be able to eliminate them completely. it should be made clear that the union cannot delegate control of its customs borders to others and that there is no mutual recognition of rules outside the single market. another is regulatory cooperation, and in the case of financial services, the intelligent use of the current equivalence system. in any case, we will not accept social, environmental and fiscal dumping: the european union must be a force against protectionism, but one which protects citizens, workers and the environment. this is the challenge that globalisation is calling us to, and we will be consistent with this vision in the negotiations with the united kingdom as well.
(following some reactions without microphone by the hemicycle) ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to comment, all the groups have had a chance to speak, so they will express their views during the debate.
we have understood that there are different opinions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days donald tusk has said something that is correct but incomplete: the negotiations on future relations cannot proceed unless the united kingdom offers solutions on northern ireland that safeguard the good friday agreement and the rights of northern irish people to be protected by union law. on the contrary, we must continue to negotiate on the crucial issue of european citizenship, a subject which must not leave our minds. the withdrawal agreement must be finalised by the autumn. neither northern irish people, nor european citizens in britain, nor british people living in the union - altogether more than 6 million - can tolerate any more of the anxiety they live in. their rights as european citizens must be safeguarded and ring-fenced in good time. they must never be subordinated to other negotiating chapters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the proposal by parliament to use the formula of the association statute to define relations with the united kingdom. the commission's experience with switzerland tells us that the multiplicity of bilateral agreements is frankly impossible and very difficult to manage. so i think this would be a good proposition. i would therefore be interested to hear from our negotiator, michel barnier, how he sees it, whether he thinks it is possible and in what context, with what dimensions, in what way he thinks it could be applied, particularly, for example, in relation to the hypothesis of a bilateral commission which would then manage the whole question of governance and the agreements made. secondly, i would also like to ask him what is the state of negotiations on the status of european and british citizens after the united kingdom's withdrawal. we have so far dealt mainly with those who are there today, but what will happen next?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, every day that passes, everything that seemed simple becomes bloody more complicated, and reconciling leaving the european union and maintaining the benefits that go with it is becoming more and more difficult, unless we undermine the very idea of europe. this dilemma emerges in all its magnitude when we tackle the issue of the single market, where there is no room for fanciful solutions, as prime minister may said, and no room for à la carte solutions. two years after the referendum and one year after the start of the negotiations, we now need clear answers from the british government. the questions are simple: the single market: yes or no? customs union: yes or no? trade agreement: which one? a definitive answer to these questions is the prerequisite for finally being able to define a strategy of fruitful cooperation for future relations. one thing is clear, mr president: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 march 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
before we move on to the next debate, i'm afraid i have some bad news for you. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i'll remember that before the vote and we'll have a minute of silence. the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 22-23 march 2018 (2018/2502 ((rsp)).
mr president, i am glad that you are sending the text on non-performing loans today, after the college meeting, because it is up to the commission, parliament and the council to decide at the legislative level. it is not the supervisory board of the european central bank that should make laws, but the european institutions, the commission, parliament and council.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, members of the council, the proposals of the next european council are as always many and wonderful, but our fear is that once again they will be just big announcements that will hardly translate into anything concrete for our citizens. let us start with the priorities of the european semester. for us, the economic policies of the euro area can in no way continue to follow the wrong recipe of this commission, based exclusively on austerity and rigor, which we oppose without question, because only through investment in high-return sectors and expansionary policies will it be possible to create real sustainable employment in the medium to long term. the council's concrete commitment to ensuring the principle of reciprocity in both markets and public procurement, monitoring foreign investment and implementing binding rules on sustainable development, which should be part of all trade agreements, but which are often sacrificed, is needed to ensure growth and competitiveness. we therefore want to know what the council is actually doing about this and how it is ensuring that our partners are meeting our standards, thereby avoiding a trade war which would risk damaging our businesses and the 'made in' which we expect to be a priority for europe, for the commission and for the council again. the commission has too often lacked courage in the digital market. at the beginning of the legislature, the completion of the digital single market was announced through 16 initiatives: but many of these have been left in the middle, like geo-blocking, where audiovisual has been excluded from the scope, the area where geo-blocking based on nationality is most evident. the priority objective is to get out of the downward spiral into which we have fallen, and in this context the priority given to the implementation of the principles and rights defined in the european pillar of social rights becomes clear. and a fundamental element of the social pillar is the implementation in the member states of minimum citizenship income policies, as requested by this parliament which approved the resolution of the five star movement on this subject by a very large majority. the vote in italy is proof that citizens are demanding to be back in the spotlight, protected and defended by the institutions, and the five star movement represents today the opportunity for italy to be back as a strong, authoritative and credible voice within the european institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our position on this subject is very clear, because we believe that the idea of reviving the european project with further enlargements is the most wrong idea there is. it makes no sense for us to bring together countries such as finland and montenegro, it makes no sense to put the countries of the east in competition with the balkan countries, after having already put the countries of the south in competition with those of the east. i would like to remind you of the serious consequences, for example, of the embraco case, the case of the transfer of a production plant from my country to slovakia. we think that we should rather work and contribute to the development and stability of the region, without trying to make rash advances to put everyone under the union flag and discover afterwards how hurriedly and poorly prepared a union has been which is already working rather badly. the strategy outlined by the european commission is in fact a complete waste of time and it reintroduces, and exacerbates, the problems that the process of enlargement to the east was already posing. no precise deadlines have been set for anyone, and beyond the chatter only serbia and montenegro have actually started formal talks to join the european union and seem able and able to reach the target by 2025.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years after its creation, we must reflect strategically on the meaning and future of the single market. in many areas, it is far from being completed and is perceived by the public with some disdain as a bureaucratic overhead structure that restricts freedom of enterprise and fails to protect consumers sufficiently. the digital dimension, the new frontier of the single market, is also seen as a dimension without rules and hostile to sectors of the traditional economy. this is why it is time for a renewed political impetus and for ambitious choices. we need a harmonized tax system that supports virtuous internal competition, a european tax on the giants of the web, effective product market surveillance, and new consumer protection instruments. we hope that the next council will take up these requests and relaunch the single market as europe's economic and social engine. the world is fast today: and to do that, we don't have 25 years behind us, we have 25 months ahead of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to be pessimistic, but certainly a reading of the way things are, of the reports which have been presented today, leads us to say that the european council of 22 and 23 march is shaping up to be yet another meeting of postponed decisions, yet another meeting of missed opportunities. i think that the european union cannot continue to miss the opportunities that are presented to it, despite its profound difficulties. the italian elections were also a clear signal from this point of view: the european union must begin to give concrete answers to the citizens, it must be an institution perceived as friendly, as neighbouring, and not as an institution distant and indifferent to the most serious challenges facing the citizens of europe. i think of my country, i think of the issue of immigration, i think of the issue of an economic policy which has failed to stimulate development, to respond to work in a sufficient way. and so today the reform of the eurozone, the social pillar of the eu and the many, too many shortcomings of the european union, starting with the lack of a european unemployment subsidy, which had also been included in the programme, can no longer wait for slow pace and contradictions in national policies, and so the issues of fiscal fairness, and i refer to the speech by maria joão rodrigues.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, president juncker said earlier that at the next council you will be discussing a stronger and more democratic union. start showing more strength against corporate tax evasion and avoidance, which costs us a trillion a year: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and if you had the political will, you could adopt fundamental countermeasures tomorrow, such as public reporting by state or the ccctb, to establish a simple principle: that taxes are paid where profits are made. and we want much more courage on dublin reform: the draft laws circulating in the council are an insult to our role and a disgrace to this house. solidarity is voluntary, but it has not solved anything, mandatory inadmissibility procedures that violate international law and increase the burden on border countries, fewer safeguards for children and sanctions that violate fundamental rights and monetize them: is a life really worth 30,000 euros to you? parliament urges you to have an ambitious position, one that goes beyond the hypocritical criterion of the first country of accession and replaces it with a permanent mechanism of responsibility sharing. a stronger union, yes, but with the strong, not the weak.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
as announced at the beginning of the debate which has just ended, our colleague jens nilsson has unfortunately passed away prematurely. he died this morning in sweden after a short illness. mr nilsson was first elected to the european parliament in 2011 and re-elected in 2014 in the ranks of the swedish social democratic party and sat on the s&d group benches. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on regional development and the delegation for relations with belarus, mr nilsson carried out his political work with genuine enthusiasm and with unusual working ability. he fought with determination for a social economy, an ideal in which he firmly believed and which was for him the battle of a lifetime. on behalf of all of us, i would like to express our deepest sympathy to his family, his wife and daughter, and our deepest condolences to his friends, his party colleagues, the s&d group and all those who knew and appreciated him. i would therefore ask you to join me in observing a minute's silence in memory of jens nilsson. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the applause of the house needs no further comment.
dishonest and immoral is not to be said of anyone, but if there was no intention on his part obviously as that intended by mr woolfe i think that is a sufficient clarification. but dishonest and immoral can certainly not be interpreted in the direction of another colleague.
ms boylan, thank you very much.
well, i think now, mr. coburn, we know you're quite lively, we know your liveliness. i believe that in the end the words he used or the intention to use that term were political criticism and not an insult to his colleague, so, as interpreted, it was political criticism and it seems to me that he did not want to offend for racial or political reasons, so i think the word should be interpreted as pure political criticism. if it were otherwise, we would have had to intervene, but i think that this was merely a political criticism and nothing more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has the merit of drawing the attention of the european parliament to the imbalance between the various regions, and in particular of putting the poorest and least developed regions of the union under a magnifying glass. i believe that this is a very important issue at this historic moment, and i say this with an island in mind, one of the largest islands in the mediterranean, sardinia, which suffers - despite the principle of territorial continuity guaranteed by the treaty on the functioning of the european union - from a series of absolutely intolerable imbalances, imbalances which are damaging to the island from every point of view, particularly in the transport sector. it is almost impossible to imagine, but it is a reality, that the citizens of this island, italian citizens, european citizens, are unable to move around with the same freedom as their italian compatriots, rather than the other countries of the union. i believe that this is one of the focal points for restoring dignity and justice to an island which is an integral part of italy and europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of climate change is particularly close to the heart of the five star movement. we are pleased with the report because three of the points we have proposed are included in it, namely: the commission has already proposed that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the remediation of polluted sites and the regeneration and decontamination of industrial sites should be considered as an important element in the evaluation of the performance of operational programmes. two, the vital role that regions, cities and local authorities have in promoting the energy transition: clean energy innovations and small-scale renewable energy projects are key to achieving the paris goals, along with truly sustainable local public transport and more generally along with a correct and comprehensive awareness of the citizens about the importance of the consequences of climate change. thirdly, condemnation of the irresponsibility of capitalism and the production methods of the old second industrial revolution, and therefore of economic activities and industrial sectors which still generate unacceptable levels of pollution in europe today. i cannot help mentioning the economic, social and environmental disasters that have been caused in my country by the ilva steelworks, the enel coal-fired power station and today the tap gas pipeline. europe should be the promoter of a world that makes the latest technologies the backbone of a new economic system, from internet communication in 5g to the new driverless mobility. we need to change our economic model as soon as possible, or we will be overwhelmed by a mass extinction, one caused by man and his activities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on the texts under discussion, parliament is taking a position on the future financial framework and its financing through genuine own resources. in the light of the new challenges facing the eu in research and youth mobility, but also in the areas of culture and education, cultural and creative industries, migration, social issues, the completion of the euro area and the banking union, security and defence and new programmes, a factual discussion is needed. we need a bigger budget in absolute terms after 2020, not just percentages, despite brexit, but also a more shared awareness: the contribution to the european budget is not an expense but an investment. we can certainly do more together to make our action more effective, to achieve economies of scale, better and greater public goods on a european scale, and to spend less overall. but the size of the budget must be increased, and this cannot be done by relying on increased contributions from member states which are already committed, so the own resources must be increased as has been stressed... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the present system of own resources is very complex, unfair, opaque and sometimes incomprehensible: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the way in which the system of own resources has evolved, gradually replacing real own resources with so-called national contributions, places too much emphasis on net balances between member states, ignoring the contribution of the union budget to the achievement of common european objectives. the reform of the union's resources is imperative to bring about greater coherence between budgetary revenue and expenditure policies. in my report i have highlighted some proposals which i believe deserve the support of the european parliament and the commission, and i am referring to the reform of the vat own resource and the eu's emissions trading system, the co2 tax, the transport tax and the electricity tax, a european-wide financial transaction tax, a corporate income tax and revenues from the digital single market.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european parliament and council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a message from the afco committee: we believe that in the package of institutional reforms under discussion it is essential to change the current procedure for the mff, bringing parliament and the council on an equal footing, that is to say parliament with full decisionmaking power and the council with qualified majority voting. it is a reform issue, but it is very important if we are to have real equality between our institutions. secondly, i would like to say to the council and the commission again: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. finally, i believe that we can achieve the 1.3% we are proposing by means of additional own resources which are added to the contributions of the states, which must not be reduced.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report this afternoon, for the work he is doing and for the work we will be doing in the months ahead. we are discussing something very important, because we are drawing up not just two documents of our european union, but we are drawing up the future of the european union itself. there are documents, own-initiative reports from parliament, and then the work that will be done by the commission, which must give a new signal from europe, a different signal. but to give a different signal, an idea, an image, there must also be different policies, new policies and policies that give a vision and a future. these are the two jobs we've been focusing on these past months, these past weeks: the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the new financial framework, mr fernandes said it a little while ago, and you said it too, commissioner, the 1.3% horizon we are giving ourselves is not a dream, it is something that is widely achievable. i do not think this parliament is a tired parliament, it is a very responsible parliament, i think. we know what the citizens are asking and we know what the answers are that we have to give, and we have to be the added value for the citizens and for our businesses, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, on huge issues such as research, development, young people, growth, the environment, energy, agriculture: it is a question of the future of the community. that's why we need additional resources. you said they don't have to be additive, they have to be parallel. i say there should be enough resources to make these policies: the commission has already we must ask the member states for less money, as you have said, and i think that is very correct. but in the document that the rapporteurs have prepared, for which i thank both the rapporteur on the own resources document and the rapporteur on the economic and financial framework, these resources are there, their identification is very clear, and the areas of work on which we must work have been identified. but we must be very careful and we must send a very clear message to the citizens that we do not want to raise taxes on the citizens, we do not want to raise taxes on the citizens, we do not want to impose new taxes on the citizens or even on small and mediumsized enterprises. what we want to do is to reorganise the european union's own resources system and have a fairer and more just europe on the financial system, a greener europe, a europe where financial transactions are finally taxed. i shall close, mr president, with reference to the times. you said that we need - and we absolutely agree with you - we need to close these two documents within this mandate, the new economic and financial framework and the own resources, but we need to close these documents quickly, but we also need to close them well, because we need the answers that will be given to the citizens and the perspectives that the citizens will have from 2021 to be really sufficient perspectives and answers, that are in abundance for the demands that companies and the world of research, development, and the citizens themselves make to us.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that when we talk about the new multiannual financial framework and own resources, we must keep two guiding principles in mind. the first principle is that there should be no increase in contributions for the member states, and above all that the gap should not be widened for those states which already contribute substantially to the european budget. and the second principle is about taxes: we do not want new taxes to come from europe and to be imposed on european citizens, because the eu has no legitimacy to impose new taxes. i regret to see that in the majority view on these two dossiers, these two principles risk not being respected. the member states are being asked to make a further effort, especially those which already make a significant contribution to the budget of the european union, and new european taxes are being hidden behind the name of 'own resources'. the co2 tax is a tax, the plastic tax is a tax, the financial transaction tax is a tax, and we know well the ability that multinationals have to reverse the additional costs that we impose on them on the end consumers. unfortunately, from this point of view, we will have to have a wider discussion, because the tendency, especially in the elections, of the peoples and citizens of europe is that they want less europe and more member states, and we must take this into account in the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share some of the comments made by the speakers in this plenary on the priorities of the next budget and the multiannual financial framework, namely youth unemployment, the management of the migration phenomenon and also the fight against global warming. the problem is that, in my view, before we ask the states, and therefore the taxpayers, the citizens, for more money, we should first of all make a serious assessment of the performance, and i am addressing myself to you, commissioner, who is a german and on this point should pay the utmost attention to how european taxpayers' money is spent, evaluate each individual programme to see whether it is producing results and is efficient, and make an internal spending review before we ask the states for more money, especially with the states which are currently having difficulties in managing public finances, not just because of them, as our colleague mr torvalds says from his position as a northern european member of parliament. but there are internal imbalances in the eurozone, which should be resolved before we actually go to ask for more resources and handle these budgetary issues. the heads of state must therefore find a solution to this problem, or the situation risks a total implosion, precisely because unemployment and the problems of demand cannot be solved by a european budget which has very little money. and we cannot have new taxes on own resources, because the european citizens do not want new taxes, they want financial speculation to be taxed, justly, they want large multinationals to be taxed, but they do not want to take on themselves the additional burdens that some bureaucrats here in brussels have in mind. so we must find a framework, which is obviously directed at the citizens, and not, as usual, at the big stakeholders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the four rapporteurs and say that in the face of the expectations of the citizens, in the face of the risks that have emerged from brexit, we must understand that the new mff has great political value. i think it is important instead to finally mobilise own resources, which are not just substitutes for, but also additives to, national funds, even though national funds, as some governments have said, can co-finance cohesion more, provided that investment is removed from the stability pact. but we can finally adopt a financial transaction tax, the web tax, and so not necessarily taxing citizens, but taxing the big aggregations that often evade not only taxes, but also evade the recognition of intellectual work, as in the digital field. but we must identify - who is right, the rapporteur in particular - the strategic priorities. the two sides to me are the youth and the culture. we are demonstrating every day how much hope there is in investing in young people, not only for europe but also for the future and sustainable development. it is true that we have asked for a tripling of the erasmus funds. we would like to see ten times that number, because today only 5% of young people can use this important tool, also for their future and their work. we also call for greater courage in cultural policies, for investment in the european resource of cultural heritage and in cultural and creative enterprises. we feel that they are still too marginal in the public debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian member of parliament i say no to the possibility of adding other taxes to the italian citizens. i am not saying that we should not have more european taxes, that we should not continue to feed the european wagon with taxes. if resources are to be recovered today, they must be recovered where europe throws away resources. this place, the double venue is an example of that, the waste we have seen to finance turkey, the waste we have seen to finance the culinary culture of insects! it is unthinkable to continue in this criminal direction. look, in this vase, there's a family: a mom, a dad and a baby. as you can see, the level of taxation in italy is drowning italian families. the child is drowned, the possibility of having children is drowned in our country. so we cannot think that in such a drastic, dramatic and terrible situation, other taxes, which you see as european taxes, would be added, that is, other european taxes would obviously harm italian families. italian families in sunday's elections asked for one simple thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the union needs a multiannual budget that is commensurate with the global challenges we have to face together, and for this we need adequate own resources. the eu and its member states remain the world's largest donor of development aid, and it is essential that the new multiannual budget lives up to the commitments made over these five years. let 's face it . the world has already changed a lot since the new sustainable development goals were adopted, the addis ababa agenda, the paris agreement, with big players coming out. the eu will either lead by example in implementing these objectives or they will remain on paper. the simplification of financial instruments is good, but only if the principles of policy coherence, transparency and aid effectiveness are fully respected, and if specific instruments for development and humanitarian aid are kept separate. trust funds are only acceptable for specific, limited-term objectives with proven added value. their use must not change the original objectives of the instruments, which, as far as cooperation is concerned, must be primarily the eradication of poverty and certainly not the stopping of migration flows. finally, let's face it: we need long-term investment in development to overcome global challenges, otherwise they will not lose more, we will all lose.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if i may just make a personal statement before we begin: i am very honoured to be opening this budget year and this first debate, and i will be honoured to be the rapporteur on the budget, and i would like to thank the example given to me by the rapporteurs of previous years - with whom i had the opportunity to work as a shadow rapporteur last year - mr mureșan, but also mr geier, mr fernandes and mrs gardiazabal. and of course i wish commissioner oettinger well, with whom i imagine we will be working in the coming weeks and months throughout the year. it is difficult, of course, to sum up in a few minutes the content of the guidelines on which we have worked in these weeks with our colleagues, and i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have worked fruitfully and frankly and fruitfully in these weeks to produce a document which can have the widest possible vote in this house. i shall only mention a few of them, because it is of course impossible to read the whole document and the whole text again. of course, we have a duty as a parliament, as the european union, to pay particular attention to those who are still suffering from the economic and financial crisis that has struck our continent, which has struck the whole world in recent years and on which perhaps not enough has been done. i am thinking in particular of the workers, i am thinking in particular of the young people, i am thinking of the small and mediumsized enterprises, which have often had to close or which are still in difficulty and which are trying to go on with great courage despite the crisis and despite the little reassurance and little intervention that has been given to them. i also think, and i would like to sum up my remarks on the subject of young people in particular, that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have already discussed this in connection with the debate on the next multiannual financial framework and the subject of own resources: we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples. that is why we need the youth initiative to be a well-funded initiative from next year, beyond the new financial framework, and to have real funding, commissioner, so that the initiatives can really be implemented in the member states. i am thinking of erasmus and erasmus+, which we must guarantee to all young people who ask to be admitted, because you said it very well, when you answered an italian colleague who has a somewhat distorted view of the european union: we need as many young people as possible to become part of this continent now. i'll just quickly go over two other elements: the european union is doing a great deal on defence, and we must of course do something about this, and we must also do something about migration. we must look at migration from the inside, and therefore be able to take in what is right to take in and have the resources to be able to take in, but we must also look outside and be able to prevent, in the long term, the phases of migration. two final points: i would also like to speak of the environment, of course, of the 20% of our financial framework to be devoted to the environment, and i would like to speak above all of a social europe. there are two budgets that go hand in hand: the first is the europe of investment, and the second is the europe which must stand by those citizens who cannot afford it, who are poorer, who have difficulty even in accessing health care, or who are unemployed. our states are not in a position to give answers and we must stand by our member states. the last two points: the first is a principle which we must accept, which is a fundamental principle of our parliament and which we want to take with us into the next negotiation. new resources and money must be provided for each new project. you gave the example of the kitchen earlier, commissioner, we are only the cooks and we are the kitchen. well, if this kitchen is asked for more courses, if this kitchen is asked for more dishes - i come to the conclusion right away, president - this kitchen must also have a kitchenette that has many more resources. finally, on the negotiations: if the commission - and i end by saying - is an ambitious commission, it will find this parliament, as you know, an absolute ally. if the council wants to negotiate from the start, it will find this parliament very ready to negotiate from the start. populism is not fought - look, president - populism is not fought with words only, but with policies and we can fight them with next year's budget too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the choices on the union's budget for 2019 will be made in parallel with the choices on the next multiannual financial framework and the reform of the own resources system. the search for an ambitious and comprehensive agreement is essential to have a positive impact on the parallel negotiations. the problems of security and unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, must be given priority. the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy, as well as those in the implementation of the programme to combat youth unemployment, are of concern. the increase in appropriations is good, but the synergies between this programme, the social fund and national budgets must be improved to avoid the youth employment initiative simply replacing national funding for neets. finally, a word on the fight against climate change and the green economy: at a time when the united states is no longer willing to meet its commitments to combat climate change, i believe that the 2019 budget should strengthen the union's frontline role, for example by providing additional financial support for the life programme.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can say that i agree with the last statement. europe must do more than in the past for its external and internal security, because the dangers and risks to our european citizens have not diminished but increased. pesco is a concept that is widely supported by member states and we will test the added value in defence research and defence industry with a pilot phase 2019/2020 and, building on the experience, include significantly more money in our proposal in the next budgetary framework 2021ff, with the request to advise and support it accordingly here as well. several colleagues have referred to the subject of youth work. i very much agree with you that the sustainable and further fight against youth unemployment is crucial for many young people in many regions of europe. we will therefore propose appropriate funding for the continuation of our projects in the 2019 budget. we note two points here: the first concerns the fact that in some member states, where these european funds should be and are welcome, absorption is far from being 100%. this means that we are not able to raise funds and turn them into projects and jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why i am particularly concerned about the issue of absorption and exploitation, because more resources are only meaningful if they are called upon and can be translated into jobs for young people through projects. we still have a considerable gap between the estimates of the appropriations and the use of the appropriations in many member states. the second issue will be discussed in the course of the negotiations with the council. you know, before i became responsible for the budget, there was the midterm review; that's your merit. and in this midterm review and revision, we have agreed with the youth work council to put 1.2 billion euros in additional funding on the way by the end of 2020. 2017 that was before my time 500 million was put into the budget. 2018 -- i was there -- we put in 350 million. on the way to 1.2 billion, we now have the remaining amount of 350 million. if you divide it into two years, you cannot increase the funds much. if we use them next year, we'll have a problem in 2020. the question therefore remains: is the ceiling of 1.2 billion set by the council binding, or can we think again about changes, reshuffling or increases? we shall certainly come back to this in the trilogue and the conciliation in the autumn. a small addition: a case of rothaus beer, tannins, costs 19.60 euros. that's eight boxes, not 13 as you'd have thought.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian i can speak about the cost of wine, more than the cost of beer, but i would like to return to the subject. i do not know whether i have been blessed by god, as mr deprez said, but the discussion was certainly very, very useful, and i was pleased to hear the european commissioner's opening and closing remarks, as well as those of my colleagues who emphasized those points which i was not able to go into in my initial report. i would like to say that we have two duties, and this is clear from the discussion we had this afternoon and from the objectives we set ourselves, which are not always the same, they change from year to year but they always follow the same line. the two objectives are to give growth and development to our businesses and our continent, and on the other hand to make our european citizens a little more secure. i think mrs gardiazabal has mentioned that we have a duty, which the member states have also assumed, to give substance to the so-called social pillar of the european union. i believe that we will be able, with the work of the commission, with the work of parliament - and as i said we are ready to start working immediately - and i hope also with the work of the council, to give answers to these two problems. for the moment, i think we're on the right track. as usual, the problems arise around 27-28 july, when the council presents its first draft of the draft budget presented by the commission. let's hope this year the job is a little easier. for the time being i thank all the members who have spoken for the suggestions i have noted, as has the commissioner, and we will work on the basis of the guidelines which this parliament will vote on tomorrow.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 february the united nations security council adopted resolution 2401 calling for an immediate ceasefire to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid and the evacuation of the sick and wounded from the conflict zones. the impact of this resolution on the ground: i'm not sure. assad's offensive in east ghouta and idlib and the turkish one in afrin have not stopped for a moment. the latest news is that thousands of civilians are fleeing the afrin region, with turkish troops poised to lay siege to the city. a possible catastrophe in the city of douma, with the imminent attack of government troops and the bombing of residential areas in idlib, including a day care center. at the same time, political initiatives are being taken. the geneva process is effectively stalled, the de-escalation zones envisaged by the astana process have never been implemented. more and more, the real dividing lines are being established. not one, but many syrians, all looking for the biggest slice. and while i hope that the brussels conference on 4 and 5 april will help to unblock the situation in some way, i fear that it will be a simple reminder of the ineffectiveness of diplomacy and the international community, which have been ineffective and irrelevant so far. the truth is that the various forces on the ground in syria are playing a lethal chess game, each pursuing their own strategic interests, united only by a complete disregard for civilian lives. under the false premise of fighting terrorism, alliances and realities are changing in a whirlwind. it is enough to think of the paradoxical relationship between the united states and turkey, until yesterday historical nato allies, of which they are the first and second armies, now in a geopolitical opposition such as to cause the generals of an america that is becoming less and less a superpower to sound warnings about a possible turkish advance, beyond afrin and towards manbij. in syria, the end justifies the means, the guns are roaring and reason is silent in this tragic and chaotic situation, where diplomacy has so far blatantly failed. with the spectre of an unintended escalation still looming, i want to issue a call and a warning: assad and erdogan, i ask you to show a little bit of responsibility and even humanity; the european union is committed to the principle of non-refoulement and to the principle of non-refoulement. and to all the actors on the ground, who are oblivious to the tragic human consequences of relationships, i say: and you're walking on the edge of the abyss, and it's a slippery slope, and once it slips, what you're in for is a long, long fall.
thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative mogherini, unfortunately we are once again in this house talking about syria: the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the syrian people are suffering from a civil war, that there is no solution to the civil war that has brought the syrian people to their knees, that there are tensions between the countries of the middle east, that the un security council has consistently ignored calls for a ceasefire, that humanitarian aid continues to be blocked or filtered through by the regime and that it is unfortunately unable to reach the suffering people. so what can we europeans do about it? we must return to the centre and try to compensate for the lack of initiative in the united states. we must make up for the gradual disengagement of some member states, which only on paper maintain unconditional support for the syrian opposition, and we must strongly support the un and above all the next conference on the future of syria in april, which must be a fundamental turning point, let us say, let us put it all together, high representative mogherini. to achieve a peace agreement, we must give a strong push, we must make our european commitment, not just his, but that of all the european chancelleries, a win-win bet in the interests of the syrian people and in the interests of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate - it has already been said - how this instrument which we adopted here, ratified last summer, is a fundamental instrument, ladies and gentlemen. it is essential for many reasons, some of them very important, which have been well explained by commissioner mogherini, but also for other reasons, i would say a little more profound. because history has taught us that isolation always helps extremism and never helps populations that are always penalized by the lack of dialogue. and for another equally important reason, i believe, because dialogue is the only way to strengthen positive trends and to counter negative trends, even more so in the field of human rights. so i can only express my appreciation, my thanks, i would even like to say to commissioner mogherini for the important work she has already done, for the new season of relations she has inaugurated, for this capacity for strong dialogue, because i want to say and i have concluded that dialogue is the only possibility... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, in january 1959 the 26th of july movement overthrew the batista regime and ushered in the first socialist state in latin america. today, nearly 60 years later, cuba is preparing to open a new chapter in its history. the eu-cuba cooperation and dialogue agreement is a first step towards a future of closer ties between cubans and europeans, a strong signal of sustainable development and cooperation against the short-sighted policy of donald trump, who is determined to perpetuate an anachronistic blockade with unacceptable consequences. i therefore agree, high representative, with the words you said in havana: we must build bridges and open doors through cooperation and dialogue, allowing cuba to emerge from isolation and open up to the world. our hand is outstretched, but let us remember that it is a two-step process. the european union expects cuba to give concrete answers, in deeds and not in words, especially in the field of respect for human rights and the role of civil society, which must be able to operate freely. it will be up to us in this house to ensure that the steering wheel remains straight towards the defence of the rights of the cuban people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, central asia is a region in transition, a strategic partner for europe. it is an area where our action can make a difference, where we have achieved a number of results, such as the near eradication of child labour in uzbekistan in the textile sector, also thanks to the work of this parliament. in view of the new strategy, in addition to the economic and trade opportunities which have just been consolidated by the ratification of the partnership with kazakhstan, we must continue cooperation in the field of institution building, the fight against corruption, but above all we must pay renewed attention to the social aspects and human rights, on which there is still much to be done, as the many cases of political persecution show. i am thinking for example of maks bokaev and iskander erimbetov, specifically in kazakhstan. a stable and resilient central asia is crucial, given the security challenges posed by the afghan border, or for example by the water control clashes. in this respect, the new impetus for infraregional cooperation is certainly to be encouraged and is in europe's interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 annual growth survey data confirm some of the trends: the european economy is recovering in all countries, the benefits of this recovery are distributed extremely unequally within society, and there are still very strong regional and territorial disparities within the union. the objective of the european semester is to ensure convergence and stability in the european union by coordinating the economic policies of its member states. but this objective remains a mere paper document if it is not accompanied by real benefits for the citizens, just as economic growth without a reduction in poverty, precariousness, social exclusion, an increase in wage levels and an improvement in the conditions of the most vulnerable groups is purely theoretical. we use this data to make policies that are tailored to the needs of society and we do not allow the european semester to be just accounting and bureaucracy. without greater convergence and social cohesion there can be no future for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message today must be very clear: trade wars are not the answer to the growing and legitimate demand for workers' protection. trade wars harm the very citizens they are promised protection. in the face of a slight increase in employment in steel mills, the measures may create a net loss of at least 140 000 jobs in the united states, with the workers in steel and aluminium derivatives companies being the first to suffer. in response to the tariffs, tariffs on american exports may be raised, and again the cost will be borne by american workers and consumers with less work and higher costs. we europeans must not be dragged into this escalation. we must fight to keep from reaching a world of walls. at the same time, our response must be firm: it must be clear that everyone, including president trump, is called upon to abide by the rules and eliminate all distorted behaviour for fair competition. the commission has done well in maintaining this balanced stance. it will be essential for all the member states to act in a united and united manner. it is an opportunity to show that the european union is strong and can be the most responsible in promoting a fair and sustainable global order. today more than ever we need to work at the world trade organization to instill in trade the values of reciprocity and fairness. global problems require global solutions, and that is why we are calling for a global approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, precisely because i believe in trade, i believe that customs duties are an important instrument when used against countries that do not play by the rules. but the problem here is that trump's steel and aluminum tariffs will also apply to those countries that have always followed the rules, such as those in europe that produce without unfair competition to the americans. and so these are not tariffs that were created to protect the american economy, but they are tariffs that are needed to get something else. yes, because the americans have already made it clear that they will take them away if we invest more in nato and military spending, perhaps by buying weapons or other f-35s, or if we lower our food quality laws, perhaps by allowing more gmos, glyphosate, hormone-treated meat and so on in europe. international trade, commissioner, should be encouraged when it brings prosperity and restricted when it harms the economy, but it should never be used as an excuse to achieve something else. we must not give in to the united states on the precautionary principle, but we must also avoid at all costs this escalation into a trade war which will only harm our citizens and our producers. europe must therefore find alternative solutions to make the americans understand that we are still their allies, but we do not give in to blackmail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reaction to trump's tariffs is incredible. the hysterical ones of the super lobby in davos, but even more grotesque are those of communist china, which has become the champion of free trade. and then there is the strong reaction of germany and mrs merkel, when the cause of all this is germany, the super-exporter, with a surplus of 287 billion, in clear contradiction to european rules. the lesson we must learn from this is that free trade is a crippling myth, which produces that is wars, and also poverty. germany has made a huge trade surplus, imposing things that have made its exports hypercompetitive, low wages and a low exchange rate of the euro against the dollar. so instead of anti-us countermeasures, germany is instead committed to reducing its trade surplus. the eu should launch a safeguard procedure on steel and aluminium imports as soon as possible to protect eu companies from the influx of products from highly competitive countries such as china, brazil, korea and india, which, in the face of new us tariffs, will undoubtedly be dumped on the european market. and we defend our production, as in the case of embraco, which you leave alone! don't you want to talk about the embrace? it's a disgrace! no more transferring production to the detriment of the protection of our workers! shame on you! let's defend the cloak!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i think you are right in pointing out the commitment and the attempt to avoid any escalation and crisis in trade relations with the united states. but i think the most interesting and most important aspect, and at the same time dramatic, is to prevent europe from facing, through the responsibility of trump, through the responsibility of these tariffs, a crisis that could arise, because only in 2017 we had to deal with exaggerated imports, especially in the steel sector, the steel industry, which comes from non-european countries. i believe that this is a real attack on the european trading system. i believe that this attack must be met with diplomatic dialogue, with the search for solutions which will prevent the disaster of a real crisis, but at the same time i strongly agree with the commission's commitment to be firm in respect of the safeguard clauses it intends to adopt.
the agenda includes a discussion with the prime minister of portugal, antónio costa, on the future of europe (2018/2576 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to mr antónio costa, i would remind you that it is possible to request the 'catch-the-eye' by using the electronic voting machine. to submit your request, please insert your ballot card and use any of the electronic voting buttons. i now proceed to open the system which will remain open during the speech by prime minister costa.
mr. prime minister, thank you for being here. as you know, the european parliament has decided to be at the heart of the debate on the future of europe. that's why we've invited all the prime ministers to talk to us. it will not be a formal sitting, it will be a real political debate with you, and i am pleased to welcome back to our house antónio costa, former member of the european parliament, this time as prime minister. he's an old colleague, so he'll be comfortable with us. a big thank you and good work to you in portugal, a country which is very important for the european union, especially as regards strengthening the dialogue with africa and latin america. you are welcome to your home as a former member of this parliament, and i will give you the floor now.
the debate with the presidents-in-office on behalf of the political groups is now beginning. please respect the time allotted to you to allow as many members as possible to speak in this debate and then to allow antónio costa to give his replies. the arguments are many and i am glad that you have supported the european parliament's position on own resources. we have made some proposals, the web tax, the financial speculation tax and the environmental tax. i now turn to mr manfred weber on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
we may disagree, mr. bütikofer, but let's move on with the debate. the word is on.
mr. epitideios, please conclude. if you talk beyond your allotted time, you are taking time away from your colleagues, so i think it is in everyone's interest to have more space within this debate. now, the floor to prime minister costa. i also ask him to be brief in his answers so that there can be as many speeches as possible. he understood italian too.
i'm going to the hospital. here's your request. well, then, mr rangel.
who wants to talk? a little information, though, before you intervene. it was respected in proportion, in the "catch-the-eye", the proportion... sorry, i didn't do the calculations, all the services did the calculations based on the proportion of the groups, based on the numbers of the groups. it's not my whim, so please, your honor. so this is the data, you can come and count it, and i'll tell you how many there were, so it was done by proportion. by the ratio, there were four... we cannot have a debate on portugal. please, sir.
i would be happy to answer that, your honour. mr. zorrinho, i'd be happy to answer your question. the numbers - if you let me answer - i will tell you what happened because at least you know what happened - the numbers are, for the participants in the 'catch-the-eye', in proportion to the size of the political groups, if in the group of the european people's party there were no other parliamentarians than the portuguese, it is not my responsibility, i had to let the group of the european people's party speak, so much so that i had given the floor to mr gardini, who was registered and not registered, i just respected the proportions that are there, but for me we can go on, if you want to postpone the vote, for me we can also let all the registered speak. i have no problem with that. i can stay here if you want to vote at one o'clock. if you want, we can sit here for another hour and debate. it's not my problem. mr. zorrinho, if you want to say something, but mr. costa will know how to defend himself, not that he has a problem.
the prime minister of your country had all the time he could in his speech to explain the work of the government. he has spoken at length and i am now giving him the opportunity to answer all the questions, so i do not think that prime minister antónio costa has any qualms about answering the criticisms that have come from parliamentarians from other countries. (end of the 'catch the eye' procedure) i'll give the floor to prime minister costa, please.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
following the death of mr jens nilsson, parliament has declared his seat vacant with effect from 13 march 2018, in accordance with rule 4 (1) and (6) of its rules of procedure. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
mr ferreira, all the groups were given proportionate space, i was flexible with all the groups, but i do not think your group would have had to do more. mr president, you may say no, but that is the situation. you may disagree, i respect your disagreement, but the math is done, it's done by the services, so it's not up to me. it depends only on the situation in the house. the competent authorities of the hellenic republic have sent me a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr georgios kyrtsos in order to bring criminal proceedings against him before the court of first instance of athens. in accordance with the rules of procedure, this request was referred to the parliament's committee on legal affairs, which is responsible for the matter.
let us now proceed to the vote. let us begin with the guidelines for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom.
i thank mr benito ziluaga for his speech, but we are now voting on the guidelines for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. his comment was on a vote after the one we are about to take.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have treated a patient with expired medicines that have worsened his condition and we are still going to go on with the same prescription? this is what the report says: the focus is on budgetary constraints, insufficient implementation of european governance rules and failure of member states to implement structural reforms. but not a word is said about the inadequacy of the austerity measures which have suffocated european citizens and businesses. at the same time, it calls for further efforts and sacrifices for fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, but there is no push on social policies and measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance, nor is there any reference to corrective action to manage macroeconomic imbalances caused by excessive trade surpluses, as in germany. now, if it is human to make mistakes, it is quite another thing to persevere, and i think it was absolutely necessary to give a new direction to the political choices and to abandon the path which has brought parts of europe to its knees. i therefore vote against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 19 million people out of work in europe, with unemployment rates that are absolutely worrying. the fact that 119 million europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion is completely unacceptable. the fragmentation of the labour market, precarious forms of contract, which are unprotected, self-serving and completely useless for future employment, and the presence, not only in italy, of the phenomenon of the corporate sector, require effective and long-term measures from the european union and the governments of the member states. i appreciate that the report puts more emphasis on the social aspects and therefore emphasizes adequate social protection through minimum income or an unemployment benefit scheme. unfortunately, however, there are also critical issues, ranging from the supposed need for further structural reforms, to the continued cage of the stability and growth pact, to the increase in the retirement age. it is precisely in this respect that we had to vote 'no'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the growing opportunities for connectivity and the dissemination of information, the increasing use of digital products and services and the internet of things are having a positive impact on every aspect of our daily lives. on the other hand, they also expose public services to new risks and increase their vulnerability, because they are able to cross borders and frontiers. the theft of sensitive data, the increasing number of cases of payment fraud, the dissemination of illegal content and the large-scale cyber attacks that have filled the headlines show that our societies are still not sufficiently equipped to defend against these risks. the nis directive was the first measure on cybersecurity, with the aim of ensuring the resilience of strategic infrastructures and increasing their coordination in preventing and responding to cyber threats: the commission has already taken a step forward, and we can already see the benefits, but it cannot meet the challenges because of the reluctance of the member states. one year after the adoption of the network security directive, we have another opportunity in these months to strengthen the cybersecurity system, and to do so in a coordinated way through a new european act that we are working on, which will have to achieve two ambitious objectives. the first is to strengthen the european union's cybersecurity agency, enisa, with more resources and operational powers. the second: the creation of a new pan-european certification system to ensure the security of digital products and services, thus increasing the trust of consumers who use connected goods and services every day. only investing in resources and expertise in this area will ensure that the digital single market is able to deliver a more secure and reliable system for citizens and businesses.
in writing. there are many reasons for social alarm that can be fuelled by cybercrime. some of these issues have been raised in the various speeches by the rapporteurs during this debate, and all require attention and concrete action, starting with the implementation of the directive on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. on the other hand, as already pointed out in this parliament's resolution on the fight against corruption and as a follow-up to the crim resolution, cybercrime is a frequently used means of money laundering and counterfeiting. this form of crime therefore constitutes a significant source of income for many criminal groups and, for these reasons too, union legislation and cooperation between member states and with union agencies in this area needs to be strengthened. we cannot ignore the fact that, through the fraudulent use of the internet for illegal purposes, such as the promotion of drug trafficking or human trafficking, criminal organizations have succeeded in greatly expanding the volume of their illicit trafficking, also endangering the security of citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was part of the parliament's delegation to slovakia last week and what happened to ján kuciak and his fiancée martina has struck everyone hard. as a first recommendation, we must strongly encourage independent investigations and also strong cooperation with the international police, especially the italian police, given the possible implications of the mafia and organized crime. the italian police have a lot of information on this and it would be good to involve them in the whole investigation. the committee on budgetary control will also look into the question of the use of the structural funds, especially in the field of agriculture and development, since there may also be links there to possible fraud or the need for greater transparency. finally, we are using this moment to try to demand the implementation of a procedure that will bring investigative journalism under strong protection, and the crime of mafia association to be something not only understood in italy, but also in the rest of the countries of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the brutal murder of ján kuciak and his partner, which took place six months after the execution of daphne caruana galizia, two journalists who had reported on cases of corruption and fraud in their countries, is not just a heinous crime, but a real attack on freedom of the press, on the right of citizens to know the truth and therefore on democracy itself. for these reasons, in the face of these tragic events, thorough investigations are needed, characterized by the utmost impartiality, to clarify the responsibilities and causes of these murders. but more generally, and precisely to prevent threats, reprisals and vicious attacks, it is necessary to protect the freedom, independence and pluralism of the media, finally establishing a european regulatory framework to protect whistleblowers and investigative journalists who, too often, still today, are forced by their work, which is to expose abuses and corruption, to expose themselves and their families to serious risks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, taxing multinationals in a fair way and where they receive their revenues is certainly a fair and acceptable principle, but let us note some points in this provision. we must tax and control multinational companies, not small and micro-enterprises which already today struggle to comply with all the administrative burdens they already have in carrying out their business. so, implementing this measure for all companies is dangerous and counterproductive. and the second point must be very clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not drained from the member states. taxation is a competence which remains with the member states and these measures must not be linked to any own resources to be channelled into the european budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that recent tax scandals have exposed the race to cut taxes in many countries, including unfortunately the european union, which has caused a loss of revenue to the public finances of between eur 50 and 70 billion per year. the big digital multinationals - and not just them - are the main beneficiaries, exploiting the differences, asymmetries and complexities of member states' tax systems, as well as ad hoc agreements. the losers are the citizens of europe. parliament is putting forward a bold proposal in its simplicity. the harmonization of the tax base provided for in the texts under discussion basically requires two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax system is not distorted. i am also pleased to note that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has wanted to maintain attention to the deductibility of retained earnings transferred to reserves by cooperative enterprises and cooperative consortia, and the possibility of allocating part of the resources from an eu tax on the common tax base to the european budget to reduce direct national contributions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the current international economic environment, the challenge for member states is to ensure that income from economic activities is taxed where value is created. this is particularly the case for large multinational companies that can easily transfer profits to member states with lower tax rates. existing corporate tax systems reflect the economic realities of the last century, in which companies had a clear link with the local market. the directives we have today are designed to create a common basis for taxation in the union of certain companies, so that taxable profits will have to be divided between the member states in which the company operates. this may prove to be a powerful tool in the fight against aggressive tax planning, but to allow new legislation to realise its full potential, greater cooperation between national tax administrations is needed, which is also crucial for the capital markets union, the digital single market and the investment plan for europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the substance of this parliament's proposal is even more ambitious than i expected at the beginning of the debate. i must say that what is contained is certainly something very progressive, which goes in the context of the fight against inequality in the field of taxation. multinational companies must pay taxes where they carry out economic activities. there are still some small problems, in my view, which can become big ones, for example the 750 million turnover threshold which will affect only 10% of multinationals, if eliminated after seven years, it will affect all companies. a technical study of this is needed, and the commission should apply it, so that it is applied with a threshold of around 50 million euro, because it would affect multinationals, and then exclude small companies which might have difficulties in applying and transposing this matter. and we could agree on own resources, but we must not increase the resources that the member states have to transfer to the union budget. so i am in full agreement, provided that this does not impose any additional burden on the states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after steel and aluminium, spanish table olives may be only the first of a series of european agri-food excellences to fall victim to the vicious trade war launched by the us administration. the decision of the american authorities is surreal if we consider that spanish producers are accused of exporting below market prices because of direct aid under the common agricultural policy. a policy which, unlike the us farm bill, has long since decided to eliminate all distortive aid, making the european union one of the few trading blocs in the world able to boast of almost total compliance with the wto's green box agricultural policies. our farmers, after the crisis caused by the russian embargo, are now in danger of losing a market which, with a total export volume of over 20 billion euros last year, is the most important trading partner of the european union. it is therefore all the more necessary, commissioner, that a discussion table be reopened immediately with the us authorities in order to avoid further serious repercussions on the european agri-food sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most worrying aspect of this is that the us countervailing duty investigation is targeting the support measures provided for in the cap. i would remind you that the cap has undergone a transformation as a result of numerous reforms designed to bring most of the support measures into line with the wto's green box, and it is still designed to ensure full compliance with the wto agreements themselves. the us decision therefore unfairly and arbitrarily calls into question the totality of the european union's support programmes for agriculture, with possible consequences for all the beneficiaries of the cap. the commission must cooperate with the spanish authorities to protect the companies affected by this aggressive protectionist measure, which, if made permanent, would have an estimated economic impact on spanish olive growers of eur 350 to 700 million over the next 5-10 years. the commission should also take all necessary measures, both bilaterally and within the wto, to defend the cap support system.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for bringing this up and for continuing to support the commission in our efforts in this matter. we share your concerns and i do not accept the accusation that the commission has been silent on this. since the very first day, we have raised it with our american partners in different ways. there have been letters and personal meetings where we have raised it with the relevant ministers. we have raised it over the telephone. we continue to raise it, and some of my colleagues are doing the same because we share the view not only that this is a disaster for andalucía, and the producers there, but also that the anti-subsidy part of those investigations raises serious systemic issues, which might affect not only spanish farmers but also the entire eu support granted to farmers across the eu under the common agricultural policy. we have made that point, very clear. so we will continue to defend eu agricultural policy until the end of this investigation, at both the technical and the political level. we have worked very closely with the spanish government on this. only this morning i had contact with the spanish minister. we have also worked with the authorities from andalucía. we offered support for the written and oral intervention that spain made on this. we also offered assistance during the us verification. that was declined, as it was not needed, but we continue to work very closely with spain and with andalucía. we will continue to exert pressure on the us authorities until the end of this because we firmly believe – as you too have said, honourable members – that these subsidies are totally in compliance with the rules of the world trade organization (wto). as you know, we also had a discussion this morning on steel. this discussion is not easy, given the us administration’s protectionist attitude towards international trade. if our efforts should fail we will carefully analyse the situation. we expect a final decision in june and we will weigh all possible options to challenge a measure, including in the wto. we will, of course, do so in close cooperation with the spanish government. i would like to thank the house for continuing to exert pressure in this matter. we will to continue to follow it very closely.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i’m happy to talk tonight about corporate social responsibility. it’s an issue that is dear to my heart personally and to this commission especially, and i know that many european citizens that you represent also attach great importance to this. i’m happy to update you where we stand on this. the european union, including the member states, have a great track record on corporate social responsibility. i would say that it’s one of the best track records in the world. we have led, our member states have led and a very large number of our businesses have led, including our small and medium-sized enterprises. and this is not only about ethics and respect for others and the environment, it is about long-term sustainable growth and profits for business: shareholder value. the commission has recognised from the start that the eu has a valuable role to play here. we can facilitate the implementation of csr principles, bringing together companies from across different industries and individual sectors to find common solutions. we can incentivise it, including by setting benchmarks and other requirements, and we can also, if necessary, legislate. in 2011 we issued a communication setting out a range of actions. among others, these actions have aimed to enhance the visibility of csr and disseminate good practices; improve company disclosure of social and environmental information; further integrate csr into education, training and research; emphasise the importance of national and sub-national csr policies; and better align european and global approaches to corporate social responsibilities. we have adopted policies right across our work, from development to agriculture, to labour rights, to justice. a major step forward was the 2015 directive on non-financial disclosure. this allows shareholders to have proper disclosure and put pressure on companies to change practices if necessary, and i would say that our work has delivered results. in 2014 we carried out a major consultation on csr. it showed that over two thirds of the respondents were happy with what we have delivered, and that is not just only public sector engagement. of course there’s always more to be done, and that’s why during this mandate the work has continued. we have continued to mainstream csr across our policies. in the last year we adopted a revised shareholders’ right directive. we have been giving effect to our new public procurement legislation, paying attention to social and environmental elements, and we are working to finalise guidelines on socially-responsible public procurement. and of course, we adopted here the conflict minerals regulation – we will discuss that tomorrow; i’ll be happy to give you an update then – to ensure responsible trade in four minerals: tin tantalum, tungsten and gold. and only last week we adopt an action plan on sustainable finance. on the basis of the recommendations set out by the high-level expert group on the subject, the commission is setting out a roadmap to boost the role of finance in achieving well-performing economy that delivers on environmental and social goals. that is just the tip of the iceberg of what we have been doing. we are continuing to engage with business and stakeholders. whilst public authorities, of course, have a role to play, the final responsibility must always be with the businesses themselves. csr must be in their dna. and we are continuing to engage internationally, both through multilateral fora such as the un and oecd, and of course bilaterally. we have been developing a good dialogue with japan, for instance, on these issues, and i expect us to develop more such dialogues, because we want other countries to come up to our levels. it has been increasingly clear that there is no dividing line between csr and our wider work on implementing the united nations sustainable development goals. if you act against companies using timber that has been illegally logged, that is an issue both of the csr and the sdgs. if you act against the import of materials produced in sweatshop conditions in a third country, that is an issue of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development goals, and it’s true of our work on business and human rights as well. so under this commission, we are taking a holistic and integrated approach. we are putting our work at the heart of our implementation of the sdgs. whether you label them csr or sdg doesn’t really matter; the matter is of course that you take the most effective and proportionate action to address a situation. that can be through legislation, but it can also be through promoting industry-led standards. under our 2016 communication on sdgs we have set up a multi-stakeholder platform, made up of stakeholders from business, trade unions, ngos and others, and i expect that within this platform there will be a working group on csr. that started its work in january only, and it continues to meet. it will give us valuable input and ideas how to take this work further. we have encouraged it to look at the progress we have already achieved and give us advice on what more needs to be done. so we are looking very much forward to receive the input, carrying on also our own stocktaking exercise of what has been done and what more can be done, and the result of this work will feed into the autumn communication of the sdgs. so with this, i hope i updated you on an issue i know is very important to you as well, and i’m looking forward to the discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your report. i would just like you to be very clear, commissioner, that today's discussion of corporate social responsibility was prompted by a specific case, which was the subject of an oral question co-signed by 69 italian meps, on a specific case called the embraco case. i also want to thank the delegation of embraco workers who have joined us after 15 hours by bus from italy this morning and who are following our work. because, commissioner, the situation is this: embraco is a company that is in italy, that is in piedmont, it is a company that is part of the whirlpool group, and it is a company that, although it is not going through a crisis, but has a favorable economic situation, decides to move and decides to relocate. the problem is that it decides to move not outside the european union but within the european union, namely to slovakia, where the cost of labour is lower. we must therefore understand, commissioner, what the commission's position is. one, whether it is acceptable for a company that is doing well to move and put the 500 workers who are being laid off to move elsewhere in crisis. two, if this is anywhere else in europe. europe was created to create wealth, not to move it from one country to another. and thirdly, and lastly, commissioner, we must find out whether these european countries have used european funds to create conditions which make it easier for these companies to move, because that would be very serious, because this is the money of european citizens, including those citizens, those 500 workers, who are now in danger of losing their jobs. like them, the italia online group, also in piedmont, is putting another 500 jobs at risk. i believe that if europe is to be credible, it must have a clear voice in this matter.
i would like to express my solidarity with the workers of embraco who are here in turin fighting for their jobs, and also with the workers of italia online who are suffering the same hardships as these workers at the same time and on the same days. but we must also be very clear, because this oral question which we have tabled today and this debate were to end with a resolution, a resolution of parliament asking the commission for very specific measures. unfortunately, tomorrow we will not have a vote in this parliament because of the european people's party and because of the right wing, which have not wanted to take responsibility, together with us, for the citizens, the workers. because we wanted to make a resolution asking the commission first of all to give precise answers on what is happening with the european structural funds, whether these structural funds are being used by some countries to allow relocation, we wanted to ask the commission to take stock of how companies work and how companies respect social responsibility, and we also wanted to ask the commission to respond on what is happening in these specific cases. unfortunately, that cannot happen tomorrow. i am convinced that europe has done a lot in the last three or four years, it has done it for business and it has also done it to create jobs, but it is time for europe, the european commission and the council to start taking an interest in the interests of workers too.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the location of companies is a wide one, and it arises from a system which we have built, the system of globalisation, an open and free market which is sovereign over everything. but the problem is also how the european union responds to these kinds of problems and how it responds to the workers of whirlpool and embraco who are here listening to this debate today. and we as a parliament may not have the responsibility to give concrete answers, but at least we could have had a resolution saying how we want to respond to these kinds of problems. we will not have a resolution tomorrow, because we have taken a month to think about it, a resolution which should have fixed points to say what the answers to these problems are, for example, a common minimum tax which is shared by all the countries to prevent countries from competing with each other by stealing companies and for example a clear, clean and correct use of european funds to prevent companies taking these funds from then fleeing to another country, which is precisely what is happening all the time. these are the answers that the embraco workers may have wanted to hear today, but which they will not get tomorrow.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, rather than discussing the social responsibility of enterprises, we should be discussing the social responsibility of europe this evening. because, as my colleagues have already explained, the fact that embraco is trying to move to slovakia and send 500 workers home is a problem, not so much because this company needs to move for some reason, because it is already active, the problem is that it is the very structure of europe that allows and encourages this behaviour. and it is useless to find palliative solutions, we must solve the problem at its root. perhaps bratislava used european funds to encourage tax relief, but that would not be the case, and that is not the point. slovakia is more competitive than italy also because, although it is part of the euro, it has lower taxation and lower labour costs. if europe is going to encourage the movement of capital between such different countries, it should at least assess the impact on employment and the economy, and of course implement concrete compensatory measures for people who lose their jobs. the european response is too weak, and that does not surprise me, since we are not even able to reach a compromise here in the european parliament and vote tomorrow on a resolution on the embraco case. and i would like the workers here to know that they have to thank the obstructionism of the people's party, the ecr, the alde, who are trying to erase all reference to the embraco case. in nine months' time the truce negotiated in favour of the workers of embraco will be over, and these 500 people who are here tonight, 500 families, will once again be faced with the spectre of unemployment. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. europe must put an end to fiscal and social competition between its countries, otherwise it will start a race to the bottom where we will all lose.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of bad faith in this debate, the bad faith of those who have forgotten that they voted lightly for the extension of europe to these eastern countries, which have very different and competitive social legislation and economic production. we have started a war between peoples, instead of making europe of peoples, for the interests of those who wanted to exploit this enlargement to the east for financial reasons. so, commissioner malmström, you do not have to come here and tell us the usual lies about how to respond to these crises, as you have done for years. you must recognize the very serious mistakes that this europe of bankers has made. you have elected the theoretician of tax evasion, the multinational, as president of this european government, who obviously wants to continue with you to implement these policies of overwhelming the real economy of those who work and produce, the small entrepreneurs and the workers who have it in that place, it is a shame, you should be ashamed in front of these people, instead of continuing to play your games, with your accomplices who do not even have the courage to write in the resolutions the name of this factory, the name, because in my turin the word worker is written with a capital "o", shame! (the speaker taps on the table during his speech. mr šojdrová asked to put a question, but the speaker left the chamber as soon as he had finished speaking).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. colleague, i would like to ask you i hope it was a translation error i would like to ask you to apologize to the people you called "only spectators". i would like you to realize that these are first and foremost people who are losing their jobs because of these rules, which are actually in the treaties: you spoke of freedom of establishment. i would like to know what wealth is created in a european union by taking away the jobs and livelihoods of 500 families and moving them elsewhere, from your point of view.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, there is a tragedy affecting 497 italian workers. they could be from any other european country. what matters is that they are in danger because the european rules are not enough. jacques delors first spoke of social responsibility in the 1993 white paper, calling for responsible business behaviour and asking parliament, even then, to define rules that were effective. we don't have those rules today. it is true that the social responsibility directives have been rewritten several times, and we have done so recently. but there is a vulnus: are not mandatory. and when these rules are merely optional and only call into question the reputation of the companies that do not comply with them, what we are commenting on happens. because whirlpool and embraco have these beautiful volumes, they publish every year, about their social responsibility, they say that their activities are sustainable, that they are socially and environmentally responsible. it's not like that! they say they have a good relationship with the territories and the associations that organize and represent them. it's not like that! the rules on social responsibility need to be changed. i think that a political act would be very useful. the commission should intervene on whirlpool. the facts, even the small or seemingly small ones, are much more important than many statements of principle. if you call the company and ask the company to change direction, to put things back where they belong, you've made an exception to the rule, but a political act that many people will take note of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the workers at embraco-whirlpool are not only facing the prospect of being laid off next december, they have also seen their wages cut by 300 euros, they no longer have a cafeteria, they have to eat cold food, they no longer have the means to go to work, they go to work with their own means and pay for it themselves. this is a very serious matter. so we demand, in addition to the unity on the resolution that we must make, very strongly, that any negative initiative against the workers be stopped, suspended, cancelled. because we have to stop tax shopping in europe, wage shopping, we cannot talk about this: it's very serious! what is the social responsibility towards people aged 55-58? it's hard to find work at this age. there's a very easy flexibility in going out, but it's very difficult to have a chance of going in and relocating. so this is social rubber, it is taken and carried, perhaps even with regional or even european union public funds. we must stop any negative action against these workers who were sent away for nothing more than applause. this is very serious, mr president!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening to embraco is called social dumping for lower wages, fiscal dumping for lower rates, and it is deplorable and irresponsible behaviour because it is not aimed at enhancing human resources but at laying off workers. embraco, which has in the past benefited from public support and funding, declares that it adheres to a code of ethics and the principles of the united nations global compact, unless it demonstrates a business practice that is far from being based on the principles of social responsibility. the social responsibility of enterprises must become a fundamental element of european policies and a prerequisite for access to public funds and for participation in public procurement. european funds cannot be used to transfer jobs. i therefore expect the european commission to take exemplary action if it is confirmed that the incentives put in place by the slovak government constitute a breach of the state aid rules. public subsidies must not in any way benefit some member states at the expense of others within the single market.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can be satisfied with the work we have done. we will have an effective regulatory tool for identifying, understanding and communicating skills and qualifications. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, the european union's policy on the environment and the european union's policy on the environment. the new regulatory framework will therefore have positive effects for european citizens studying and seeking work, as well as for employers and educational and training institutions, thus promoting transparency and mobility. i would like to remind you that much remains to be done in the field of education, training and employment, especially for the younger generation. governments need to invest heavily in long-term education and literacy policies, and labour policies need to aim at ensuring stable, quality and well-paid jobs, avoiding short-term buffer measures that are only good for the election campaign.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of the committees on culture and employment and the shadow rapporteurs, and i would also like to thank them for the excellent agreement reached with the commission and the council. this is indeed a first concrete step towards the implementation of the european agenda for new skills, but it is above all a signal that the real resources to be focused on in europe, including a new social pillar, for inclusion, but also for innovation and work, are human resources. i believe that this measure also means that, through the online platform, with more accessible tools and services, we have also adapted the possibility of mutual recognition of skills and competences, including formal and non-formal ones, in a european framework of greater support, in particular, not only for the new generations, but also for adults who lose their jobs or who are looking for new opportunities. the interesting thing is that opportunities are being given not only to individuals but also to employers, to those who are involved in training. and we guarantee three things in particular that i want to remember only as headings: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected, and that the protection of personal data is also better protected than in the past, that the disadvantaged have greater access, that volunteering is recognised and that the skills of third-country nationals are also recognised.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today is a good day for young people, for music and for europe. with this amendment to the creative europe regulation and this three-year european co-financing, we are recognising the value and giving a future to the european union youth orchestra, founded 40 years ago by claudio abbado and lionel bryer, and set up by the european parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues, the council and the commission again for their fruitful cooperation. this orchestra is unique in that it is made up of young musicians from all the member states of the union, selected each year on the basis of quality criteria. a veritable workshop of young talents who transcend cultural boundaries and collaborate to achieve excellence in the field of music. in fact, thanks to this extraordinary experience, which i would call european musical citizenship, a large part of the more than 3000 musicians who have been part of the orchestra to date are today, in europe and around the world, conductors, soloists and teachers, but they have also made the musical culture of many young people grow. the orchestra has been directed by the greatest musicians, from claudio abbado to barenboim, from bernstein to rostropovič, has performed in the most important music festivals in europe and the world, earning the respect of the entire cultural community. i would say a true cultural ambassador of the european union, who has brought to the fore the richness of our musical heritage, encouraged intercultural dialogue and really created the conditions for a wider musical culture. at a time when europe is facing many challenges, it is good that this agreement has been reached in the european year of cultural heritage, because we must remember that music was the first common european language. but to do all this, adequate funding is needed. we've had a very difficult time for the orchestra since it was threatened with closure in 2016 due to lack of resources. that is why i have fought, together with many of my colleagues, whom i thank, to save the experience of the orchestra first, and now to secure it until 2020, the year in which the new european programme for the cultural week will be approved. i hope, commissioner, that the european ambassadors of culture will be reinstated, and that other excellent european institutions will be included. of course we ask the euyo to develop a greater capacity to involve musicians from all the member states, who must make selections as publicly as possible, and also to diversify their income in order to ensure with sponsors and other contributions and of course with their performances and tours to ensure their sustainability and reduce dependence on union funding. but as a member of the european parliament and an italian, let me also say that after brexit the orchestra, which is based in london, was also in danger of losing its legal status as a european body. for this reason, together with the italian government, the rai and the municipality of ferrara, but also with other partnerships, we have offered the european union youth orchestra the possibility of moving to italy, also obtaining financial support from our country, but also of continuing the experience of the summer school in austria, in grafenegg, in bolzano, and of having an antenna also in brussels, thanks to the belgian government, so in a truly european logic. the orchestra, therefore, i would say - and i say this with great pride, and we should all be proud of it - is the first cultural institution after brexit which has been experienced by the cultural world in that country with great apprehension and great concern. it is the first to be hosted in another member state, in a logic of solidarity and to safeguard the freedom of movement of so many young people, of sharing a european cultural and educational experience.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural value of the european union youth orchestra is undeniable and it is a concrete example of integration. the orchestra was set up under the auspices of the european parliament in 1976 and is a unique opportunity for the young musicians who take part in it to grow, both personally and professionally, and is therefore a heritage to be safeguarded. the work we did on trilogies has certainly improved the text: we have managed to get a number of concepts in, such as the fact that this is a temporary, exceptional measure that will end on 31 december 2020. secondly: we have included the condition that the grant from the current creative europe financial allocation will be charged both to the culture subprogramme and to the cross-sectoral section. in this way, the culture sub-programme was not penalized too severely. finally, we urged the orchestra to achieve greater financial independence, to increase its media visibility, to play more concerts in the member states and to ensure greater representation of the states in its composition. these are improvements which my colleagues and i have been able to introduce and which certainly make the text more balanced and more circumscribed.
member of the commission. – mr president, first let me thank you for all your very constructive and supportive contributions in this debate. i think this atmosphere is what we need in future negotiations about the next multiannual financial framework when we talk about the role and the place of culture in the next mff. so i need your help to lobby for a more established position for culture for the next mff. as for the european youth orchestra, which was established in in 1976 as one of the first building blocks of the future european identity. we’ve had some difficulties recently, but this report and this solution can fund a very solid and smooth financial background for the operations of the european youth orchestra, currently in the uk and in the future in italy, because the european youth orchestra will move its administrative and operational headquarters from the uk to italy in the second half of this year. so thank you for your support and thank you in advance for your future help in lobbying for culture and for a more solid place for culture in the next mff.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the ten members who have spoken, and this shows that there is still an interest in culture in this parliament, which is apparently a bit empty, and i thank the commissioner very much for his speech. i think they were touched... although some are no longer there, i would like to answer very briefly: the commission has already i would like to say that we strongly shared an approach whereby european co-financing is not the only resource of the european orchestra, but is a part of its income, because there are also some countries, in a different way, which cooperate, there are sponsors, there is hospitality. but certainly having three years ahead of us with a certain co-financing also allows for planning and other good opportunities. as far as visibility is concerned, it is very true: we have asked for it, we have made a commitment with the european broadcasting union to give more visibility to an orchestra that is european and that needs to be better known and perform there too. the balance, which is rightly called for by various colleagues in the various countries, depends on two things: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to say that the orchestra has also made this year - i say to my colleague bilbao when she said about visibility in the various countries - i would like to reassure her: this year, for the european year, there will be tours to 13 european countries, as well as to countries outside europe. there is, of course, a fundamental problem - we have also said this in conclusion - which is that of resources. we know that creative europe, as mr grammatikakis rightly said earlier, is only 0.15% of the total budget. we are asking for an absolute doubling of this figure, although we know that there are difficulties, but it is a question of priorities: culture is what makes europe europe, and it is what can also rebuild a response to the crisis, which is also an identity crisis, it is a crisis of intercultural dialogue, but also of meaning. i would just like to conclude by saying that in this respect i would like to point out that parliament, and some of our colleagues, have already proposed a pilot project on music since last year, but we also want the cultural dimension to be more present in all other european policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the comoros is based on a subsistence economy which is heavily dependent on foreign trade. the exception is the fishing sector, which is a strategic priority but is being held back by shortcomings that prevent the intelligent exploitation of the opportunities offered by the archipelago's waters. the termination of the agreement is seriously damaging to the already fragile economy of the comoros, but we must ask ourselves what has happened, because if the exploitable fish stocks are estimated at 33 000 tonnes per year and the volume of local fisheries is now less than half, it is because the remaining part continues to be exploited by foreign fleets that enrich themselves on the backs of the small community. what didn't work? if all this has happened, we have to ask ourselves this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal fishing in the azores, and we are now committed to taking action to combat this practice and to contribute to the development and improvement of fishing conditions in the small archipelago.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about the traceability of conflict minerals, tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, is to have ethics and transparency at heart. responsible sourcing and mandatory traceability is a must. the illegal trade in minerals fuels a cycle of violence that tends to go on forever. the adoption of the regulation is recent, and we have taken note of the accompanying measures defined by the commission in collaboration with the oecd. the year 2021 is upon us, the year in which the obligations on importers in the european union will apply. all extractive-mineral trading companies are subject to the measures, including local companies established in extractive contexts. the commission must demonstrate the same level of ambition as parliament in drawing up accompanying measures. our involvement is essential, as is the urgent need for additional measures to include small local workers as the main target groups. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank mr lange and ms mcavan for putting this on the agenda. there is clearly a huge interest in these questions, and i fully understand that because it is also important to us. this is very important legislation on a serious problem of grave violation of human rights in certain areas. this could contribute, but of course it will not solve the problems fully. i also understand your impatience on this, but i want to remind you that the legislation has not yet entered into force. i answered many of your questions already in my introductory remarks, but am happy to come back to them. we are now focusing more on the incentives than on the legislation. when that enters into force, then we will have other tools as well. we are working specifically to help smes to prepare for this with our online tool. the translations of the oecd guidelines will be done later this spring. the transparency platform for downstream companies is also targeting smes in particular. we are working closely with our member states and experts. there are only five member states who still need to appoint their authority. the others are working on it, as some of you mentioned. there are lots of initiatives happening in the member states today – we can come back to a fuller list of that at a later stage. there have also been some results from our outreach, for instance we see now that china is adopting legislation and that there are discussions going on in india as well. on the industry scheme alignment, this is done by a delegated act based on the oecd methodology, and yes, there will be shadow audits, but companies do remain individually responsible. on the apple-intel participation in the european partnership, it is key here to have a partnership between business, ngos and governments. they will adequately complement the regulation with technical assistance and good mining practices for small and artisanal miners. on the transparency of schemes, the methodology adopted by, or developed by, the oecd is to recognise industry schemes to make sure that they fully respect the five steps of oecd due diligence guidance, including reporting. this alignment methodology is developed and monitored in conjunction with civil society organisations, including, for instance, the organisation global witness, which is very helpful in this regard. the commission is not financing big private companies. we are focusing financing through a call for proposals on local activities for artisanal and small-scale miners to enhance their socioeconomic capacities, increase their productivity, make them, in due time, eligible to access credits, take care of the gender issue, and help them address the worst cases of child labour affecting the mining areas. there are also proposals to target the capacity of local authorities, so we are really trying to work on a bottom-up approach. those expected to present proposals for eu funds will mainly be civil society organisations, and many of them have very significant experience in this field. we appreciate this and want to support it. on the non-financial reporting directive, we have made a very clear commitment in this regard as part of the political agreement on the regulation, and we are fully committed to honouring it. the non-financial reporting directive provides that the companies covered by the directive shall include in their management report the principal risks related to those matters linked to the undertaking’s operations, including business relationship, products or services which are likely to cause adverse impact in these areas and to show how the undertaking manages those risks. so we specified last year, in non-binding guidelines on non-financial reporting, that companies are expected to disclose relevant information on due diligence to ensure responsible supply chains for tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. on this basis, it is clear that the commission expects companies covered by the directive to include reporting on the responsible sourcing of 3tg. as you know, we are planning a review of the regulation, even though it has not entered into force yet. in that review we could decide to include new minerals – the methodology has been developed to be neutral in that case. we will also make an assessment of whether it is enough or there is a need for new legislative measures, and we will be happy to work with you in this regard. as you see, we have been doing a lot already to prepare and to make the accompanying measures in order to have all that ready when it finally enters into force. i thank you for your strong interest in this, and i commit, madam president, honourable members, regularly to come back and report where we are. i know that the interest is significant, and we promised at the adoption of this that the commission would keep you regularly informed about what is happening. i remain at your disposal whenever you should wish, and thank you again for this debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss our action plan on alternative fuels infrastructure. the commission warmly welcomes the european parliament’s initiative. as members of this house, you have already called for a high level of ambition with the adoption of the alternative fuels infrastructure directive in 2014. the commission shares this ambition. the provision of a comprehensive, easy-to-use infrastructure for alternative fuels is a key prerequisite for the transition to low-emission mobility. our first priority was to ensure that the alternative fuels infrastructure directive is properly implemented in all member states. that is why we did not hesitate to launch immediate infringement procedures against those member states not complying with the directive. with the second mobility package, of 8 november 2017, we delivered an additional policy stimulus, particularly with our action plan on alternative fuels infrastructure. by 2030 more and broader action will be needed. we need a larger part of the existing fleet to run on alternative fuels in order to meet the eu commitments under the paris climate treaty. however, we don’t think that the directive needs to be revised at this stage. the council and parliament adopted this directive four years ago as the first ever legal instrument to ensure the promotion of a new market for alternative-fuel vehicles and vessels. since then, a lot of progress has been made. yes, the completeness, coherence and ambition of the national policy frameworks vary greatly. our analysis of the implementation of the directive shows that, on average so far, the planning under the national policy frameworks which member states had to submit pursuant to the directive would not meet the level and consistency of ambition that will be needed after 2020, when more vehicles are expected to hit the roads. however, in many places the directive has acted as a catalyst and has stimulated and broadened national planning and strategies. it is therefore time for joint and concerted action, but not for reopening negotiations. so, with the action plan on alternative fuels infrastructure, we are now providing an important and very concrete stimulus. we are making available an additional eur 800 million in the form of innovative financing instruments for the rollout of infrastructure: up to eur 350 million through the connecting europe facility (cef) ‘blending’ call and up to eur 450 million through the cef debt or innovfin instruments. we can already see how the blending of grants and loans under cef blending works in practice. several consortia will now start to roll out fast-charging infrastructure on strategic highways. this is good news for europe. but there are also less developed parts of europe where continued support action is needed. here member states can benefit from substantial cohesion policy support to accelerate such investments. in the current period of the multiannual financial framework (mff) eur 70 billion has been allocated from the cohesion fund and the european regional development fund for promoting sustainable mobility and transport, including the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. through the action plan we are also facilitating better collaboration among authorities and market players in relation to good practice. we have already started this process in the form of alternative fuels roadshows in member states and have received a lot of positive feedback. it is fundamental to stress the need for greater efforts to introduce alternative fuels and clean vehicles. a major lack of infrastructure is no longer a valid argument against it. the basic infrastructure is starting to be put in place in many parts of the european union. consumer buy-in depends on quality of choice. it is highly relevant that more vehicle models are being introduced into the market and this is happening quickly. with the second mobility package, we have made important proposals to further support market direction, including proposals for a new co2 emission performance standard and for the revision of the clean vehicles directive. low-emission and zero-emission vehicles will be favoured by consumers if the infrastructure is not only comprehensive but also easy to use. this is not the case at the moment, particularly not across borders. with the action plan, we have now outlined an approach for further discussion with public authorities and market players about needs and approaches for addressing the interoperability of services, including payment services, in the most effective way. we are already supporting authorities on very practical issues of data collection in order to map better the location and availability of charging and filling stations for consumers in europe. let me conclude. together, all the points of action under this action plan will help to ensure that we have in place a comprehensive, easy-to-use spec on infrastructure for the recharging and refuelling of alternative-fuel vehicles by 2025.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission's decision, through this action plan, to take action on a matter as important as the reduction of atmospheric emissions in the transport sector, that is to say in the sector which has now become the main culprit, the main responsible party, the most important polluter, is the right thing to do, provided it is done in a balanced way. we must ensure the spread of alternative fuels, but we cannot put the manufacturing industry on the back foot, much less the consumers, the users, who would have to bear costs that are totally outside the market if the process were not gradual. the decision to maintain a neutral approach, supporting or financing all possible alternative forms, is very correct and balanced. we shall therefore assess over time whether this communication is sufficient or whether further regulatory action will also be necessary.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today i would like to venture a little out of the box, a little forward and a little backward. almost 80 years ago, europe was already operating a zero-emission freight transport solution powered by renewable energy. the italians in 1938 had difficulties in supplying fuel and therefore developed a trolley that transported materials thanks to modified electric trolleys (the "trolley trucks") derived from fiat. the stelvio line reached eighty kilometers in length. it was powered by hydroelectricity. it was decommissioned in 1956. today the swedish government, siemens and volvo scania have been experimenting with this solution for years. the results are excellent, technological advances have improved the reliability of the system by making it possible to transport electrical goods over long distances, otherwise difficult with electrochemical accumulation alone. the costs per kilometre are relatively low and recoverable with exercise thanks to the efficiency of electric traction. it builds on existing infrastructure, enabling seamless flexible logistics to urban centres reachable by moving off electrified lines: for short distances with energy stored in batteries during highway journeys, with on-board electric generators or with conventional endothermic engines powered by alternative fuels. it is an innovation which does not upset the employment balance of drivers and transport companies. the european parliament already expressed its support for this solution in june 2016, but vision and coordination at eu level are needed, funds to start the infrastructure. these are the great works that we would like to leave to future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that rather than promoting alternative fuels, which have very limited environmental benefits, it would be more useful to move decisively towards those which actually achieve the best environmental performance, such as electricity, which is only transient from fossil fuels, biomethane, which is only transient from methane, and hydrogen from renewable sources. the development of charging infrastructure is strategic for the spread of electric vehicles. but the deployment of the charging station network must precede and not follow the spread of electric cars, otherwise citizens and businesses will not be able to use them. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. progress is also possible through technological innovation in support of infrastructure. two trials: smart charging and vehicle-to-grid respectively allow to control the charging volume avoiding overloading of the grid during peak hours and to reverse the energy flow of the vehicle batteries, contributing to the stability of the system. that's the direction we need to go.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 1.5% is the share of electric vehicles on the road in europe today, 1.1% is the share of sales in 2016. it is still too little when we consider the 35 million dirty diesel vehicles that are still driving in our cities and will probably continue to do so for several decades. i am also thinking of my country, italy, together with hungary and the czech republic, we are the only countries which give priority to vehicles powered by natural gas rather than electric vehicles. it is a view based on a fossil, illogical and anachronistic model. the five star movement obviously wants to overcome this logic and catch up with the spread of electric cars, for the benefit of the environment, the climate and the citizens. it's not just a question of infrastructure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another assault on democracy in that little paradise atoll in the indian ocean, a popular tourist destination for the whole world, which has been in chaos for years: i'm talking about the maldives. the iron fist now between the supreme court justices and president abdullah yameen, who pushed parliament to unlawfully declare a state of emergency, suspending precious fundamental freedoms and setting off a wave of arbitrary arrests. among them, justice abdullah saeed, the head of the supreme court, stands out. he and other political prisoners are denied the most basic rights: yesterday's news is that the government even intercepted meetings between the judge and his lawyers, violating their right to confidentiality. today, as always, we have a duty to support political opponents in detention and exile, such as former president nasheed, human rights defenders who face daily threats and persecution from government authorities, judges and lawyers, who are also victims of intimidation and improper interference. i call on the maldivian government to end the state of emergency immediately, and on the european union to enforce the measures provided for in the cotonou agreements and to arrest those responsible for this situation. if we don't act with conviction, we're complicit in yameen's murder.
a writer. the rights of children, all children, are inviolable. hence our strongest condemnation of all forms of abuse of children with disabilities, not only in uganda. we must eradicate these ritual crimes, oppose barbaric forms of superstition, fight against the beliefs that legitimize these horrible acts, unfortunately in support of the financial greed of people seeking power. the ugandan government must step up its efforts, with the priority support of the european union, to define and implement policies to safeguard and improve the conditions of children with disabilities, and also to fully integrate them into their society through laws that ensure their safety, but also through services that preserve their integrity. these kids are no different than any other. disability must not lead to the denial of basic civil and human rights, on the contrary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. by active euthanasia, as it is called in uganda, we mean brutal, violent, cruel murders, which in most cases involve disabled children, but also albinos and homosexuals. something terrible is happening in uganda, and we know little about it, but we know that it is a worrying situation, and it is reminiscent, in my opinion, of the darkest and saddest period in europe in the middle of the last century, and it is caused by feelings and motivations that we cannot stand by and watch. it is a case of human rights being violated, of children being abandoned to their fate. what is the european union doing? what is being done to guarantee freedom of the press and freedom of women? we must intervene, demanding that the government respect the rights of the individual, especially the most vulnerable, through convinced and concrete support, as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to tell you and the presidency that a very unfortunate thing happened yesterday in this house, because during the press conference of a former colleague of ours, mr salvini, the clergyman who came after mr salvini prevented the press from asking questions and the press from asking the things that should have been asked. journalists have also been physically threatened inside this building, journalists have been prevented from asking questions. i ask that action be taken on this.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament cannot be called upon to stamp the decisions of others, including those taken informally on the sidelines of ministerial meetings without a legally binding legal basis, and moreover by a lottery. for these reasons, together with colleagues from all the political groups, whom i thank for their cooperation, we have decided to recall the prerogatives of the european parliament as a co-legislator and to insist on full respect for the ordinary legislative procedure in relation to the location of european bodies and agencies. as the only directly elected institution representing the citizens of the union, parliament is the first guarantor of the democratic principle, and we intend to make this principle our own by voting today to accept the seat, but only if the rules and time limits necessary to ensure the full operation of the agency are respected. but this is the last time for us. we expect a negotiated confrontation to reiterate the role which the european parliament deserves and which is recognized by the treaties.
rapporteur. – madam president, i ask for the referral of the matter back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiation in accordance with rule 59, paragraph 4, subparagraph 4.
member of the commission. – mr president, indeed it’s a kind of coming home to participate again in a debate about structural funds and regional policy, and everything which is related to this. it’s also good to see some well—known faces again here in the plenary. i am speaking primarily representing my successor and i don’t want to intervene too much, but there is a common commission view, of course, on this issue. i would really like to emphasise – and to begin this intervention by underlining – that the applicable provisions of the common provisions regulation as adopted by the co-legislators don’t foresee an earlier performance review, or an earlier release of the performance reserve. hence, it would be necessary to amend these provisions if the performance review was to be carried out ahead of the deadlines specified in the current legislation. the commission does not intend to propose such a change in the current provisions applicable to the date of the performance assessment and the allocation of the reserve for the following reasons: first, the rate of project selection is an important indicator of progress of programmes and of their potential final achievements, but it’s not an automatic or a sufficient guarantee that the physical and financial intermediate objectives, so—called milestones, of the programmes measured by the performance framework will be achieved. moreover, the so—called selection rate is not among the indicators included in the performance frameworks and the performance reserve may be released only when and if all indicators included in the performance framework meet the milestones in line with the applicable legal provisions. secondly, in order to avoid excessive burden on member states and regions, reporting on the achievement of milestones takes place in the framework of the annual implementation reports. any anticipated performance review would require separate reporting on the achievement of the milestones to take place before that date. moreover, the performance framework and performance reserve are included in the programmes at the level of priority axes, and anticipated performance reviews may therefore result in a situation where some priority axes in one programme receive their reserve while others have still to undergo another performance review in 2019. this would therefore add complexity to the system and increase the burden on member states and regions without bringing tangible benefits. therefore, the commission doesn’t intend to use its right of initiative to propose amendments to these rules as the potential benefits are significantly outweighed by the associated disadvantages, such as administrative burden, complexity, inconsistency across member states and programmes, and unplanned changes to the indicative budgetary profile. the additional work for the legislators to process a potential amendment comes in addition to this. having said that, the commission stands ready to listen and to discuss specific ideas to improve this instrument with the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, each member state has an efficiency reserve from the implementation of the european structural and investment funds equal to 6% of the resources allocated. some countries have already decided on more than 70% of the expenditure relating to their allocations to the regional development fund and the social fund. however, following the resolution of this parliament adopted almost a year ago on building the pillars for a cohesion policy of the european union post 2020, no further information has been received on the unlocking of the reserve. i believe that the commission must unlock this reserve by carrying out an early assessment of the effectiveness of implementation of programmes which are ahead of schedule. among the initiatives in the package for completing economic and monetary union recently presented by the commission is the proposal to amend the general regulation on the structural funds to allow member states to leave all or part of the efficiency reserve at the disposal of the commission, with a view to implementing their own structural reform plan, which europe would pay for through a simplified procedure and without the need for national co-financing. the commission has also theorised a bipartition between low-income and low-growth regions. this is a mechanism which, although apparently simple, can create misunderstandings and confusion, especially with regard to the very notion of structural reforms, which, as the commission sees it, is completely at odds with the concept of infrastructure. my position is clear, precisely because i am aware of the infrastructure backlog that continues to penalise the regions whose development is lagging behind, such as the south of italy, which i have the privilege of representing in this house, and of the difficulties that their productive fabric encounters on a daily basis. i am convinced that cohesion policy must pursue its original aim, contrary to what the commission proposes: the commission's proposal is to reduce the gap between the territories, but between all the territories, without distinguishing between 'good' and 'bad' regions, which in the minds of some people should mean different objectives for cohesion funds. we must clear the air of the misconception that european funds, which can certainly do so much, can do everything on their own. it would be an unforgivable mistake not only to accept but even to promote the idea that they can become the reserve for all the needs and emergencies that europe is facing. on the contrary, let us all work together to relaunch cohesion policy by modernising it, rediscovering its objectives and returning to the territories the only true european policy of long-term strategic investment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us say without any further ado: the fact that we have diverted 21 billion - about 2.4 billion for italy - from cohesion policy, and hence from economic, social and territorial cohesion, to other objectives, such as privatisation or the jobs act, is yet another slap in the face to our territories, which are in need of investment for development as never before. the five star movement, on structural reforms, is absolutely opposed to all measures that affect the welfare state, including labour market interventions, while we are open to measures relating, for example, to improving administrative capacity or to combating tax evasion. the italian elections have shown that the citizens do not want these reforms dropped from above, that they only need the multinationals to lower the rights of the citizens. we were frankly surprised by the commission's proposal to release these resources early to be used, among other things, for structural reforms. we do not understand the hurry, especially since the current rules provide that an audit will take place only in 2019. structural reforms have nothing to do with the ratios of cohesion policy. we ask the commission to listen to the requests and appeals coming from the regional and local authorities, so as not to cut cohesion funds, not to distort the objectives of these precious resources which serve the poorer regions. we will do everything, also thanks to the strength that comes from the italian citizens, to transform this europe into a land where no one - no one - will be left behind.
the session, adjourned on thursday 15 march 2018, is resumed.
on friday night, the united states, france and the united kingdom struck military targets on syrian soil. this action is the consequence of the use of chemical weapons by the damascus regime against the civilian population. in view of the gravity of the situation, i think it is necessary for parliament to send a strong message today before the debate with the high representative, mrs mogherini, tomorrow and the meeting with the president of the french republic, mr macron, in the morning. it is precisely because the debate in parliament is considered to be of great importance that i received a telephone call yesterday from the british prime minister, mrs may, who wanted to inform the european parliament through me that the attack on the bases in syria was an attack aimed at chemical weapons only and not at the civilian population. the objective: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the eu. the second message he gave me, and i am passing it on to you, is that the united kingdom intends to continue to work with the countries of the european union on the syrian issue. a few hours ago, a meeting of the union's foreign ministers on the situation in syria also came to an end. i believe that parliament must today say loud and clear that the use of chemical weapons is unacceptable and that it is a red line that no one in the world can cross. and we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that syria continues to be a battleground between global and regional powers and terrorist organizations, which pursue their own interests without regard for the grave suffering they cause to the defenseless civilian population: since 2011, more than 500,000 people have died and 12.5 million people have been forced to flee their homes, including 5 million who fled syria. we must act with greater determination to pursue peace and stability in the middle east mediterranean area by strengthening dialogue and diplomacy, with the full involvement of the united nations. but europe must play a leading role, because the mediterranean area is the area where europe can say a great deal to prevent violence from spreading, war crimes from being committed and the use of weapons which are prohibited by international conventions. to do this, a strong unity of europeans is essential: to go in a dispersed order would be a grave mistake. the dramatic situation is such that there can be no doubt about the need and urgency of building an ever more effective common foreign and defence policy for the union, and the current debate on the next budget is a vital test of our willingness to equip ourselves with the resources needed to be truly global players, but above all to be the bearers in the world of the values around which the european union was born.
thank you to all the group chairmen for taking a strong stand on the syrian situation and the latest developments: i think we are all unanimously against the use of chemical weapons. the vast majority of groups support targeted action to destroy chemical weapons production sites; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. i hope that the attack will be the last and that the intelligence and the will to dialogue will prevail on the part of all, starting with the great powers who have great responsibilities, but also the local powers - iran, turkey, saudi arabia - must do their part to contribute to the pacification of a territory that has suffered for too many years. because it's not just syria: there's also iraq, there's the israeli-palestinian conflict; the situation is very complicated. europe must speak with one voice, europe must not only say that it wants peace, but must be a protagonist in the construction of peace. tomorrow, of course, there will be a full discussion; we will also discuss this with president macron, whom i will inform, before he speaks in the chamber, of what has been said in this chamber today. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i broke a bit of the traditional rules today, but we couldn't, in the face of what happened, just sit back and accept that routine prevails in the face of emergency. this is a political parliament which must make its voice heard: we are the representatives of the peoples of europe and it is right that this matter should be discussed, even briefly, immediately. i thank you for the summary but also for the active participation of all the groups in dealing with a matter of such great importance. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
we now come to the adoption of the minutes of the sitting of 15 march, which have been distributed. are there any comments? the minutes are approved. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
thank you for the advice, a candidate for the next presidency of the parliament.
the final draft agenda for the april 2018 parts-sessions (pe 619.992/pdoj) was circulated and the following amendments were proposed (article 149a of the regulation): monday, tuesday and wednesday: no changes thursday: the ppe group has asked for the motions for resolutions on the 'situation in moldova' to be added to the vote. the discussion took place at the october 2017 meeting.
this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, including the replacement of parts of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and repair of buildings. mr żółtek is proposed to make the request of the enf group.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the effort sharing and lulucf regulations bring the european union closer to meeting the paris climate change commitment and the energy union objectives. as regards the effort sharing regulation, the member states have succeeded in modifying the starting point: the european parliament called for the beginning of 2018, but the council managed to take june 2019 as a starting point, perhaps losing some of the ambition of the final text. the lulucf regulation will provide a framework to ensure that emissions and removals from forests are accounted for and that co2 emissions from forests do not exceed carbon removals from natural basins, the so-called 'zero target'. however, the agreement could have been more ambitious, perhaps with a net negative emissions target. finally, as regards the use of wood biomass for energy, a truly sustainable strategy should allow only the use of waste biomass, avoiding the destruction of virgin forests, an approach which was not shared by the trilogue.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the one planet summit on 12 december our heads of state and government were busy renewing their commitment to implement the paris agreement. but a few days later, as we closed the negotiations on the regulations we are discussing today, and in particular the effort sharing regulation, the gulf between the climate rhetoric and the willingness to commit seriously to cutting greenhouse gases was staggering. but the surprise is relative because, in the negotiations, the council was held in check by governments, such as the italian one, which are staunch defenders of fossil fuels. in 2017, parliament called for a reduction of 529 million tonnes of co2 in non-ets sectors by 2030, greatly improving the commission's proposal. now, instead, thanks to a downward compromise and a delayed start of the linear reduction trajectory to may 2019, thanks to loopholes, tricks and accounting tricks, we are barely getting to a 25% reduction. we consider this an unacceptable compromise, which is dangerously far from the international climate objectives.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after almost three years of work we have reached the end of these negotiations. in 2015, when the commission reintroduced the package after initially withdrawing it, i have to admit that the premises were not the best but significant progress has been made in recent years. the circular economy has become a priority for the european union, a priority for the co-legislators, a priority for our companies, which have seen its potential early on, but above all a priority for citizens. europe has been able to show its positive side, to bring together national interests, on paper opposed, to achieve a high degree of shared purpose in the everyday lives of its citizens and the environment in which they live. that is why i cannot deny you the satisfaction we have had with the result we have been able to bring home. with this package, europe is firmly aiming at sustainable economic and social development, which can finally integrate industrial policies and environmental protection. the circular economy is not just a waste management policy, but a way of recovering raw materials and not over-exploiting our planet's already scarce resources, even by radically innovating our production system. the package we are about to adopt certainly also contains important measures on waste management, but at the same time it goes beyond these by defining rules which take into account the entire life cycle of a product and aim to change the behaviour of businesses and consumers. for the first time, member states will be obliged to follow a single and shared legislative framework. an ambitious plan with clear and unambiguous stakes. just to sum up the main new features introduced: increasing the recycling targets for municipal and packaging waste; the introduction, for the first time, of a 10% maximum landfill leakage limit; the extension of separate collection obligations to organic, textile and household hazardous waste; but i cannot help mentioning the inclusion, here for the first time in european legislation, of mandatory measures to reduce the odious phenomenon of food waste, an environmental but also ethical problem, as well as actions to combat pollution of the seas by waste. important rules have been introduced to prevent the generation of waste: this is not only because prevention is the first level of the waste hierarchy, but because prevention means making products that are repairable and reusable by design, and it means having production cycles that use resources efficiently, that reduce waste or that reuse it for new production. and finally, prevention means introducing business models that move from selling a product to sharing a service. the circular economy is therefore a total paradigm shift that we all have to confront and is a challenge for states, which are asked to set ambitious targets to facilitate the transition to a new development model. when you get a job like this done, it means there's been a lot of input. in the few seconds i have left, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and their assistants in particular for the effective cooperation they have always shown, which has been the added value in bringing the result home in a relatively short time. a special thanks to dr. marco leonardi for all the precise and meticulous work on the file. a special thanks to vice-presidents timmermans and katainen, commissioner vella and dg envi, in the person of director-general crespo, for their expertise and continued support in getting to the final result. finally, mr president, i thank the maltese and bulgarian presidencies: but a special thanks goes to the estonian presidency, without whose tenacity in wanting to conclude the negotiations, we would not be here today.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the rapporteur for the excellent work they have done. i would like to say that we will vote in favour of this package, which is a revision of the existing waste directives, because we think the compromise with the council is a good one and because, for example, it increases the recycling targets for municipal waste but also for packaging waste. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. this is very important to us. however, it should be made clear to the public that this is only municipal waste, which represents only 10% of the total. so parliament should have been more ambitious, also to set a precedent for when it comes to changing the targets on commercial waste, industrial waste, construction waste and demolition of buildings. for example, a binding target of 30% reduction in food waste by 2025 and 50% by 2050, a target for preparing for re-use absent and a target for preparing for re-use of packaging, the mandatory return of the vacuum system. the citizens want these things. above all, we felt that there should be a total ban on the incineration of all types of waste, and that the subsidies to fossil fuels, from which all types of waste are derived, should be abolished. without these measures, unfortunately, the package we are about to adopt is only a tentative improvement on a situation which, from our point of view, needs to be greatly accelerated if we really want our economy to become circular.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the hard work she has put in and the results she has achieved. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take part in them. the agreement sets binding waste reduction and recycling targets for municipal waste landfilled and will strengthen our waste hierarchy by placing prevention, reuse and recycling above landfilling and incineration. all these are important provisions which will have to be transposed by the member states to ensure a real transformation of our economy from a 'use and throw' model to a circular paradigm. finally, there is the matter of food waste, because we have insisted strongly on a 50% reduction in food waste: a fight that i have believed in from the beginning because we cannot and must not forget the weakest and most needy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in this debate as the shadow rapporteur on the rules for drawing up environmental reports, a technical dossier on which we have been able to work swiftly and positively with all the political groups. the joint debate is, however, an opportunity to broaden the scope of the circular economy. today we are discussing the completion of the important work on the waste directives, which set targets for 2035; but in these weeks we have started to debate, or will be debating very soon, other fundamental elements of the necessary transition to the circular economy. the european commission's proposal to introduce indicators on how to evaluate performance is fundamental and we already supported a request to that effect four years ago. the plastics strategy and the forthcoming legislative proposal on single-use plastics finally put the initiative in motion in the face of the huge industrial and environmental paradox of this product: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the circular economy, in short, is not a dream, a fixation of environmentalists, but an urgent necessity to combine development and sustainability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than three years of work, this parliament will finally approve the package of regulations which can start a real industrial revolution. the agreement reached at the trilogue stage is not exactly what the envi committee wanted, but it clearly points the way towards a new development model combining industrial growth and environmental sustainability. the new waste plan sets out medium- and long-term objectives with clear and unavoidable targets, such as strengthening measures to prevent waste generation, in particular extended producer responsibility, extending separate collection obligations to organic, textile and hazardous waste and a maximum 10% share for landfill waste by 2035. in line with the sustainable development goals, a 50% reduction in food waste and the achievement of a 65% recycling threshold by all member states are foreseen. i congratulate mrs bonafè on the important result she has achieved, but the real work begins now: the european union has a duty to demonstrate to the rest of the world the real sustainability of a circular economy model.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to this fine and inspiring debate and for their overall support. for me, it confirms once again that creating a circular economy is one of the big challenges of our time. but it is also offers us huge opportunities, especially in the environmental, economic and social sectors. we urgently need to make more durable and recyclable products and, at the end of the cycle, use waste as a resource and channel it back into the economy. taking a sustainable path requires multiple changes, of a technological, organisational, financial, social and also educational nature. the road ahead may seem daunting but we can make the transformation happen. embracing the circular economy offers significant opportunities as it will unleash new sources of innovation, growth, employment and well-being. it is for all these reasons that the european commission and the european union at large have made the circular economy a key political priority and that we are implementing an ambitious plan with far-reaching initiatives. a central plan of action involving taking waste legislation in the european union to the next level with ambitious, legally binding landfill reduction and recycling targets for the period up to 2035 alongside targeted waste prevention measures. it is encouraging to see that over the past two decades many member states have gradually improved their waste management in line with the eu waste hierarchy. in 1995, on average 64% of our waste was still landfilled. in 2000, the average had been reduced to 55%, while the average recycling rate stood at 25%. fifteen years later, in 2015, landfilling of household waste in the eu as a whole had dropped to 25% with recycling having increased to 45%. yet, challenges and big differences between eu countries remain. we are not closing the loop yet. in 2015, twelve member states still landfilled over 50% of their household waste and six of them incinerated 40% or more. regarding the concern expressed by ms wiśniewska, i would like to clarify that poland can get a five-year derogation for recycling and landfilling targets, so maybe she can reconsider your position and vote in favour instead of abstaining. with regards to mr pedicini’s comment that we missed a crucial chance to set legally binding targets for other waste streams like food waste, marine litter, the reuse of packaging and so on, the new waste legislation foresees a large number of review clauses asking the commission to assess the feasibility to set such targets in the next years. more and bold action is still very much needed. the new waste legislation that we hope you will approve later this week, will provide fresh impetus to this area. the commission will do all it can to make the new legislation deliver on the ground. i cannot conclude without thanking the rapporteur, ms simona bonafè. i would also like to take the opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs as well as all the other meps for their commitment, contribution and support to this dossier. as ms engström said, we have reason to celebrate but let us not forget that this is not the end of the road. it is the beginning of our walk. let’s continue working together as we have done so far. it is true, nothing is easy but let’s be positive and look for the opportunities in the problems and not look at the problems in the opportunities.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has not escaped anyone during this debate that the circular economy is a lever we have at our disposal to boost europe's competitiveness and a more sustainable economic development that protects the environment, just as it has not escaped anyone that there is still much to be done: i think of the prevention measures, i think of the need to consider industrial waste as well. however, we all know that this package, which i hope will be adopted by a large majority on wednesday, was never considered as an end but as a starting point, which must be reinforced by the actions envisaged in the action plan, in particular by the ecodesign measures but also - and here i am meeting the concerns of some colleagues and in particular of colleagues from the countries that are a little further back - also stressing that the circular economy, in order to be truly implemented, needs adequate financial instruments to build the infrastructure and also to support companies in the renewal of their production system. that is why i think that investment will play a crucial role, a fundamental role, and the next multiannual financial framework which the commission is about to present will have to include, if we want to be credible, the issue of resource efficiency among its main themes. in conclusion, we now just have to prove ourselves credible. the rules are: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the circular economy is moving forward, albeit in small steps. of course, if you look at the compromise reached in the trilogues, we are still far from the objectives that the european parliament had set itself. the worst result of the negotiations concerns the landfilling of waste: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. it is also regrettable that the preparation for re-use targets, which would have had a positive impact on waste reduction and job creation, have been cancelled. however, our commitment to achieving much more ambitious results such as the introduction of binding targets for the reduction of food waste by 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2050, and for the preparation for reuse of packaging, remains unchanged; the mandatory introduction of the vacuum system to be used; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of waste. without these measures, as i have said, the package, which is worth approving, will bring only minor improvements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a solid environmental legislation, the poor and ineffective implementation of which is a longstanding problem. the seventh environmental action programme, therefore, will not achieve the desired results, despite its ambitious objectives. one of the causes is certainly the lack of integration of environmental concerns into other policy areas. but there's a lot more: for example, no progress has been made on the development of a union strategy for a non-toxic environment and for the reduction of exposure to harmful substances. there is also a high degree of uncertainty about the data provided, due to the lack of indicators and the limitations of existing indicators. the european environment agency itself notes slowdowns in progress in several areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs sârbu, for this report. as a shadow rapporteur, i very much appreciated the result we achieved in photographing the state of implementation of the seventh environmental action programme: we have indicated in committee the open questions and the areas where the union's environmental policy must act as a matter of priority, with those serious and concrete answers which have so far been lacking. to prevent living well within the planet's limits from becoming a mission impossible, we need to make a real u-turn in many areas: for example, stopping the erosion of natural capital and biodiversity, making our cities' air breathable, and reforming pesticide licensing. these are just a few of the many challenges we face, and pretending they don't exist is the biggest mistake we can make. i hope that the attempts to undermine this report, especially by the ppe group and, in particular, by everyone, to conceal the role and impact of agriculture - especially intensive farming - on the environment will not be allowed any room in tomorrow's vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner. the digital transformation that has profoundly transformed the media sector provides an opportunity for women to make their voices heard and increase participation in the labour market, fostering female entrepreneurship. however, even in this area, there remains a significant gap between men and women, which we could call the 'digital' gap. in addition, as a study conducted by amnesty international has shown, there has been a sharp increase in social media representations and discrimination against women, online harassment and gender-based violence, and cyberbullying against women. it is therefore essential that the commission and the member states commit themselves to promoting digital literacy for women and, in particular, younger girls, to provide them with basic and advanced it skills that are relevant to the labour market. but it is also essential to commit ourselves to awareness campaigns and to any other appropriate measures to prevent discrimination, violence and harassment, in order to ensure that women use the internet more safely as part of a more general media education, which is sensitive to gender specificity.
in writing. with the aggravation of internal problems in the eu, we are witnessing continuous diversions and instrumentalisation of development aid funds, to cope with expenditure corresponding to different objectives, including the fight against illegal migration. i have already denounced on several occasions the fact that development funds have been diverted by creating new ad hoc mechanisms, often with different aims and nature and with opaque management, such as trust funds. while development at international and european level has come to define very precise commitments as regards funding but also the objectives to be achieved, even indicating the deadline within which to achieve them, we have not found the same objectives and deadlines when it comes to security and defence. in conclusion, i believe that security and development must go hand in hand and coordinated, but i believe that resources must be separate and distinct.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are several reasons why it is worth creating an instrument to support civil society organisations which defend and promote the principles of article 2 of the treaty. first of all, i would like to remind you that the european project was born after the war not to create a vast market but to protect citizens from the diseases of democracy and the poverty that had devastated it. it was born of the will of countries that were emerging from fascism, from nazism and, gradually, it welcomed countries that emerged from dictatorships: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. it's time to get back to the roots of that project: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that is why it is important to support ngos that monitor the rule of law, advocacy and litigation. secondly, the crisis of the parties and the return of poverty give ngos a new centrality: they are often the mediators between power and society. their strength and independence is as valuable as that of the judiciary and the media. thirdly, the union allocates funds, and rightly so, to defending democracy in third countries, including candidate countries, but spends nothing on national and local ngos in the union: this is a disparity that must be overcome. fourthly, support for ngos in the member states is now virtually exclusively provided by the ea norway fund and philanthropic associations: is often perceived as outside support and misunderstandings are created. in order to overcome these misunderstandings, we must also have a parallel instrument for the european institutions.
mr president of the french republic, mr emmanuel, welcome to the european parliament. today is an important day: we have the opportunity to discuss with you the future of europe, to listen to your ideas and proposals. i want to thank you for deciding to participate in a real debate. everyone knows the rules: the president of the republic normally gives a solemn speech, but the president of the french republic told me that he wanted to have a real debate with the meps. that is why i thank you for having decided to discuss as president with us. today, following what has happened in syria, we will also have a debate on the situation in the middle east in the evening. parliament is therefore looking forward with great interest to hearing from you and discussing with you. so i thank you very much, once again, for being with us. you are in strasbourg, in your own country, where an event will take place on 1 june: thousands of young people will be in the european parliament to discuss the future of europe. i invite you to join us in talking to these young people, as you are firmly committed to trying to close the gap between institutions and citizens so that we can all work well together towards a stronger europe closer to our citizens. thank you very much, mr president, for being here with us.
thank you very much, mr president.
before i give the floor to the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, i would like to remind you that the system for recording 'catch-the-eye' speeches is open. to ask to speak, simply insert your ballot paper and press any of the electronic voting buttons. i will close the recording system after president juncker's speech.
mr juncker, i shall give you the floor now.
i now close the electronic recording system for 'catch-the-eye' requests for intervention. the debate will take place as follows: the representatives of the groups will now speak, and then president macron will have the opportunity to respond to the first speakers. catch-the-eye interventions will then follow. i would ask everyone to respect the time allotted so that as many members as possible can speak. i would remind you that the vote will take place at 1 p.m.
mr president, you have about ten minutes if you would like to answer the first questions put to you by the groups. if you wish, you can speak now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president macron, i believe that, in addition to all the issues that have been discussed, there is one that i consider to be central, predominant, and that is that concerning european enterprises, development, the economy and the work of european enterprise, in a context where the trade war between the united states and china is prevailing over any other logic. i would like to know what your opinion is on the strategy that europe should pursue, because i think that we should be in a position at this moment to relaunch, as regards trade agreements, a perspective that looks at our 'made in europe', just as it looks at the protection of european products, through those anti-dumping rules for steel and aluminium, or all those situations that make it possible to show that there is no such thing as populism and that there is no such thing as a mere vague representation of situations. we have a responsibility and a duty as a united europe to protect our enterprise, especially the small one, especially the one that is suffering, especially the one that cannot even get to the international process. it is clear that in this kind of situation it would be important to hear from you whether sovereignty should prevail in this area or not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president macron, you certainly have the credit of having revived the european dream by going against the tide, at a time when the anti-european wind is still blowing strongly, we have heard incredible signs. this is a great merit but it is above all a great responsibility and now every choice, every act is measured in terms of consistency and effectiveness. it is true that the divisions are primarily between pro- and anti-european and pro-sovereignty: but this is not the only division, president macron, i would like to know if you agree. to achieve the europe which protects, as you said in amiens, the workers, but which serves us all, it is not enough to be europeanists, other choices are also needed: the s&d group has been at the forefront of this house for years and will continue to be so. but there are still many differences between conservatives, progressives and many other choices. so, president macron, how will you choose with whom to concretely achieve, in practice, the dream we share?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much for speaking about the need for a new internal solidarity between the member states of the european union. however, i would remind you of what has been happening for several months now at the franco-italian border of ventimiglia-mentone, as well as bardonecchia, claviers and montgenèvre, where the french police have behaved in a manner that is very much at the limits of legality and even humanity, rejecting asylum seekers and minor refugees, pregnant women, making them get off trains, and holders of normal transit passes. i would like to know whether you are aware of this and whether this is the internal solidarity you are referring to. finally, a suggestion and an invitation to your political position, which is much talked about in europe. the suggestion is not to create new families: there's no need, there's enough of them. the invitation is to come to the next meeting of the european socialist party: you'll find many similarities in our programs.
many other members would have liked to have spoken. i apologize for not being able to give it to all those who wanted it, but the debate has gone on much longer than expected. there will be other opportunities to intervene. i sincerely apologise to all those who have waited to put their question to the president of the french republic.
president of the french republic. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to summarize the answers to all the questions that have been raised. there was a series of questions about immigration policy. i would like to say first of all that everything that happens between france and italy is not the initiative of one or the other, but in perfect coordination. i said this while stressing the perfect understanding we have between our two countries in dealing with the flow of migration and with situations - you are right to recall this - which are always extremely difficult and worrying human situations and which call for the greatest humanity but also for this coordination. i therefore welcome the exemplary relationship between france and italy, which will continue. france adopted a reform at the beginning of the year, at the initiative of parliamentarians, to allow the application of the dublin regulation, which is currently unsatisfactory - and i agree with you on this - but not applying it at all was unsustainable for a country like france which today has thousands of people whose situation allows them to be in refugee camps, even though they have received a refusal, for example, in germany. between 50 and 60% of the people who are refugees in france, especially in the paris region, are what is called - i don't like this formula, but it is often taken up - dubliners from neighbouring countries. so if we do not make the current system work, with all its imperfections, it is unsustainable, especially for a country like france. i therefore welcome the realism we have shown in this respect, which has made it possible to resume what has been done for several years and will be continued. now the question is how to reform this system, because i am not satisfied with it and i consider that it does not allow us to respond today to the migration challenge as we know it. first, by moving towards harmonisation of the rules. that is what we want to do, particularly with germany and italy. harmonizing our rules means that we can manage reception much more coordinatedly. we should take a lot of inspiration from our german neighbours in this area, in terms of the time limits and rules on asylum and the treatment of irregular situations. it is towards this coordination that we will move in the short term through the law. finally, and more generally, there is the european stage which, as i said earlier, seems to me to be the most effective. on this point, i would like to respond to many of you by advocating greater solidarity beyond the frontiers. we need to take on a european investment to protect europe's borders and not leave the burden to the countries of entry. it is a necessary reform without which we cannot support the migration we face today and will continue to face. on the other hand, we must move towards a common asylum system. i am in favour of it; that is the best answer. today we are trying to coordinate things. i am in favour of a common asylum system where all member states would adopt the same rules. finally, we must build the rules of internal solidarity and several reflections are under way on this point. we have seen all the difficulties of a relocation policy which, in an emergency, was indispensable. if we want to build the regulations and laws that will make it possible to meet this challenge in the future, i am in favour of the idea of funding solidarity policy. that's why i'm pushing with others to have an agency that can fund the communities that will be candidates to welcome and integrate refugees. we can see the difficulty of some national debates, and we can also see cities that are ready to go in this direction. simply put, european solidarity is essential to finance reception and integration policy. on this point, as you have understood, i am in favour of much greater convergence, internal and external solidarity, and having the same common rules. in the french debate, it is often underestimated that the problem we have had for decades in france is that we do not welcome everyone, that we make everyone wait, that we have some of the highest deadlines in europe for granting asylum and that, at the same time, we do not know how to accompany those who are not eligible for asylum and who will have no title. as a result, we are in a situation where everyone is not welcomed, almost no one is integrated and no one is accompanied back to their home by persons who are not entitled to a residence permit. so i am willing to defend such a system, but i can tell you one thing: it is neither fair nor efficient. therefore, i take this passage which is unsatisfactory to everyone. some say it is unfair, because we are more harsh with those who remain in irregular situations. we are tougher to be able to welcome those who will be in a regular situation, those who are entitled to asylum. then you asked me about brexit. i have a very direct answer on the position that france will take vis-à-vis the united kingdom and the post-brexit situation. i am in favour of the most integrated relationship possible, the closest, and there is a solution: we know it well, it is eu membership. it is the one which also allows good access to the single market, which allows access to freedoms and very good integration. i know that you can't promise something to your people and then want to give them the opposite. so there will be negotiations. they are led by michel barnier under a mandate from the council. i value the friendship with britain and we have bilateral relations in terms of defence and the management of common borders, but there is no cherry-picking in the single market. it's a simple principle. i believe in europe and therefore i believe in what we have done. therefore, the freedoms in europe are solidarity-based and full access requires the recognition of all these freedoms, european jurisdiction and contribution to the budget. afterwards, we know the formulas, but we must be consistent in the choices we make. that's what democracy is, too, is explaining the what if scenario to the end. there are many people who offer to take a look at your country what if scenarios, but they do not explain it the day after: the day after is necessarily the time when you have to embrace the principle of reality. i believe one thing about the regions in europe. i'm sensitive to all cultural expressions. they have their place in it and europe has always recognised them, but i also believe in the constitutional framework in which they are expressed. you are meps elected in different countries: france, spain and others, where sovereignty is expressed at the level of a state. so it is in this context that my answer can be given. i am in favour of bringing together cultural specificities, the richness of our diversities, but doing so in a framework which is a democratic framework. and this democratic framework presupposes that we respect the constitutions that our peoples have chosen. like it or not, these constitutions are not being torn down and sovereignty is not being torn down, unless the people decide to do so. secondly, in connection with the european elections, i received all the political training in france before making this choice. first, had the regional constituencies reconciled france with europe and allowed for a much higher participation? no, i'm not going. all the political parties were in favour of having a national constituency - all except yours, i acknowledge your consistency in defending it here, but in all honesty i simply have to remind you that you were the only ones. all the others were in favour of a national constituency, given that the constituencies which france had so far chosen did not correspond to any political, administrative or even local identity. as you know very well, these were relatively artificial cuts of regions whose only coherence was the telephone switchboard of some 30 years ago. i believe that this does not correspond, from a political point of view, to the reality of france, neither yesterday, nor today, nor tomorrow. i think that this reform, which was wanted by almost all the french political parties, was therefore the right one and i believe in the spitzenkandidat system. i think it's very good. so, on that note, rest assured. i do not belong to any of the political families represented here today. it is my freedom, and it is quite in keeping with the spirit of the french constitution, and this freedom gives me the right not to interfere in the deliberations of the house and of the political families whom i respect immensely, but which are neither those of the european council nor those of the president of the french republic. therefore, i consider it to be a step forward indeed that the existing political families propose a spitzenkandidat. i think it would be even more democratic to go to the end of this logic and to have a form of european emanation and a beginning of european demos. if we had been consistent to the end, this president, this spitzenkandidat would have been the head of a european party's list. i am not opposed to it at all, i am simply not a member of any political family in your parliament. so in that respect, i think it is extremely consistent. i would simply say to the honourable member that almost all the states you have mentioned are indeed federal states, so their lists are federal lists. you are right to say that they are not transnational, but because they are already federal. if we want to have a beginning of federal reflection, we must turn to lists which are transnational, which are at the bottom of truly european lists and which are no longer national lists reflecting european convictions. i just wanted to make this distinction that i think reflects reality, because you could have led to other interpretations. secondly, several of you have spoken to me about a europe that protects. i want to tell you that when i took up my responsibilities, this was the principle i wanted to bring to the european commission. some others have followed my example. i believe in a europe that protects. this is the basis of sovereignty. sovereignty is both protection and the ability to speak with one's voice in the concert of nations and internationally. it is the pact itself that makes our fellow citizens trust us. so yes, i believe in a europe that protects in all its forms. i have defended this formula in all my speeches and in my actions. it is also in the context of this europe that protects that i wanted - i did so in my speech and i welcomed your commitment on this point - to bring about a more ambitious and faster reform of posted work because i think it is very concrete. it speaks to our fellow citizens, and you know, it speaks to them far more than any of the stories of voter lists or size. what speaks to our citizens are not the subjects of our political apparatus but the subjects we debate and the responses we bring to their daily lives. for our citizens, it is not the setting or the scenery of our action that is important, but the background. the europe that protects is therefore how to deal with the question of social dumping in our europe. i will be very direct with you: when we advocate a reform of the directive on posted work, for a europe that protects, we are precisely in line with the european interest and we are not going into a kind of drift or betrayal of european history, dear member, which today consists in making europe move forward by fiscal and social dumping. i believe that if we believe in the european project, we must recognise that we have ambitious agricultural and cohesion policies, and i support them. look at the philosophical and political foundations that led us to decide these policies. it was to bring all countries together in a kind of european standard. for years we have accepted that these policies are used to finance alternative models in some countries and thus to finance fiscal and social dumping. the cohesion funds are therefore used to lower taxes or to create tax niches to attract firms against other european states. or, to maintain social models that are unsustainable, workers are paid less and sometimes even less to attract companies to europe. i strongly believe in the need to move towards a stronger european competitiveness and i am leading these reform policies in my country. but i think it is impossible to pursue such policies if, at the same time, we do not have a real desire for cohesion at european level and, therefore, for convergence and if we do not use both our directives, our law and the money we invest in our budget to enable these convergences. i therefore believe in a europe that protects, i believe in a europe of convergence, particularly in the fiscal and social fields, and therefore in a strengthening of the fight against the optimistic, fiscal and social policies, and not the non-cooperative policies between our countries. you then asked me about trade policy. on this point, you have highlighted all the tensions that exist and i fully agree with what the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, said just now. i believe in the trade policy we have built up on a multilateral basis. it has set its own rules, and the wto is the one that upholds them. i am not in favour of national retreat, because this trade policy creates rules of the game and these are growth opportunities. now, i am not in favour of a naive trade policy. that is why i have defended the strategic sectors which must be defended and i believe that we cannot buy everything or invest in all sectors innocently in our countries. i would also like to invite you to look at how other countries organise themselves, including when they join the wto. they have always defended their own strategic interests and we have sometimes suffered from too much naivety on this point. finally, i am in favour of our trade policy being fully consistent with our other objectives. the free trade agreement with canada had been negotiated. moreover, if the jurisdiction as it is normally defined is followed to the end, it is a community jurisdiction, which could therefore have been exercised to the end. it was decided to refer the matter back to the national parliaments. a great deal of work has been done in the french parliament to monitor this text, to improve it and to ensure that before it is ratified and throughout its application, it will comply with our requirements, particularly in the climate field. the canadian prime minister will speak this afternoon before the french parliament, where he will have the opportunity to reiterate his commitment to these principles. but i would like to see a minimum of consistency in our future trade policy, which is ours, so that our environmental, social and health commitments are always reflected in our trade negotiations. we cannot negotiate new treaties where we agree to open trade lines with geographical areas or countries which, as they claim, either do not want the paris agreement, or decide that their social model is based on alleged dumping or on some kind of optimisation mechanism, because then we explain that we will trade, but at the expense of those who, in our area, are being imposed rules. our trade policy must therefore be consistent with our environmental, social and health commitments. you have repeatedly referred to each other on the syrian question. first of all, i would like to say that today no european taxpayer is financing the targeted interventions carried out by france, but the french taxpayer. so, about this, let there be no misunderstanding between us. secondly, i want to reiterate here, because democracy has rules, that it cannot be just rules that make us feel good. the president of the french republic is the head of the armed forces, it is the french constitution, voted by the french people, that has decided this and that the president of the republic has responsibilities and can make certain decisions. the constitution provides that the president is then required to inform the national representation, which has been done, and we have even decided that there should be a debate. each country, by its constitution, has its own rules, but you cannot lecture me on democracy by explaining that you do not like the french rules. they were decided by the sovereign french people and voted by them when they had to decide on their constitution. that is the case and will continue to be the case as regards the competence of the french president. if it is a european intervention, a european policy, then the european rules prevail, but to love democracy and sovereignty does not mean that we want to mix up all the rules or everything that binds us. finally, i would like to recall - and i will not go into more detail on syria, since i have already explained our position at length - that the heart of france's action over the past months has been diplomatic and humanitarian action and the preparation of the follow-up, which has also enabled us, on several occasions, to adopt a resolution in the security council on the ceasefire and humanitarian access, which was not respected, but which russia had agreed to sign, because we were activated. it was resolution 2901, a few weeks ago. we have taken up this diplomatic initiative the very next day and are on the ground in the humanitarian field with our ngos and the support announced yesterday. we have also consistently promoted a policy of preparing for the future - as i said at the un general assembly - and we have taken the initiative of the so-called small group, with several countries in the region, to prepare for the future of syria with the participation, in particular, of the countries where millions of syrian refugees are living today. i am thinking of jordan, lebanon and turkey. this is what i think is the essence of what is happening in syria today and i wanted to remind you of this. i would also like to say a few words about energy policy. firstly, i fully understand your concerns about nord stream 2 and i have to tell you that chancellor angela merkel herself expressed them a few days ago, recognising that this was an extremely sensitive matter because it calls into question our collective sovereignty, our energy sovereignty vis-à-vis russia. i believe that this is the energy policy we must have and it will enable me to respond to your franco-german proposal on energy. we must have an energy policy which is consistent with our commitments to reduce co2 emissions and which ensures europe's energy sovereignty, because if we give up anything, it will not be possible. the french strategy has been to hold these two lines. some people don't like nuclear, i hear. nuclear power, however, emits no co2 and much less than coal. it is not good to be too dependent on nuclear power, however, and in this respect my predecessor had committed france to a transition strategy which is entirely desirable and has been supported. but france will have a very clear line on this point. our intention is to develop renewable energies much more and to continue to do so, to improve the mix, to do so in conjunction with all european countries to improve the interconnections that also allow better use of these energies. but we do not want to give up our energy sovereignty or the sovereignty of the countries around us. you can shake all fears. i am simply saying that we have the security authority, which is the most demanding and, look at what has happened, i have not seen in recent years, including in incidents that may have occurred far from home, victims to be deplored in the same way as for other energies. i simply note that there is a requirement for safety, and we have it, and there is also a requirement for a reduction in dependence on energy production, which must continue. we must reduce the share of nuclear power, but we must do so at a pace which allows us to maintain this sovereignty. if the closure of power stations leads to the reopening of coal-fired power stations, as has unfortunately happened in germany, you are degrading your co2 balance, which is exactly contrary to the paris agreements, and if accelerating this rate, without preserving your energy sovereignty, leads to increasing your dependence on this or that non-european sovereign power, in particular russia, to import energy, that is not a good decision. it therefore fully assumes that it has an energy strategy with one top priority: reducing emissions. that is why i have decided to close all coal-fired and thermal power stations within this five-year period. the law has been passed, it's not a petition of principle, they will all be closed, so there will be no more. we must embark on a transition in the field of mobility which requires going much further with higher fuel prices and diesel-gasoline convergence, which is also indispensable, and with a policy of investment in renewable energies which is absolutely essential to go much further and which will make it possible to reduce over time, at the rate recalled by the minister of state, nicolas hulot, a few months ago, the share of nuclear energy. we have decided to adopt this strategy because it allows us to maintain both these lines: reduction of emissions and energy sovereignty. i therefore hope that we, together with germany, will stick to both of these lines, and i will not give in to policies that would lead us to increase co2 emissions, even in the short term, or to those that would lead us collectively to depend on other powers to be able to run our economies today. secondly, as regards the union and economic and monetary integration, i must tell you that there is already a europe at different speeds. let us not make any mistake: there is the europe of the euro, there is the europe of schengen, so there are already several speeds in our europe. i think our moral duty is not to declare these clubs closed and not to declare that we decide ab initio with whom we will work or not, but to recognise that in order to move forward in europe, the most ambitious and the most willing must be able to move forward, and this is how europe has always moved forward. if europe had always waited for the whole club but i'm sorry to tell you you wouldn't be here. europe was born from the ambition of a few who sometimes took crazy risks and pursued these crazy dreams, which must therefore be pursued. in this context, i hope that we will have more ambition for economic and monetary union. firstly, in the short term - i will be very clear - we must complete the commitments made in the banking union and, in this parliament, finish what was decided several years ago. it is clear that we must carry out reforms at country level to bring us into line with the european semester and our own commitments, because that is the responsibility of the member states. this is what i decided for france and what i presented to the french people in my election. we must also move towards greater solidarity within this union because today, what is not working, particularly in the euro area, is that we have equipped ourselves with the instruments of responsibility, but we have not taken decisions on solidarity and there is no monetary area in the world that functions with the constraints of a common currency, with reforms that are totally legitimate at home and without a budgetary capacity that allows investment, convergence and stabilisation in the event of a crisis. (applause) i would like to thank so this is the project i am advocating, the one i want to work on with chancellor angela merkel and all the partners in the euro area and outside, because it is a discussion whose ultimate objective is that all the countries that wish to join can join. it is therefore essential that there should be regular discussions not only within the euro area but also more broadly. i therefore agree with you on this point: we must move towards a political form which cannot be purely intergovernmental. so there is an intergovernmental element, there are intergovernmental instruments which exist and this will involve the decision, of course, of the states and governments, but there must also be community-type structures which can be set up at this level. that is why i welcomed the proposals. i think we should try to go further than the president of the commission did, because there was this thinking that there would be a 'eurozone' line. i think we simply need to have a democratic principle and democratic governance at the euro area level. we probably need to have, at the euro zone level, a representation of the parliamentarians gathered here on certain subjects, at least a more unified circle because there will be extremely important issues that will require democratic control before a parliament that will have to know about them, because we will need a form of executive that will be competent and that will have a mandate. since this cannot remain at the intergovernmental level, we must find a way to move, at any rate, towards a much more integrated institutional and democratic form at the level of the euro area or of all those in the euro area who wish to integrate such a project. i believe that if we do not make this organizational and institutional advance in the coming years and if we do not decide in the coming months to make it possible to achieve greater stability and greater capacity for investment, we shall not be able to move forward in europe. you've asked me about many other things, but i think i've gone way past my hour. i wanted to take the opportunity you gave me to talk about gender equality. it's a subject i've always championed, we've championed it during the campaign and i've made it the big five-year cause. we are defending it now by a law that is being considered in france. so, on that note, rest assured, my commitment is complete. on the proposals that are being made and the draft directive, i fully support the principle, but parental leave paid at the level of daily sickness benefit is a good idea that can be very expensive and end up being unsustainable. in france, we are therefore going to reform leave, particularly parental leave, for the spouse who cannot benefit from it today or who benefits from it much less. i think we need to have an equal ambition and go much further, but we cannot make it pay for by systems, sometimes by unbalancing them. the proposal needs to be worked on, and i agree with the principles, but the arrangements described here, as analysed in the french system, have a potentially explosive cost. france will itself make a proposal along these lines; i believe in this equality and the reform of parental leave which we are going to introduce will go in this direction. finally, as regards the strategic defence of our europe and defence policy, i have said that france believes in this defence policy. president verhofstadt recently paid tribute to the french national assembly, which a few decades ago put a stop to well-known projects. i think we can all be pleased that we have made a great deal of progress in recent months because a compromise has been reached, because the commission has pushed forward an ambitious project and because you yourselves are pursuing this by working on the european defence fund. i hope we can make the most of this ambition. but it is also about our sovereignty and, in the meantime, i want to make it very clear that france will always stand by any member state whose sovereignty is under attack. this is the position we have taken firmly from day one, alongside britain, when the skripal case broke. this is also the position we have consistently taken with greece when it is threatened in the eastern mediterranean. a few days ago i spoke to prime minister alexis tsipras about this. we will always have this position from where we are because the heart of our common sovereignty is to have this solidarity between us. i have not answered all the questions, but i have tried to be as thorough as possible, and i was very happy to do so here in strasbourg. a european university will also be opened in strasbourg, mr president, as in many other places, because it is a good idea. i believe that this europe of strasbourg is something we are proud of. in any case, i am proud of it and i thank you for honouring this beautiful european city with your presence. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, thank you. once again, parliament was at the heart of the democratic debate on the future of europe. thank you very much for agreeing to a real debate with the meps. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. thank you, president macron, for this opportunity to have a direct exchange on the state of the european union. your election, mr president, has awakened the hopes of all those who are strongly committed to europe, that is, of all those who see in you a chance to overcome the impasse into which the european union has fallen with the economic crisis. we have sensitive files on the table awaiting answers: the reform of the dublin treaty, the governance of the euro area, the banking union, the rules on public finance, the post-2020 eu budget, the management of security and external borders. we need to speed up. the european project also has the rule that the deadlock must be limited in time, because what does not progress, regresses. and it's important to give long-winded answers with respect for all: i am referring, for example, to the unfortunate incident in bardonecchia. i do not think that this is the europe he has in mind. and another solution must also be found for syria, a solution other than the use of weapons which, although used for extreme evils, can only lead to an escalation of violence that may not have an end.
mr president, very briefly on the agenda: i just wanted to announce that on 26 april in brussels, a mass of the 30th will be celebrated in the parliament in brussels in memory of the french hero, but who we all feel is our own, arnaud beltrame, who has shown the ultimate sacrifice: of the person. this is true solidarity. our homeland is courage and so we all feel unworthy patriots with him. i honour the memory of this great french officer and i regret that this morning, in his long speeches, president macron did not find a moment to remember him.
mr president, i would ask, on behalf of the efdd group, that the vote be taken on the amendments to the next report to be put to the vote, namely the bresso-wieland report, as provided for in rule 59 (3).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joulaud report is of fundamental importance, as it shows the state of play of implementation, current programming and the debate on the next multiannual financial framework, just a few weeks before the presentation of the latter and the various regulations on cohesion policy after 2020. the european parliament today expressed its concern at the cuts envisaged in the various commission scenarios and stressed the need for an ambitious budget, commensurate with the many economic and social challenges facing the various territories and also capable of covering all the european regions. parliament also stressed to the commission the importance of multi-level governance, a shared management model, which would give regional and local authorities a real role and would also involve economic and social actors in a more systematic way. it stresses the need to promote alternative indicators to gdp, which take account of environmental, social and demographic parameters. it hopes that in the next cohesion policy framework the structural funds for investment will be used more effectively to achieve the objectives of cop 21, with particular reference to renewable energy and energy efficiency. i must point out, however, that the report makes no mention of the commission's worrying proposals for the diversion of as much as 21 billion - (the president interrupts the speaker) - to be devoted to structural reforms. that is why we decided to abstain, because we regard adherence to the stability pact and structural reforms as a red line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows to the european union in recent years have made us aware of the complexity of this phenomenon and the need to provide a comprehensive response in terms of international cooperation and shared responsibility. if the european management of migration flows has proved to be rather unsuccessful in this respect, the global one, which is destined to involve the entire international community in the face of the present bleak situation, is proving to be rather problematic. the united states has long since declared its withdrawal from the global compact, considering it incompatible with its government policy. the wars, political destabilisation and economic exploitation affecting geographical areas around europe, to which the actions of the us government and other western powers are no strangers, are just one of the many obstacles to an effective international compact for refugees and safe, orderly and regular migration. if we then analyse the european situation, we find ourselves confronted by those states which, by preferring walls and fences to cooperation and by demonizing and exploiting the phenomenon of migration, making it a source of intolerance, create divisions over the negotiations of the compact and obstruct the achievement of a common position. if this agreement is to provide a comprehensive response to the human movements caused by conflict, persecution, violence, poverty and the desire to seek a better place to live, as with all international agreements, the most challenging challenge will be to move from declarations of principle to facts and commitments of individual states' responsibilities.
mr president, migration is a complex phenomenon that is not going to end, no matter how many fences we build or barriers we place. i believe that building legal avenues and stepping up pledging efforts to resettle those in need is a key aspect in order to tackle the problem. i welcome the compact on migration, and i appreciate its focus on people and the safeguard of their fundamental basic rights. this is of the utmost importance and should be the driver of any action taken. a safe, orderly and regular migration offers a wide range of opportunities to migrants, their countries of origin and the countries that host them. for instance, remittance has proved to be a tool that boosts development up to three times the total of the official development aid by contributing to the economy of the country of origin. in 2017, indeed, while migration was seriously challenging the global humanitarian aid system on the one hand, on the other hand an estimated usd 450 billion were transferred in remittances to developing countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un says that we must welcome all the world's immigrants and that italy must continue its policy of open doors for all. this is crazy. in five years, 700 000 immigrants, false refugees, have landed in italy. in 80% of cases, they are illegal immigrants, who are not fleeing from any war and among them are potential terrorists, as europol has reported. in recent years brussels and the italian left governments have been foolish enough to encourage illegal immigration. over the last four years, the italian state has spent 14 billion euros - our money, italians' money - to keep these illegal immigrants in hotels with breakfast, lunch and dinner. not to mention the enormous social costs that this kind of immigration has brought to our cities: theft, violence. that's enough! italians no longer want to welcome illegal immigrants who have no right to stay in our country. what you need are a few rules, clear and ironclad: the european union has a duty to protect its borders, to combat human trafficking, to expel all illegal immigrants. there's no other way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i remember president juncker saying at the beginning of this parliament, when italy was under enormous pressure from migration, that 'migration and these tragic events cannot be an italian problem, but a european problem'. this goes further: becomes a problem to be addressed at international level; that's why we have to support these agreements. it is true that the united states has moved on and we are now witnessing an increase in the pressure of migration from minors, children and women, who are subjected to unspeakable violence, who are not educated in their countries of origin and are not educated when they come to europe. so what is missing in these resolutions is the implementation of the european union's foreign policy, the implementation of the european defence policy, also because there has been an increase in conflict - the bombing in syria - and the european union has learned about it afterwards, as if it were a delayed transmission, and this is very serious. you have to go hand in hand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if 86% of the world's displaced people are hosted in developing countries, it is clear that the issue of greater responsibility sharing in the area of reception is not just a european one but a global one. and now that the great powers are marching in, it is necessary for the eu to take the lead in this process, by finding a single, strong voice in these negotiations. but we would be more credible in calling for solidarity from other global actors if we were able to demonstrate it internally by endorsing the bold dublin reform proposed by this parliament, which ensures that every state does its part. what we do not want to see in the compacts is the tendency to outsource the borders of european governments, just as we do not want to see the tendency to make development aid conditional on greater control of african borders incorporated and legitimized. there you go. we must not miss the opportunity with the global compacts to reiterate that we are talking about people with their fundamental rights, to create legal and safe pathways for access for refugees and migrants as the only way to counter traffickers and to contribute, through development, to create real opportunities for young africans.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, our colleague mr batten is right: what are you doing? if we were to see the consequences, he consults bloomberg, notes the fact of the leap forward in the price of oil and reflects on it, about "who prodest". and speaking of statements, there is a new statement made today in this house by the high representative, according to which this situation demonstrates - and i quote - the growing influence of europe. only you think so, high representative; i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission is aware of the situation and that it is aware of the situation. other concerns are: the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. then we can understand why you attack those who helped defeat the islamic state. there are many doubts and there is also the worrying question raised by the russian foreign minister, according to which there is a possibility that, with the worsening situation on israel's borders, a large exodus could be triggered due to the syrian refugee crisis, an aspect that europe should reflect on, since it speaks of human rights but in fact tells only fables... (the president interrupts the speaker...)... and no one had the courage, in front of macron, to say that he had made a war...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have had the opportunity to read the conclusions of the foreign affairs council, the lines drawn and the condemnation expressed in respect of the use of chemical weapons. however, it is difficult to escape the perception in european public opinion that europe is divided and weak in the syrian conflict, which has now lasted for more than seven years. yet europe should be much more interested than the united states in solving the syrian crisis, especially when we think of the terrorist threat and the refugee problem. i am not surprised by the prominence of france and the united kingdom, although the fact that they colonized the countries of that area up to a hundred years ago does not justify their unilateral action, as if we were still in the days of the sykes-picot agreement. i think our objective in this context is to prepare for peace, starting with the complicated negotiations in geneva. i hope that the conference on syria, which is to be held next week under the auspices of the european union and the united nations, will not simply take pictures of the situation but will be able to put in place a strategic plan that is in line with the reality that has changed in recent years and that will involve everyone, starting with the european countries, in this objective. we must not let ourselves be distracted from the goal of peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the military intervention by the united states, france and the united kingdom has only confirmed once again that it is not by a series of attacks - even if they are targeted and without human victims and aimed at chemical weapons depots - that the complicated syrian problem can be solved: we must avoid escalation at all costs and stop unilateral actions. europe has the duty and the right to act unitedly, giving full support to the intense diplomatic action that high representative mogherini is taking forward and which will culminate in the brussels conference next week, a crucial moment to reaffirm our commitment alongside the united nations, to confirm humanitarian commitment, to continue working towards a political solution to the conflict and to call on russia, turkey and iran to play a constructive role, as far as possible. we 're at the point of no return . everyone must stop and think about the consequences of continuing the conflict. the international community cannot afford it, but even less can the syrian people, a true martyr of years of suffering because of the game of the great powers and the bloody assad regime. europe must return to acting in the syrian theatre with authority and encouraging a sustainable peace process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack in douma, in which chemical weapons were allegedly used against the civilian population, is only the latest disgrace in the chronological order of this war, which has claimed almost half a million lives since the beginning of the conflict. the question is very complex but the solution cannot be military, which can only aggravate the instability of the area. you can't respond to war with another war: the situation is still serious and, at the same time, more complex because of the overlapping tensions. the solution can only be a political and diplomatic one, and the high representative, federica mogherini, who has already expressed her views in this regard, will have to continue to work, starting from the next brussels conference, to implement an effective strategy for peace in the area. instant, domineering solutions are ill-suited to an area where social, ethnic and religious problems are overlapped by overwhelming economic interests and lust for power.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in russia deserves our full attention. i would first like to point out the lack of transparency in recent elections and in funding for foreign parties, as well as the widespread homophobic sentiment in russian society and politics, which undermines the rule of law and respect for human rights. the normalization of relations between the european union and russia is a factor which we must consider as decisive for stability, security and peace in the world. a strong, resilient and coherent european response is also needed to the foreign policy orientation of russian activity, including allegations of direct involvement, even if unproven, in cases of poisoning of russian citizens in the uk and support for the syrian regime in the use of chemical weapons in douma. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the call is therefore to make every effort to restore conditions of mutual trust and to restore normal relations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have all been relieved to see the small, timid signs of détente appearing on the horizon of the korean peninsula. these messages are certainly encouraging to bring back a moment of normality in the peninsula, which indeed experienced an intense 2017, in which there were several very tense moments that almost led to an open clash. it should be noted, however, that according to the latest report by human rights watch, the human rights situation in north korea remains precarious and highly critical. we must ensure that the legitimate ambitions for stability in the peninsula do not undermine the efforts and attention that this parliament has also devoted to human rights, which have already been the subject of several discussions. while the cause of peace remains a crucial element on the korean peninsula, the protection of human rights, which are still being trampled on in the northern part of the peninsula, cannot be ignored. there can be no peace without justice and there can be no justice without respect for human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest developments on the korean peninsula have once again caught the attention of the world's major powers. as for the importance and relevance, i think kim jong-un's visit to beijing and the possible us-north korea bilateral meeting speak for themselves. once again, the issue of the peninsula's stability demonstrates how much this region has a geopolitical value that goes far beyond its geographical and demographic dimension: the only solution is to avoid military solutions with unforeseeable consequences and to encourage dialogue between the parties. removing the shadow of a possible conflict from this region must remain one of our highest priorities. it is essential to intensify cooperation with south korea, our strategic partner. we must always bear in mind - and remind our american allies - that any kind of military escalation would have a devastating impact, especially on its civilian population and that of our japanese allies, another key partner. we must therefore support and encourage initiatives for inter-korean dialogue, and we must work to ensure that the global and regional powers involved contribute positively to this process. as regards north korea, it is important to stress that abstention from missile provocations and the halting of the nuclear programme are essential conditions not only for maintaining open dialogue but also and above all for reopening, if the commitments are followed by concrete and irrefutable facts, possible prospects for humanitarian aid. as a neutral third party, free of ambitions or ulterior motives which other actors can be accused of, we can and must have the ambition to present ourselves as an authoritative mediator: never as at this moment - and we see it also in theatres much closer to us - the importance of dialogue rather than rhetoric based on threats and tests of force and escalation must be reiterated. that is and must remain our role. these are our principles and our values in a world where diplomacy and politics are too often wrongly sidelined or rendered powerless.
mr president, i am referring to what my colleagues have said, particularly to mrs šojdra. if we talk about the political regime in north korea, it's one of the largest totalitarian regimes in the world, 120,000 prisoners in inhumane conditions, concentration camps. why do i say that? on the one hand, it is certainly good if we support the regime's not becoming more isolated and that some form of constructive dialogue is conducted with it by both our south korean partner and the united states of america. on the other hand, i'm saying here that i'm relatively skeptical that at this point the presidents of north and south korea will hug and the leaders of the regime in north korea will come to their senses and change the rules of their state. let's deal with them, but please remember that this is one of the most criminal regimes in the world and it's not going to change.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i would also like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. based on the intervention by the chair of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), mr mcallister, i would also like to highlight the importance of parliament in its role as a diplomatic actor. the ep delegation to korea was clear evidence, once again, of the relevance of parliamentary diplomacy alongside the traditional one. so you are also playing an important role in the process. for this debate, i would like to conclude that all we all share a common interest in achieving the goal of the complete, verifiable and irreversible de—nuclearisation of the korean peninsula through peaceful means. we will continue to support all diplomatic efforts to this end. we stand ready to work together with our key partners towards a negotiated solution and provide our support if requested, while keeping up the pressure on the dprk to ensure that the country engages in a credible and meaningful dialogue. we look forward to the outcomes of the announced summit meetings. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the violation of human rights and the rule of law in the case of two greek military personnel arrested and detained in turkey.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the land border incidents and subsequent detention in turkey of two greek soldiers has received attention well beyond greece and turkey, including at the highest levels of the european union. at the most recent european council in march, our heads of state and government expressed their grave concern over the continued detention of eu citizens in turkey, including the two greek soldiers. the council called for a swift and positive resolution of these issues, in cooperation with member states, and the european council is considering these matters. shortly after, president juncker and president tusk discussed this issue directly and at length with turkish president erdoğan at the leaders’ meeting in varna. the detention of the two greek soldiers is a departure from the custom, usually followed by both sides, of resolving such incidents as swiftly as possible. no charges have been brought against these two soldiers and it remains unclear when the court will examine their cases. the two soldiers have been in pre-trial detention since the beginning of march. we trust that their case will swiftly be brought to trial, in line with international detention standards. yet the situation creates unbearable uncertainty for the persons involved and for their families. on the political level, it increases strains between turkey and the european union. we still have serious concerns about the recent turkish actions in the eastern mediterranean and the aegean sea. the european council condemned these actions in march, and detentions of eu citizens also create undesirable tensions with member states. turkey is a key partner for the european union, as well as a candidate country. we do have serious disagreements with the turkish government, particularly when it comes to the negative trend of the human rights situation in the country. turkey has been moving away from the european union, in particular in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights, and by weakening effective checks and balances in their political system. the commission has repeatedly called on turkey to reverse this negative trend as a matter of priority. and this is again our assessment in the country report on turkey that we just adopted earlier today, after the college at noon. yet, beyond our disagreements, our dialogue with turkey is more important than ever. just think about the situation in syria. we need to engage with turkey to address a difficult and tense regional situation, and turkey needs to engage with us. in this context, good neighbourly relations would be extremely important. it is in our mutual interest to refrain from actions that only make our dialogue more difficult. this is why the european union has urged turkey to avoid any source of friction with our member states, all the more so between two countries that are also neighbours and nato allies. it is in the interest of all to avoid further irritants and instead strengthen dialogue and cooperation, as well as a peaceful resolution of any dispute that may arise. this is a message we convey to our turkish interlocutors as part of our continuous dialogue. i assure you that the services of the european union will continue to follow developments closely, and we count on the european parliament to do the same, and to work together for a swift resolution of this situation, especially for the two soldiers, for their families and for the sake of dialogue in our troubled region.
i would like to say that at this stage we are no longer accepting blue-card interventions because we are very late.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the two greek soldiers detained in turkey is very clear. the problems of minimal border crossings have not been a major problem for years: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. today we are witnessing a different dynamic. the case was politicized by one party, preferring over-the-top media exposure to the much simpler resolution of the case. in the meantime, the two greek soldiers are being held in turkey without any specific charges being brought against them. in fact, the original espionage charge was dropped. it is completely unacceptable to politicize this unjust detention of the two soldiers for purposes other than what is the case in itself, namely a simple trespass by mistake. the question, of course, concerns the two governments directly, but we, as the european parliament, must make our closeness and our unambiguous support for the government, the greek people and their soldiers felt. turkey must find a united and united union to defend the rights of the two arrested soldiers, two european citizens who were victims of an accident with artificial fuel, and who must be released. we cannot and must not remain silent in the face of these provocations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial instruments for external action are a fundamental component of european foreign policy for the promotion of our values through concrete action in the world. over the years, however, parliament has repeatedly pointed out problems of inconsistency, inefficiency and duplication which limit its effectiveness while the international landscape, particularly in regions close to us, is constantly changing. in view of the forthcoming multiannual financial framework, financial commitment should not be reduced but strengthened, despite brexit and the growing reticence of some member states, while instruments should become more flexible and transparent; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this respect, our guiding principle must be the principle of conditionality. the resources of the european union cannot support those who back down on human rights and the rule of law. when this happens, it must become a well-established practice of our action and direct support to civil society in the country concerned, by diverting funds to it, as is happening in turkey after strong pressure from this parliament.
in writing. we are at a particular moment in history. theatres of conflict and death are multiplying, and the instability and chaos of countries 'far away' but 'nearby' are sounding menacing in an unprepared european union, unable to speak with one voice and to project itself as a credible actor at international level. the following are listed in annex i to regulation (eu) no 182/2011: the european union is a global player in the field of security and defence, and its role in the world is to provide a framework for the development of a global security and defence policy. in such a dramatic context, a clear and long-term political vision is needed to underpin the union's external policy and the financial instruments for external action. greater coherence, transparency, conditionality and democratic control must be the essential ingredients of a possible reform of the present architecture. i also stress the importance of the eidhr instrument, which should not be confused with the others, because it is the only one that does not require the consent of the state for direct support to civil society and human rights defenders. only in this way can we make a real contribution to the sustainable development of third countries from the bottom up.
the report we are discussing is a very balanced report. i thank mrs mady delvaux for this and for the passion with which you drafted it. the annual report on subsidiarity and proportionality is an important tool: it gives substance to our democratic practice. it's for the union. the union needs to increase and spread regulation through more intensive legislation in some areas; in other cases, it must organize the legislation that already exists. and we must send an important but positive signal, if we can do this, to the people watching us, to the citizens of europe. we must respond to the question from below and we must do so taking into account the suggestions and requests from the national parliaments, those commonly known as 'green cards'. i would like to give just one example. in 2019, nine parliamentary chambers invited the commission to submit a legislative proposal to implement the principles of corporate social responsibility. i renew this request: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 22-23 march (2018/2550 ((rsp)).
i thank you, mr president, for your report on syria, with reference to the council's initiatives and positions. the european parliament yesterday and monday held a long debate on the syrian issue, condemning the use of chemical weapons but also expressing the will that european policy could play a leading role in peace-building in the middle east and in the tormented syria. as regards own resources, as i said to the council, we are also insisting on the web tax, because we believe it is right that those who do not pay taxes in europe should pay them in the end. it is one of the proposals put forward by the european parliament, and so for us the issue of own resources and the web tax, as one of the solutions for disposing of own resources, is of great importance, similarly to the co2 tax and the tax on speculative financial transactions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has reaffirmed its commitment to an open multilateral trading system, but we must think about how to strengthen compliance with the commitments made by third countries. in essence, we need a more forceful trade policy. it is essential to step up efforts to deliver the single market strategy, the digital single market strategy, the action plan and the creation of the capital markets union and the energy union. the commission should ensure that the interests of the european union are fully protected and safeguard the right to respond to future us measures on steel and aluminium tariffs, measures which cannot be justified on national security grounds and which are in fact an inadequate remedy to the real problems of american overcapacity. digital europe has also been mentioned. in this area, in the light of the cambridge analytica and facebook scandals, the european union must put in place a strategy for social networks and digital platforms and impose transparent practices on them, ensuring full protection of citizens' privacy and personal data.
thank you, mr president of the european commission. as far as the greek military is concerned, i share your position.
i thank the president of the european council for his participation in the debate. i also greet the president of the court of auditors, klaus-heiner lehne, who has been our colleague for many years, and i thank him for his presence here today. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues, i thank president grässle for her words about my work and the work we have done. it is certainly a good piece of work, where we highlight a number of critical points and also give a lot of suggestions to the other institutions to work better. i am sorry that i had to remove the name but, for political reasons, i cannot accept that people should deplore the choice of the citizens in a referendum which - although i myself may not agree with the outcome - was nevertheless a popular vote and therefore we should never deplore the vote of the citizens. as regards the report on the european external action service, i remain rapporteur and would like to say that the service covers important and often urgent issues: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the report highlighted the problems of managing delegations, especially in foreign and difficult areas, and of managing buildings and procurement procedures. both are critical and we must ensure that they do not affect the budget and the proper functioning of the institutions. as regards buildings, although some progress has been made in this area in recent years, there is still a lot of room for improvement, especially in the area of rental and purchase procedures for delegations. as regards the latter's budget, it was found that more than 40% of expenditure was related to buildings: the costs are still too high. we must therefore encourage solutions such as co-location to reduce costs and ensure that the procedures for purchasing buildings are transparent and lead to real cost optimisation. the budget of delegations should also be simplified in order to improve its management and efficiency. at the same time, a higher level of transparency can be achieved and citizens can be made aware of the expenditure incurred. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union's financial interests, in particular on the financial stability of the union. the european external action service therefore needs to improve its control activities and ensure that procedures are in line with the required fees, even in difficult situations. sound practices are needed to avoid errors and irregularities. i remind you that human resources must remain at the forefront: work still needs to be done to prevent harassment, to promote gender balance at all levels and to safeguard whistleblowers. finally, financial support for trainees and a merit-based admission procedure for trainees. i therefore strongly urge a transparent, rational and efficient budget. the reporting must be timely and accurate, both for the expenses incurred by the delegations and for the costs of the missions of the members of the service. in this regard, i shall include in the substance of the expenditure relating to the high representative's missions: the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. so far, only the cost of missions in the first two months of 2016 have been made public. the documentation on these missions must be easily accessible, as requested by parliament itself; it is an act owed to the citizens of the union who must continue to have confidence in the institutions. i now leave the floor to the members for their comments and i thank the president again for taking my reports and for the kind words he addressed to me.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the union's budget is the essential instrument for achieving the policy objectives we want to achieve, but above all it serves to improve the lives of citizens and to fill the gaps in the field of social policies. with particular reference to the transport agency and the connecting europe facility, the major financing instrument for transeuropean transport networks, i would like to stress the importance of these. many projects have been funded, but much effort still needs to be made if we want a united europe. i am convinced that unity also involves the physical unity of the european territory and infrastructure. in order to achieve the strategic objectives, i therefore hope that in future the financing mechanisms will be less complex and more easily accessible to citizens who want to follow their developments. finally, i would like to express my regret again at the lack of a budget line for tourism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments to the report on the single european sky we are trying to highlight certain problems which have recently emerged from choices which, although made at national level, are rooted in the failure to achieve a real european airspace. in italy, for example, we have seen the decision to merge the air traffic control centres of brindisi and padua, with negative consequences for the regions in terms of industrial and employment potential, especially for regions which, like apulia, are already suffering from development delays. the commission itself states that mergers of control centres may be premature and that in some cases smaller centres are less expensive than larger ones. it is clear that, in the absence of a real completion of the single european sky, in which all the components envisaged are implemented, discrepancies and diseconomies are created which sometimes lead to the adoption of rash choices. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to airlines operating from a third country. this is why meetings and conferences are needed and we intend to organise them to discuss and tackle these problems. i hope that all the institutional actors will be open to dialogue and will work to find solutions that protect the territories and above all the rights of workers and consumers.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues again for the work they have done on the discharge to the other institutions. we have included a number of recommendations on the expenditure of the other institutions: it is therefore crucial that they take note of what my colleagues and i have asked for and that we take action to bring about real change. on this subject, another important institution, the committee of the regions, which has a policy-making role that can add much value to the differences we have within the european union, must, however, adapt itself to the recommendations made by this parliament in past reports on the case of the whistleblower, the former auditor who denounced the irregularities, who still has to be recognised as a bona fide whistleblower. there will be an amendment on this, and i ask for the support of my colleagues, so that this case can be closed and we will then be glad not to include it again, because the committee of the regions will finally have complied with parliament's requests.
i would like to thank the minister, the commissioner, mr lehne, all the rapporteurs and speakers for participating in this important and demanding debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the state of our planet's health shows that the 'use and throw' model has incurred costs and damage that are no longer sustainable. we have long insisted on the urgency of making a radical change from product design to product manufacture, from use to recycling, from the elimination of planned obsolescence to the recovery of raw materials. the circular economy is also a key to waste, as it significantly reduces waste production, extends the life cycle of things and reduces the amount of waste that has to be landfilled. we appreciated the effort made to set more ambitious targets to keep materials in circulation for as long as possible, including through the fight against waste, the use of by-products and new business models which already include extended producer responsibility schemes and targets for reuse and recycling of municipal waste. but we would have preferred to read about the ban on incineration, which is uneconomical and environmentally damaging. yes, because our territories, such as puglia, calabria, sicily, campania, massafra and modugno, continue to suffer the consequences of the misguided policy of being more sensitive to the interests of business than to the protection of the environment and health, and of allowing the construction of new incinerators and allegedly new oxidation plants. that is why we voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened confirms that the business model of the multinational web companies is based on the systematic collection of user data. data that has become the oil of the 21st century, used to profile consumers/users, so that we can determine their behaviour, and then passed on to third parties. what's missing, and the cambridge analytica case has exposed that, is the lack of awareness on the part of citizens. so we have to ask ourselves: how should we react? who's making the decisions for us? what role should the states and the european union play in dealing with these phenomena? it's time to end the monopolies of a few big web giants who, by exploiting our personal data and influencing our behavior, have amassed billions of dollars. perhaps it's time to start considering our personal data as a common good, to be protected, as well as other common goods such as water, land, coastline, sea. we have a great opportunity, which is the approval of the e-privacy regulation, which is still stuck in the council. i'll close with a quote from the american economist friedman, who says, "there is no such thing as a free lunch", and so what we don't pay in monetary terms we pay with our data and our lesser privacy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the case of cambridge analytica and facebook shows that public opinion is increasingly being influenced by the profiling of citizens and the sponsorship of more or less false news on the internet, in order to favour political parties and political tendencies and to manipulate citizens in their voting. this happened in europe. cambridge analytica was involved in the british referendum, the french election campaign and the recent italian political elections, despite us, with some success for its clients. commissioner, this is no time for timid answers: it is democracy, it is our europe. i believe that it is therefore necessary to initiate, as soon as possible, legislative measures which will lead to greater responsibility for the platforms, to verification of the authenticity of accounts and to transparency of data transactions. the next european elections are just around the corner, and we are not giving free rein to those forces which, thanks to the illicit use of data, have consolidated their support. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for your question, which allows me to expand on a speech i tried to make about my speech. i think there is a need for more accountability on the platforms. platforms have always been considered as mere intermediaries; they have responsibilities, they have to verify the people behind the accounts, which are very often fake, often computers that respond, operate and generate fake news on the network. i think it is necessary to know who is paying and who is buying the data from the platforms and for what purpose it is being used. there is no state control behind all this; i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high-profile case of facebook and cambridge analytica is revealing some things. the first is the unacceptability of business models that are both parasitic and pervasive, based on the acquisition of personal data, sold or advertised to marketing companies to influence elections, as happened, it was said, in the case of brexit, in the usa and in italy. i would remind you that 200 000 italian names have been the subject of a complaint by the italian privacy commissioner. well, that 70 years after the universal declaration of human rights, europe is now on the frontier of digital human rights, with a regulation that does us credit. but you need consistency. first, we need the e-privacy rule. secondly, i believe that we need, in all respects, to have more courage in defining the responsibilities of social platforms, also with regard to hateful and inciting content, incitement sometimes to suicide - and i am thinking of bullying - and also with regard to all that absolute abuse of power and dominance that is also found in other areas. thirdly, greater cooperation between european authorities, to be facilitated by the commission, those protecting data, consumers and competition: they are seen in a much more integrated way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the cambridge analytica scandal, the us congress heard the ceo of facebook on new rights in the age of the internet, and we must acknowledge that the us administration has treated the cambridge analytica scandal with the necessary seriousness and urgency. but we need to make a breakthrough in the relationship between legislator and new media, by taking back a leading role in areas often considered untouchable. during the hearings, europe was cited as a good example of the right balance between freedom of enterprise and the protection of personal data. in just over a month, the new gdpr will come into force, a general privacy regulation that is the result of years of work and compromise, finally able to meet the needs of transparency, comprehensibility and control in the use of personal data of all citizens. but if europe is charting the course for the future of internet privacy, it is vital and appropriate that facebook reports to this parliament, to the european parliament, and if there is significant interference in elections, also to the governments of the member states directly involved.
member of the commission. – madam president, this debate clearly shows that we are on the same page with the conviction that we do not want to have this in europe and that we do not want to continue such practices or allow such practices to continue. we have the obligation to do everything possible to stop such practices which we see in this facebook-cambridge analytica scandal. we don’t want europeans to be an easy-to-manipulate crowd. we want europeans to be people who are responsible in regard to their private data and who deserve protection. i myself removed my facebook account two years ago. many people, including my pr advisers, told me that ‘as a politician, you will be dead without facebook’. i’m still quite alive. however, there are many people in this hall and also in the audience, and i am sure that the majority of young people here are on facebook. again, it’s our obligation to protect them and to invite them to protect themselves, to understand why the general data protection regulation (gdpr) is here and what the new rights are that they will enjoy after 25 may 2018. i want to say a few words on how our work on this matter will continue now. we will have several inputs for continuation of the work. one thing that we will do is the analysis of where we are with regard to electoral law in the member states. in other words, whether our member states are equipped in their legislation against aggressive marketing, a method of targeted marketing which abuses the access to people’s private data. i am absolutely convinced that conducting marketing based on illegal practices, using abused or stolen data, must be illegal. however, we have to check where we are and whether the authorities are able to enforce the ban on this practice in all the member states. we do not know yet. another input will be the results of the investigations which, are ongoing in ireland and in the uk. there may be some more states launching the investigations later if it is revealed that this practice was used in more member states. another very important input will be how the people approach this, whether the affected europeans will raise their voices and say clearly that they do not want to be objects of manipulation. i expect quite an interesting debate, not only in the european union, but also in the united states. if this case could be good for something, it would be opening the eyes of americans as well, who are more relaxed about their privacy than europeans. another input for our continued work on this could be the opinion of the heads of state, because it might be put on their tables at the may european council. it’s not decided yet, but this is such a big deal that the heads of state will want to discuss this. based on these inputs, the commission will reflect on this case in the coming communication on fake news, and here i will have to disappoint everyone who thinks that we will come up with some kind of censorship. this is not what the commission is planning. we want to come up with workable solutions to fight against disinformation in the eu, and it is very appropriate to include some lessons learned from this scandal in this paper. we will reflect on this case in the digital single market report, which will also come in may. we will deal with the issue of algorithms and communication focused on artificial intelligence, also to be adopted in spring this year. and, of course, we will take this as a lesson for the continued negotiations on e-privacy. this is all the work we have ahead of us. i will be fully available for continued debate with you in the european parliament. let me thank you, to conclude, for a very interesting debate with many inspirational points. we will work with it, and i’m looking forward to future debates on this facebook case and on other things related to the digital sphere.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like, first of all, to respond to the remarks made and questions raised by honourable members during this lively debate. regarding the remarks made by ms rodrigues, mr albrecht and mr moraes concerning eprivacy, i would like to say that this is a priority file for the council as this is one of the key initiatives for enhancing trust and security in the digital single market. the council supports its objective to ensure a high level of protection of privacy in electronic communication, and we have been working intensively in order to ensure solid progress on the file. considering the political and technical complexity of this file and the fact that it takes the form of a directly applicable regulation, it is clear that adequate time is needed for a detailed analysis of all the implications, keeping in mind the overall timeline for the adoption of the digital single market files. the bulgarian presidency is firmly committed to advancing the work towards the council’s negotiating position, with a view to starting the trialogues with parliament. concerning the accent put by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra on a security act, and on enisa in particular, i would like to say that we are continuing our work on the draft cybersecurity act. we are confident that we will be able to deliver on our promise to achieve a general approach in the council in june, and to start the first trialogues in close cooperation with our colleagues and true partners from austria. we are continuing our support to advance all aspects of the file in parallel, so that we can ensure the legal and business continuity of enisa before the expiry of its current mandate in 2020. in conclusion, i would like to say that the facebook and cambridge analytica case is important both in terms of data protection, and in terms of fundamental issues such as the rule of law and the democratic process. we must develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance and critical thinking, and this is key for fighting propaganda and manipulation through fake news, which threatens the very foundation of our societies. that is why i would also like to congratulate the commission on its important step in this regard, namely its setting-up of a high—level expert group to counter fake news and the spread of disinformation online. as ms keller and mr didier said during the debate, it is our common duty and ms jourová has just confirmed that we are on the same page. so let us combine our institutional forces to ensure that the momentum for searching for balanced but effective solutions is kept high on the political agenda in the european union and across the world. as i said during my intervention on 16 may in sofia, the heads of state and government plan to discuss the need for social networks and digital platforms to guarantee transparent practices and full protection of citizens’ privacy and personal data. the council will continue to follow this debate very closely, and i can assure members that i paid particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, as you know, in july 2016 the commission proposed stronger rules against money laundering and terrorist financing, as a swift response to the terrible terrorist attacks which happened on european soil and the financial dealings revealed by the panama papers. tomorrow you will take the final step towards the formal adoption and entry into force of revised rules, and i believe we can be proud of the revised rules, which improve substantially the existing anti-money laundering directive. i would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, mr kariņš and ms sargentini, and all the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the chairs, mr gualtieri and mr moraes. your commitment and expertise have hugely contributed to this result. firstly, the revised rules set a new world standard on transparency of beneficial ownership. by making beneficial ownership information available to competent authorities and to the public as regards companies, it will make sure opaque structures cannot be used to facilitate money laundering. secondly, the revised directive addresses new risks of terrorist financing. it will bring virtual currency platforms into its scope and restricts the anonymous use of prepaid cards. thirdly, the directive strengthens our approach to high-risk third countries in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing. last but not least, the directive strengthens the financial intelligence units and the national supervisory authorities, as well as the cross-border cooperation between these authorities. the result of the negotiations is a very good one: it makes the european union the world leader in fighting money laundering and financing of terrorism. with the adoption of this text, we are marking an important step in fighting against financial crime. the key aspect now is swift and effective implementation in guiding and supporting the member states’ action, and during the adaptation stage the commission will start acting immediately. i assure you of the commission’s determination to see the rules fully implemented. the commission is also taking action against those member states that have yet to transpose the fourth anti-money laundering directive, in force since june 2017. effective implementation is crucial for the credibility of our preventive anti-money laundering system. finally, i would also like to add that our legislative work does not stop here. just yesterday, the commission presented a proposal on use of financial data in the fight against serious crime. the proposed directive complements the preventive measures of the anti-money laundering directive by ensuring better use of financial information for criminal investigations and a stronger link between financial intelligence units and law enforcement authorities. i look forward to working with this house also on this new proposal, which, together with the revised anti-money laundering directive, will be a key response against financial crime and financing of terrorism in europe. let me thank again the european parliament.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the anti-money laundering directive is a very significant step towards combating money laundering more effectively. this parliament has spent a great deal of effort, with some success, to pass a revision which will bring about greater financial transparency and be effective in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. now, public records will reveal the true owners of convenience stores and allow journalists and citizens to more easily uncover cases of evasion, bribery and other trafficking. unfortunately, there is still a dangerous loophole: we have not succeeded in negotiating with the council to obtain unconditional public access to information on the ultimate beneficiaries of trusts and similar institutions. the panama papers and the paradise papers have clearly revealed how structures designed to resemble family trusts have been used to conceal identities and large sums of money. it would be important to be able to receive information not only on written request and on the basis of a legitimate interest: we need more transparency. a step forward, then, but not ambitious enough. only full public disclosure would enable citizens and governments, including in third countries and developing countries, to take the fight to the european and global level, where we can really win it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the military defeat of isis raises very serious problems, particularly in the area of terrorist financing. it seems to me that this report is weak in its forecasting of the countermeasures, the updating of the countermeasures and the forecasting of the evolution of this situation which - it is easy to imagine - will be very important, since the system of international islamic terrorism is lacking the reliable sources that we all know and that were owned by the islamic state. the very serious danger of using cryptocurrencies is to be remembered in this regard: i actually think that the problem is so serious, that maybe we should even think about banning cryptocurrencies. and then there is the problem of how to counter the foreseeably growing use of the hawala system, a system which has its roots in the millenary tradition of the islamic world and which is very dangerous if used for terrorism. the report does not go far enough, i think, to think of new measures and to innovate existing ones in order to be able to deal effectively with what is becoming a major reality in international finance, of unimaginable dimensions. even eurispes, referring to the hawala system, rightly says that we are faced with, and i read it verbatim, 'an entire offshore economy moving billions of euros, an informal flow that does not pass through banking channels and that escapes detection'. this is a grave danger that calls for action, not words.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fifth anti-money laundering directive was, i think, a good chapter in parliamentary life and also in cooperation and negotiation between the various institutions. i think that, thanks to the decisive contribution of the european parliament, we have made a significant improvement in our anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legislation, addressing some of the limitations that have clearly emerged from the panama papers scandals or the investigations into terrorist attacks. i think there are three particularly important elements to be emphasized and highlighted. first of all, of course, transparency with regard to the beneficial owners of companies and trusts and the interconnection of registers which will allow for a more easy and effective exchange of information at european level. we will have full disclosure as regards the beneficial owners of the companies but also for the trusts, all those who can demonstrate a legitimate interest including, it is explicitly stated, investigative journalists and ngos, will be able to have a level of access which will of course also be full for the member states and their financial investigation units. secondly, as regards the creation of centralised registers for bank accounts and safe deposit boxes, we will have another important tool for investigations and for identifying the owners of bank and payment accounts. third, the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism rules will also apply to entities that provide custody and transfer services for virtual currencies was mentioned but also deal in works of art. so we have an important result but a job that cannot be said to be finished. what happened to ablv in latvia cannot be considered a small incident and all this shows that there is still a long way to go and we will be very determined to move towards a european fiu system and to ask the ecb to do everything possible even with its present powers. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. it's not so natural. i believe that secrecy and illegality often go hand in hand, as the rapporteur kariņš has rightly pointed out, when he said that 'thieves love the dark'. transparency and legality are conditions for the proper functioning of the economy and business and i believe that the fact that europe is equipped with advanced legislation should be an example for all jurisdictions and we naturally hope that those who want to leave the european union will not agree with her on this view of secrecy of money transfers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize the progress made with the current revision of the fourth anti-money laundering directive, especially in terms of greater transparency on the beneficial owners of companies and trusts. however, the agreement reached with the council could have been more ambitious. finally, the registers of beneficial ownership of companies will be fully accessible to the public, but as my colleague marco valli, the shadow rapporteur on this dossier, has already pointed out, we would have preferred total transparency: the commission considers that the measure is selective because it does not fulfil the conditions laid down in article 107 (1) of the treaty. however, it is good that ngos and investigative journalists will be able to access it, thanks to the broader definition. in the negotiations with the council, some important provisions which were in the parliament's text were also removed, such as countermeasures in the event of failure to identify beneficial owners or the strengthening of sanctions against infringements of the directive. the fight for full transparency and a more rigorous fight against money laundering therefore remains open and we cannot therefore let our guard down.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also congratulate the rapporteur, mr dalton, on the result achieved, although, to be honest, i consider myself moderately satisfied, because the initial project could have been much more ambitious. it is true that we have partially overcome the conflicts of interest between the controller and the controlled; we have strengthened market surveillance, with a minimum target of annual checks on new vehicles, real vehicles and therefore not prototypes. we have the ability to impose fines for any non-compliance. you can't say you didn't know, thanks to cross-checks. but we haven't completely broken that link between controlled and controller. we would have preferred a system which did not allow the car manufacturers to finance the laboratories which provide technical assistance for type-approval and, moreover, we would have wanted all european citizens to be able to benefit from the same system of compensation throughout europe, which is not yet the case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken two and a half years, partly because of the resistance of large interest groups and the blocking positions of some member states, to reach an agreement which will establish the most satisfactory rules which should prevent the recurrence of another volkswagen scandal. a conniving type-approval system, with clear conflicts of interest between car manufacturers and national control agencies, often privately funded by them, will eventually be replaced by a more effective system of supervision and control, with powers also of the european commission. the latter will finally have an independent role as a genuine guarantee body, with the possibility of carrying out road emission tests and periodic inspections of motor vehicles already on the market. the proposal also marks a major step forward in consumer rights: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we didn't get what we wanted. however, the fact that owners of non-compliant cars are not obliged to bear the costs of repairs or recalls is a good result. the double message from the european parliament today is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid the recurrence of scandals such as dieselgate in the future, this regulation is undoubtedly a step forward. but i think there is still a lot to be done, particularly in terms of transparency and consumer protection. the possibility of carrying out independent checks on type-approved cars is still limited and european citizens cannot benefit from a uniform system of compensation throughout the union. we cannot afford to let our guard down, and this is another area where we must act to protect the health of our citizens and the environment: we need to ensure that the co2 emissions measured in the laboratory match those in the real world. the gap between laboratory and simulated emissions is currently 40%, and it will widen if we do not solve this problem with road tests. that is why, as the five star movement, we will continue to fight for the introduction of a real driving emissions verification procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the automobile industry accounts for 6.4% of gross domestic product and generates two and a half million jobs in the european union. the volkswagen case has highlighted all the shortcomings in the implementation of the type-approval rules for motor vehicles in the european union, in particular with regard to emission standards. the world health organization has repeatedly stated that exhaust gases from diesel engines are carcinogenic. the fraud committed by car manufacturers has not only been harmful to health and the environment, but also - and to a considerable extent - to public finances. it is estimated that the misrepresentation of waste gases has created a tax loss of more than eur 46 billion in europe. this regulation creates the conditions for effective application of community legislation and effective market surveillance. the quality of testing is improved, in particular by improving the provisions on type-approval authorities. now we must act quickly to implement: the citizens' trust and health are at stake and time is running out!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that i cannot share the appreciation expressed by my colleagues. the result we have achieved, from our point of view, is essentially a compromise downwards, and that is because the commission, despite having presented an ambitious proposal, has decided to give in to the pressure of the countries of northern europe, more than anything else. so we're not happy with this solution, because we think it's more about labeling more organic than making more organic: and that's a big difference. we've taken a huge step backwards in terms of contamination by unauthorized substances. those who buy organic expect a zero-waste product: they don't want contamination from pesticides or banned substances. so, while we understand the need of farmers not to be penalized if their produce is contaminated, perhaps, by neighbouring driftwood, we would have preferred a different solution: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that organic farming and organic products are, of course, a growth sector, as several colleagues have said. and i think it is right that we are now giving a positive boost to the sector, and a lot of what is in this new legislation is actually sensible and will also lead to the sector getting a new boost. but there is a german proverb that says: "a good thing needs a good reason", and i have the impression that we do not need to discuss "a good reason". it took us a whole legislative term to do this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when it comes to pesticide residues, there's no such thing as a "good thing". that means we have maintained a solution that we already have. there are countries in the european union which do not know the difference between organic and conventional products when it comes to residues, and then there are countries such as my own country, italy, where there are much stricter regulations. and i'm wondering, or at least it raises some questions: is this compatible with the single market? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we still don't have any. we'll have to believe what happens abroad. and the most important question is: how do we explain this to a consumer who actually expects something different from an organic product? there is no doubt that some have won here. i think it's going to be a pyrrhic victory in the long run.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after more than four years since the proposal for a new organic regulation was tabled, this house is finally preparing to vote on the agreement reached by our negotiators. while recognizing the need to update the previous regulation, especially in the light of the considerable growth of the sector, both in terms of area and turnover, the outcome of the negotiations represents, unfortunately, for us a missed opportunity. in fact, despite the fact that parliament's mandate called for encouraging the sustainable development of organic production, ensuring fair competition for farmers and operators in the sector and improving consumer confidence, the final agreement represents a downward compromise, having failed to set any threshold for pesticide residues and now risking creating forms of unfair competition between companies in different member states and seriously threatening organic production in those countries which, like italy, are distinguished by having more stringent legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade the area of land devoted to organic farming has more than doubled: every year, 500,000 hectares of land are converted. however, the legislative framework has not evolved adequately. although parliament has called for the promotion of sustainable development in organic production, fair competition for farmers, the prevention of fraud and the improvement of consumer confidence in organic products, the agreement reached in the trilogue after more than two years of negotiations is, in my view, lacking in ambition. the most critical points are the lack of harmonisation between the various member states as regards the thresholds for contamination by non-authorised substances and the possibility of marketing the organic product even if it is accidentally contaminated with pesticides. in terms of control, however, there has been positive progress. the agreement provides for the application of the same rules to producers in the european union and to those in third countries who wish to sell their products on the european market. the so-called compliance system means that producers outside the eu will finally have to comply with the same standards as european farmers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the application of the treaty provisions relating to national parliaments (2016/2149(ini)) (a8-0127/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i am taking this point this evening on behalf of the first vice-president, mr timmermans, who unfortunately cannot be here. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rangel, and this house for the opportunity to discuss the implementation of the treaty provisions concerning national parliaments and for the important amount of fact finding and analysis that fed the preparation of the report. national parliaments play an essential role in bringing the union closer to the people by both scrutinising the activity of their own government at european level and engaging with the european institutions. on the specific example of the european semester, the commission shares your views that national parliaments should be more closely involved in the preparation and approval of the national reform programmes and of the stability and convergence programmes. currently only a few parliaments have the possibility to vote on these programmes, but this is a matter of national institutional organisation. as for the dialogue with the commission, i would like to stress that national parliaments have not yet taken full advantage of the rights to request direct exchanges with the commission on semester-related matters. commissioners are available for discussion with national parliaments, as with the european parliament. i also agree with the report’s assessment that national parliaments of an important role to play to curb gold-plating of eu legislation by member states. the european union is often blamed for imposing rules and burdens which do not derive from eu legislation but from national legislation and, when transposing directives, national parliaments should take responsibility and explain to the people when elements are added which go beyond the requirements of eu union law. we recognise that sometimes gold-plating can be positive, for example, to improve coherence with or the performance of national law. but it is important for people to know who did what and why. the commission believes the subsidiarity and proportionality must be important and must be at the heart of the european democratic process. in line with our better regulation agenda, the commission invests great effort in ensuring that our proposals respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. while the treaties provide that national parliaments ensure compliance only with the principle of subsidiarity, the commission also checks to complaints of its initiatives with the principle of proportionality in a thorough manner. so, when replying to opinions or reasoned opinions of national parliaments, we address both subsidiarity and proportionality issues as well as all other issues, political as well as technical, that are raised by the parliaments in their opinions. the fact that the yellow-card mechanism has only been triggered three times so far may be an indicator that our efforts to check the compliance of envisaged legislative proposals with both principles well before their adoption actually are working. the commission is open to discussing these issues with national parliaments on how to improve our working arrangements on the subsidiarity-control mechanism. the task force on subsidiarity, proportionality and doing less more efficiently is currently reflecting on how to improve the practical functioning of this mechanism. i would like to stress that the commission is always happy to discuss ideas from new eu initiatives from national parliaments as part of the political dialogue. in 2015 and 2016, the commission give detailed replies to so-called green cards that it had received. these were on food waste and on corporate social responsibility. given the dynamism of the political dialogue, i do not see any need for creating a formal process that could be difficult to reconcile with the current treaties’ provisions. finally, i would like to underline that the commission is always happy to contribute to inter-parliamentary events and will be open to contributing to a european week such as is envisaged in this report. once again i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and to thank the house very much for its attention and keen interest in this very important issue.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we believe that national parliaments and the european parliament have a complementary role to play within the union: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the democratic deficit of the union is all too often referred to in the member states and in their assemblies. but we have to ask ourselves whether at national level all the possible tools that are already available are really being used. as some colleagues have said, would it not be more judicious to encourage better cooperation and coordination between national parliaments and their governments? the governments should explain their positions better in the council so that their parliaments can react, and the report goes in that direction too. the council itself should perhaps also be more transparent, making it easier to monitor the work of parliaments. in particular, of course, parliamentary scrutiny of national governments is the cornerstone of the role that national parliaments must play and it is necessary, for example, to achieve a higher degree of scrutiny of the parliaments themselves but also, by the european parliament, of the fiscal and economic policies of the union. the idea in the report is that this european parliamentary week should be created, bringing together national members of parliament, members of the european parliament and commissioners, and that regular debates should be held between the ministers concerned and the specialised committees of the national parliaments before and after the council meeting. it would also be important to exploit the full potential of the interparliamentary conference within the framework of the treaty on stability, governance and economic policy coordination. we believe it is important to strengthen our national action in the european semester. as the rapporteur has said, we disagree on some aspects of the report, but we disagree on the whole of the report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i think of the european union's competition policy, i can understand why support for this project among european citizens has reached an all-time low in recent years and at the present time. let me give you an example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of state aid, a subject which is very much debated today and on which the commissioner has worked a lot. it is a subject which often affects and punishes those small realities in the states and regions of europe which are in serious difficulty. i am referring to the case of more than 300 small businesses and artisans in abruzzo, a region of my country that was hit by a terrible earthquake in 2009 and which today, following a state aid decision by the european commission, after almost ten years, are being asked to return aid for relief granted by the italian state to these companies affected by the earthquake. without this money, these businesses would have closed, jobs would have been lost and they would no longer exist today. if these entrepreneurs are called upon to return the money in question, we shall have a loss of jobs, we shall have drama on top of drama. i ask the european union to show once again that it really cares about the interests of the citizens, of the european people, of the italian people, and not to get bogged down by technicalities, by rules that can be interpreted, but to really show that there is a soul behind this europe and to help these entrepreneurs who are currently having difficulty continuing to operate in a territory already devastated by a major catastrophe.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me thank first of all ms regner, the co-rapporteur, as well as the chair of the committee on legal affairs, mr svoboda, for this question. this is an important file and this proposal presented by the commission in 2016 is a key element in fighting base erosion and profit-shifting. the council has worked a lot on the text of the proposal. more than 15 meetings of the relevant working party took place under four successive presidencies. in february this year, mr svoboda and mr gualtieri wrote to our ambassador inquiring about the state of play and insisting on a possible speeding—up of our deliberations. we replied to this letter, recalling that there are unresolved political issues which still prevent agreement in the council. one of these issues is the legal base of the proposal. indeed this aspect calls into question the very applicability of the ordinary legislative procedure in this file. the bulgarian presidency has taken over the results of the technical work, which was well advanced under the successive presidencies that preceded us. so we are currently pursuing consultations with delegations with a view to further advancing the file. but you will understand that i cannot make any specific commitments today. however, the council will probably need more time in order to clarify its position. i commit myself to keeping you informed of any further developments and i hope that we will be able to find a solution. let me assure you that we are working on it.
i have listened very carefully to the council representative and i must say, madam minister, that your reply was completely inadequate, i would say completely shocking, and i reject it absolutely. it was basically just an excuse. it was just an excuse, whereas in a situation where there is a proposal for a directive which is to be adopted in the public interest and which, as you yourself have said, will help to combat tax fraud, the council is doing everything possible to ensure that, for subsidiary reasons, this directive is not adopted. and you didn't give any argument as to why that is. don't be mad at me, but arguing a dispute over the legal basis is just an excuse, an attempt to block the discussion of this matter and its acceptance. it would be much more fair if those countries which do not want to adopt this directive made it clear that they do not agree with it politically, that they do not want information on large multinational companies with regard to their tax obligations and levies to be made public, and voters and eu citizens could make themselves clear. i too, madam minister, cannot explain to my constituents in the czech republic what a dispute over the tax base is and why some member states in the council are refusing such important information intended to combat tax fraud. it is a very sensitive subject, i think, and it would be fair, please, for those states that do not want to publish this information to make it clear and not to make excuses for the legal problems involved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a requirement that cannot be postponed any further. the scandals of recent years have shown that the phenomenon of evasion and avoidance is a very serious one, which has made economic activity and redistribution difficult in all european countries. these companies, while making huge profits, paid very little tax. the commission has therefore decided to introduce a restriction which will oblige them to declare the game: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax system is not distorted. we expect a positive response quickly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is ten months since this parliament adopted its position on the proposal for a directive on state-by-state public reporting, a fundamental instrument in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance at european and global level. a cost-effective transparency tool that would require multinational companies, as european legislation already requires the banking industry, to publish relevant tax information for each jurisdiction in which they operate, starting with how much profit they make and how much tax they pay. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying. lux leaks, panama papers, paradise papers, how many more scandals do we have to wait for before we have a clear answer? this delay is outrageous!
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i really listened carefully and took good note of your remarks. we will continue to work on this file. here i am representing all member states, and i’m not in a position to name any country in the process. i would like to say that it’s not about a lack of urgency in the council, but it is related to the need to search for an agreement, and this requires time and effort from the presidency and also time in capitals for delegations to finalise their positions. as you know, in order to move ahead, we need unanimity in the council. the bulgarian presidency would like to take this file forward and is working towards the same, so – as i said during my intervention in the beginning – we are open to further discussions on the subject, and when we have advanced much more we will organise a meeting on it. personally, i am open to further bilateral discussions and contacts with you.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the commission representative and the council minister. scientific research has freed millions of citizens from the risk of contracting some of the most insidious infectious diseases, because they threaten survival and very often affect quality of life. the large-scale use of immunization practices has contributed to the eradication of many infectious diseases, which have thus been eroded from the epidemiological record for a long time. now the picture has changed: the number of people who get sick, for example, from measles, is increasing and the list of victims is growing painfully, as has happened in italy, romania and also, to a lesser extent, in other countries. european citizens, among others, are the most concerned about the safety and effectiveness of vaccines. the epidemiological data for the period 2008 to 2015 represent the number of europeans who are unsure about vaccination practices and therefore about their efficacy and safety: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i would like to add a few other considerations: if europe is truly the space within which to combat inequalities and return opportunities, then the goal of eradicating disease coincides with the narrative of a europe that counteracts marginalization, poverty and deprivation, freeing up future especially for the most valuable capital: our boys and girls. it also means that europe must take responsibility for reorientating and re-qualifying public spending on health, particularly in this sector, with the awareness that the benefits are certainly greater than the costs, both health and social, because we are investing in health, because we are investing in the quality of life. we call on the european institutions to play a more decisive role in the governance of health policies in order to reverse the current trend of underestimating the benefits of vaccination, which is being called into question by disinformation campaigns that raise doubts about its effectiveness and safety and which, unfortunately, is being speculated on by the most sophisticated of populists. europe therefore has a responsibility for transparent, accurate information, closely linked to pharmacovigilance activities, while strictly respecting the ethical and moral profile of each actor in the system. it is up to europe to call on the member states to honour their commitments, including the promotion of research into new life-saving vaccines and the promotion of vaccination practices in numbers certainly greater than those currently being recorded. it is up to europe to identify any useful intervention which will reduce the cost of acquiring vaccines, so as to make them easily accessible also, and above all, in countries which have greater difficulties in investing and therefore in spending. it is quite clear, commissioner, that the vaccination schedules in europe need to be brought into line with the new challenges of immigration and increased mobility for study, work and even leisure. promote a democratic process that reconnects science with citizens, with the operators of the system, with associations in order to put value on the benefits, clarify doubts, stigmatize any distortions and contamination of the system, freeing it from any suspicion of conflict of interest. that seems to me to be the aim of our discussion and our discussion. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. education is the most effective tool for overcoming doubts and fears. advising and recommending is certainly better than forcing: but making vaccination compulsory may be a necessary step towards the goal of herd immunisation that really makes people safe. the italian experience can provide a useful basis for discussion.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt in the minds of those who speak that vaccines are of enormous benefit, at least for our health and for our quality of life. but there is no doubt that vaccine resistance is increasing, and this has consequences: we're seeing a decline in vaccination coverage, and we're seeing a resurgence of diseases that we thought we had eradicated. this can lead to extreme consequences, as has happened in my country, italy, but also in france, where mandatory vaccination has been introduced. this is an extreme ratio that we must not reach; i think it's a defeat because we have to fight vaccine reluctance with the right communication and information, so that we can build public trust in vaccines, which are a very useful tool, and not through mandatory vaccination. that is why this resolution and the agreement with the european commission are important, but we also call for the pharmaceutical companies to cooperate in not downplaying and confronting the problems openly, so that we have an informed consent and do not simply consider side effects as a small percentage, because for the families affected it is something very important.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to thank both soraya and teresa, our rapporteurs, very much. i think this is a complicated and difficult speech for me today, because i am not speaking as a parliamentarian but as a woman, a woman who has suffered psychological violence, because we are talking about violence not only physical but also psychological. i speak for the many women who have benefited from a restraining order, the validity of which is limited to the country of residence. then the european protection order should be automatic: why do we have to make an additional request? when a state italy, france, germany takes a non-approachment measure, this must be automatically valid throughout europe; why do you have to make additional requests? secondly, women must continue to report. because that 's the problem . women don't report and don't acknowledge what is actually violence, because they let it go. so i believe that we need an even stronger communication and knowledge approach. we can do this at european level, as we must in every member state, and i conclude by saying that yes, there is an internal market, there is free movement of persons, but we must also take action on the european protection order.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this discussion, i’m very glad to be here to discuss the bologna process. this is the right moment, in light of the upcoming bologna ministerial conference in in paris on the 24th and 25th may. i hope to be able to address most of your questions in the limited time available; i will do my best. on the current state and the evolution of the bologna process, much has been achieved in the last 20 years in its three 3 major commitments. first, the three-cycle bachelor-master-doctorate system has been introduced. a common degree structure is one of the most significant achievement of the process. second, there is a common standard for independent quality assurance in higher education, yet high education institutions should benefit even more from approaches offered by quality assurance agencies placed in other european countries, not only their own. and third, the european credit system is in use in most of the countries and has helped greatly for the contribution of diplomas and study periods abroad. these three commitments are key to build the trust which is necessary for learning mobility, cross-border academic cooperation and comparability of higher education systems. based on these achievements, it is clear that the bologna process remains highly relevant, although we know that the implementation of some of the commitments is still uneven across its 48 member countries. and this is the main challenge for now. while the structures are to a large extent in place, though unevenly, we now need genuine implementation at the level of higher education institutions, which governance structures of the bologna process find difficult to reach. this is the main factor hindering affected implementation of the bologna reforms. the yerevan communiqué in 2015 therefore called on the bologna countries to propose a method to improve the implementation of key bologna reforms. the years since then have not been a period of radical change, but more of consolidation. we must use next month’s ministerial conference in paris as an opportunity to stress the need for more even implementation of the bologna commitments and to mobilise member countries and organisations to work together more closely in other words, the commission wishes to provide support to those bologna countries which lag behind in the implementation of the key commitments. in this context, the commission supports the adoption of a new structured peer support process to ensure better implementation and monitoring of the reforms. hopefully, the bologna ministers will also commit to removing the remaining obstacles in their national legislation to cross-border quality assurance. your question also addresses the issue of social inclusion, which is also extremely important in respect of refugees. not enough bologna countries have so far introduced measures to improve the conditions for under-represented and disadvantaged groups to access and to complete higher education. the first step to foster inclusion and improve equity is to collect information on the participation of under-represented groups in higher education. only systemic monitoring can provide evidence on the effectiveness of those measures. for refugees, some countries have specific recognition procedures in place. activities built on erasmus+ funded projects for national academic recognition and information centres, which will improve the consistency of decision-making. the commission has also organised several peer learning activities for member states to share experience and good practice. the next question, on our assistance to countries in their progress towards the bologna commitments: we offer support at eu level, for instance within the erasmus+ programme where we have a targeted call for this purpose. we also assist the bologna process countries that are not part of the erasmus+ programme. they benefit from capacity-building projects, which the commission wishes to intensify in the next phase of the process. they are a key feature of the bologna process. and it is in the eu interest that a less developed system can evolve. you asked how the commission monitors the recognition of the qualification. we have to admit that this is difficult to assess, as it is usually higher education institutions which take those recognition decisions. but aside from the bologna process implementation report, the commission also carries out studies to identify obstacles, areas for improvement and best practices in recognition of qualifications and study periods. for example in 2016. there was a study on obstacles to recognition of skills and qualifications. finally, in terms of giving strategic guidance to the future bologna process, the commission’s recent initiative towards the creation of the european education area is really essential. the main purpose of the european education area is to give a strong boost to learning mobility, to create a europe in which learning, studying and doing research would not be hampered by borders so as to have a continent where spending time in another member states to study, to learn and to work, has become the standard. in addition to expanding learning mobility, this ambition requires a number of concrete policy initiatives. i will mention four of them. first, the proposed networks of european universities will act as role models for the implementation of the innovation in teaching and learning, and for the efficient implementation of the bologna instruments. they will be instrumental to further develop and consolidate the european higher education area and to build synergies with the european research area. second, the planned council’s recommendation for automatic recognition of higher and upper-secondary educational qualifications and learning periods abroad will give new impetus to the implementation of one of the three key commitments of the bologna process and will further expand learning mobility. third, the new eu student card will facilitate both mobility and the recognition process. and fourth, an upcoming recommendation will help ensure that in addition to their mother tongue, young europeans speak two other languages. language knowledge is a pre-requisite for learning mobility. thanks to the european education area, we will be able to advance faster among the european union member states, then among all of the 48 bologna countries. but at the same time, it is clear that the european education area indicates the direction to follow and will give new impetus also to the bologna process. in this context, the commission fully agrees with the european parliament’s call for synergies between those three areas: the european educational area, the european research area and european higher education area. it is expected that in paris, bologna ministers will build on this new momentum.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs krystyna łybacka, on behalf of the s&d group. i believe that at the paris ministerial conference, the first objective, let us remember, of the bologna process, which today involves universities in 48 countries, is that any student enrolled in a european university has the right to graduate and have his or her degree recognized throughout europe. but above all we know that the process is the basis for the construction of this european area of higher education and the achievement of the europe of knowledge. however, after 19 years, we must set some priorities and i am pleased to take up some of the proposals which have now been suggested to the commissioner, because some of them are in that direction. i think the first point is to improve cooperation between the european higher education and research area. i believe that the inclusion of doctoral students in the bologna process is a major step forward, the main link that will also lead to internationalisation and the strengthening of partnerships. but we also need a phase of development of the quality of the processes and also of development of the european higher education area, enhancing the social dimension of higher education. i am glad that the e-card has finally been mentioned as an instrument which i hope will be financed in the next multiannual programme and, in particular, i believe that there is also a call for joint degrees and for funding for european universities. i think that's the step forward.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the basic approach of the bologna process, which also negates many of its positive aspects, is precisely this: the aim is to adapt european education systems with their differences to the needs of a distorted labour market, rather than to create european citizenship. so there are many things that should be changed. there is one, which we believe is particularly urgent, and which we have proposed in an amendment, namely the exclusion of education expenditure from the calculation of the public deficit within the framework of the stability pact. the austerity policies have created a divided europe, they are unpopular and are one of the main causes of the union's crisis of identity and consensus. the cuts in public education imposed by austerity are bound to produce an even more unbalanced and intolerable union for future generations. we must act in this field now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of convergence of the various systems of european institutions is essential for the construction of a europe of knowledge and for the increase in the international competitiveness of community citizens. improving quality requires putting the learner at the centre, giving due importance to the social dimension of education, promoting the inclusion of people with disabilities, refugees and other vulnerable groups, and improving equality in education. the mobility of the less well-off students must be guaranteed and a harmonized system must be adopted, with the result that diplomas will be mutually recognized so that they can be used in a country other than their country of origin. the european education area faces difficult challenges: the european union is facing a serious economic and social crisis, with dramatic levels of unemployment and the increasing marginalization of young people. the forthcoming ministerial conference in paris on the european higher education area is a must-attend opportunity to identify remaining obstacles and possible solutions to support lagging countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that our young people are the people who believe most in the european union and that is why we must certainly facilitate the harmonization of the education system, both for the upper echelons and for the universities. the recognition of professional qualifications is right, but the basis must also be the harmonization of the programme, because the guidelines must be at european level. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the application of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. on the other hand, the so-called erasmus generation is very much focused on us, very much focused on the future in order to make them more and more european, and it is also a good investment for languages. in italy, for example, this should start long before the secondary school age. so this is a very good initiative and we must continue along this line.
in writing. there are still many aspects of the bologna process which prevent the full realisation of the european higher education area which would bring so many tangible benefits. this is why it is essential that the countries participating in the bologna process and the european commission work to facilitate and make effective the mutual recognition of periods of study abroad and related credits, as well as of qualifications acquired for academic or professional reasons. in addition, it is essential to provide for and implement facilitative tools for disadvantaged students, while supporting and encouraging the mobility of students, researchers, teachers and academic staff. education and training are two fundamental aspects not only of the training of citizens with the appropriate intellectual tools to participate in a conscious and critical way in public life, but also to enable them to face the challenges of the world of work in an appropriate way and without frustrating their own aspirations. in conclusion, i am convinced that today, more than ever, it is essential to make massive public investments in education and training systems, especially in those states which have been particularly hard hit by the economic crisis (i am thinking of the countries of southern europe): it is only in this way that we will be able to give our young people a future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the morning of 29 april 2016, during a peaceful protest for cyclists' rights, belarusian activist dzmitry paliyenka was arrested by the police. this 23-year-old is still in babruysk prison, serving an unjust and unjustified sentence. he must spend ten days each month in solitary confinement, his mail is not delivered, contact with the outside is minimal, and the few meetings with his father and lawyer are closely monitored. like dzmitry, many other activists and human rights defenders are imprisoned and subjected to inhuman treatment. their fault: do their jobs, express an opinion. this situation has been going on for 20 years and, despite belarus' timid progress in the eastern partnership, human rights continue to be trampled on. we call on the belarusian authorities to immediately and unconditionally end the censorship of independent journalism, the persecution of activists, bloggers and journalists and, above all, to guarantee the freedom and rights of belarusian citizens and to abolish the unacceptable death penalty, a disgrace for the whole of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of terror in the philippines has reached extremely worrying levels and cannot be tolerated any longer. president duterte's tough war on drugs is bringing with it an alarming number of victims who have fallen under the gunfire of the police and mercenaries, all too often summarily, without trial and without any plausible motivation. a president of a sovereign state who justifies rape, who encourages armed repression of activists and who incites the killing of women cannot be ignored. although the harsh crackdown on drug trafficking and the relentless fight against organized crime are all quite compatible struggles, we are not discussing the end here today but the methods. in the philippines, we are witnessing a frightening number of extrajudicial executions by police and mercenaries, disguised as anti-drug operations. the cost is not borne by the drug lords but, for the most part, by people of low social standing in the poorest neighborhoods of manila. i therefore believe that we must exert all possible pressure on president duterte to put an immediate end to the extrajudicial executions and to ensure that his long list of suspected terrorists is given a fair trial.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "if they obstruct justice, shoot them!" chilling words that the punitive president duterte uttered last august when instructing the police on how to attack human rights defenders and anyone who got in the way of his cleansing of the nation. sadly timely words: over ten thousand deaths, less than half of which were admitted by the police and justified by a reaction to the arrest. duterte's so-called war on drugs continues unabated; justice is consistently denied to thousands of innocent people and their families; the human rights abuses are multiplying beyond measure. there are few activists and journalists left to fight against this rampant violence, and even some of the political class. leila de lima has been illegally detained in manila prison for 14 months: there was no trial, no evidence. we already had a warrant for his arrest. today we must raise our voices and ask the government to release the senator immediately, not to withdraw from the rome statute and to cooperate with the investigations of the international criminal court. the european union must exert all possible pressure to demand that the philippines comply with its international obligations and that president duterte put an end to his outright policy of terror.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current pattern of repression we are witnessing in gaza has reached dramatic levels that can no longer be ignored or justified by the international community. in the two days of protests over the past few weeks, more than 30 people have been killed, in addition to the approximately 2,000 who have already been injured. the israeli army deployed snipers along the border to shoot at protesters trying to reach the fence protecting the border: but in reality, they opened fire on everyone, as evidenced by the dramatic images that have gone around the world. the israeli state's response has proved to be completely disproportionate to the protest demonstrations. i find it disconcerting that the israeli political and military authorities have given the justification that some of the wounded and dead were members of hamas and therefore constituted an immediate danger to israel's security. numerous ngos and un experts have considered that there were no serious threats to the safety of israeli security forces: the use of lethal munitions outside situations of grave danger constitutes a serious violation of international law and human rights. i am sorry to see that the situation in the gaza strip, which is under naval and maritime blockade by israel and where 1.3 million people are suffering from severe material, economic and health deprivation, is a clear example of a violation of the rule of law, certainly by hamas but also and above all by what is considered to be the only democracy in the middle east and which should therefore respect, for example, the fourth geneva convention for the protection of civilians in time of war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to put into perspective the profound significance and the worrying practical consequences for israeli-palestinian relations of what has been happening in the gaza strip in recent weeks, i would like to start with the following tragic figures: since 30 march, the israeli army has killed 25 palestinians who took part in the protests, including three children and a journalist. there are more than 2,000 wounded, including 350 children and 76 women. the israeli army, as reported by numerous agencies, is now also shooting at journalists and i would remind you that shooting at unarmed civilians is a war crime, just as the naval and land blockade of the gaza strip by israel is of absolute gravity, which has turned this strip of land into a humanitarian bomb on which, except in cases of violent deaths, silence often falls from the entire west. we said it and we say it again: the high representative's calls for a two-state solution, which are in fact quite acceptable, cannot be satisfied if nothing is done. we must therefore, as in the west bank, review the eu-israel association agreement if israel persists in its expansionist and discriminatory policies towards the entire palestinian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the speeches by my colleagues, i can only appeal to commissioner malmström, who is representing the commission here: palestinian lives are not worth less than the lives of others. we cannot talk about israel's security when 30 unarmed protesters are killed, when israeli snipers are shouting "wow!" at the fact that a human life is being taken. we cannot make the respect of human rights conditional on political alliances which should be called into question, as the association agreement between the european union and israel should be called into question, since israel does not respect un resolutions and does not respect fundamental human rights. finally, i call on the italian government to prevent the giro d'italia from leaving israel: it is yet another provocation, something which once again offends the dignity of the palestinian people. the giro d'italia must not start from israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the blockade of the gaza strip is now in its eleventh year and living conditions are reaching unsustainable levels. 47% of households are food insecure; 97% of the water supply is not drinkable; 40% of the population is unemployed. the strip, according to the united nations, could become uninhabitable by 2020. is it any wonder that thousands of palestinians have started a mass protest on the border with israel? i'm not sure. we must instead be outraged by the blood that has been shed: 30 dead, over 2,000 wounded, all palestinians, with israeli authorities firing directly into the crowd on several occasions. we want an independent and transparent inquiry, but we are even more demanding respect for the fourth geneva convention, which has been flagrantly violated. in the future, when new generations study history, they will ask how it was possible that almost two million people, for more than ten years, lived in the worst open-air prison in the world, and they will judge us: we will be judged for our silence and we will be judged for not suspending this agreement. this blockade must end!
on behalf of the efdd group. the regulation we have voted on on organic production and labelling of organic products makes important efforts and guarantees, for example, on improving the quality of food, protecting the environment and ensuring animal welfare throughout the production chain. it also sets out important basic principles: the prohibition of the use of chemical pesticides and synthetic fertilizers and the restriction of the use of antibiotics. but what will the actual results be? we believe that there will be a shortage of them because the pesticide residue thresholds will be lower than those used now in many member states, for example in italy. in doing so, we have lowered the existing standards, effectively penalising the more conscientious farmers. consumers should be properly informed and their judgement held accountable, not misled by fake organic labels. that is why we voted against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the issue of vaccines, together with the tools made available by the media, particularly the social media, have created a situation of total misinformation, which has then led to an aversion to vaccines, which are an indispensable scientific tool for preventing and eradicating the many diseases that our world has overcome over the years. i also think that the need to get students, parents and the world around communication to understand this is critical because the coverage that the world health organization recommends for us to be able to be calm and safe is 95 percent of the population. to go below this threshold would be to jeopardize the health of our children and, above all, to fail to guarantee the level of scientific coverage that we have achieved so far.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 april 2018.
before i open the plenary session, i would like to express on behalf of this parliament our deepest condolences to the families and victims of the recent religious persecutions and terrorist attacks. the genocide of christians is not stopped. after the murder of a priest in the philippines, a christian church in the central african republic was attacked yesterday, killing at least 10 people. this parliament says enough. we cannot resign ourselves to seeing people slaughtered for merely professing their faith. we must continue to make our voices heard. (applause) i would like to thank we must also be vigilant in the fight against terrorism. the horrendous slaughter of isis in afghanistan and boko haram in nigeria is proof of this. on monday, two vile terrorist attacks in kabul and kandahar killed over 25 people, including 11 children. journalists and aid workers were among the dead. in an attack on a mosque and a market in nigeria yesterday, boko haram killed more than 60 innocent people. that is why we need an ever stronger union on the international scene. we have the objective of fighting terrorism and promoting peace and stability. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to inform you that today, in the diplomatic gallery, there is a delegation led by his holiness patriarch filaret, patriarch of kiev and all ukraine. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to thank your holiness for being here today. his presence sends a strong message in favour of dialogue and peace. (applause) it is an honour to welcome you to the european parliament.
i would like to inform the house that on thursday i will be signing, together with the president of the council, an act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with rule 78 of parliament's rules of procedure. the title of this document will be published in the minutes of this sitting. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
but i ask you, when you ask to speak on a point of order, to respect the rules of procedure.
as you know, the resolution has been forwarded to the turkish authorities.
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 19 april 2018. the following amendments were tabled: wednesdaythe european people's party group asked for a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the situation in venezuela to be added as the third item on the agenda. the debate should conclude with a resolution, which will be put to the vote on thursday.
mr gonzález pons, i understand that you are asking for a debate, with agreement with mrs ska keller, without a resolution and, after the debate, a statement by the president summarizing the text of the resolution voted on a long time ago in this house. this was mr gonzález pons' proposal?
ms keller, there is a proposal from mr gonzález pons. the proposal is: a debate without resolution with a declaration of the president, in agreement with the last resolution approved by the european parliament. do you agree, or shall we vote?
mr gonzález pons, in order to have the debate with a resolution, asks that this be in fact an urgent debate, which is the only way to have the resolution. mr ska keller says that otherwise, if you do not ask for urgency, we cannot, and i think mr ska keller is right, have a discussion with resolution. we must first vote on whether the house wants an urgent debate on this matter, and then on a resolution. if that does not pass, we shall proceed to the debate without resolution. let us now vote on whether we have an urgent debate with a resolution on the venezuelan case. (parliament adopted the resolution)
unless it's an emergency discussion. mr permuy, you are repeating what mr ska keller has already said in a very clear and simple way. i agreed with mr ska keller on the debate, but mr gonzález pons has asked for an urgent debate. the urgent debate authorizes the resolution, and so it shall be. motions for resolutions must be tabled by 6 p.m. on wednesday, amendments to motions for resolutions and joint motions for resolutions by 8 p.m. on wednesday 2 may, amendments to joint motions for resolutions by 9 p.m. on wednesday 2 may, requests for separate or split votes by 11 p.m. on wednesday 2 may. *****the eu group asked that, after the council and commission statements on persecutory crime and the protection of victims in the eu, statements by the council and the commission on the application by spain of international standards on the definition of sexual violence in the light of the recent 'la manada' case be added. i give the floor to mr gonzález peñas to present the request on behalf of the gue group.
we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the gue/ngl group. (parliament adopted the resolution) the council and commission statements on spain's application of international standards on the definition of sexual violence in the light of the recent 'la manada' case are added to the agenda after the council and commission statements on persecutory crimes and the protection of victims in the eu. the green group/european free alliance has asked for a commission statement on the us steel and aluminium tariffs and the eu response to be added to the agenda.
from what i understand, mr. ska keller always thinks before he speaks. you can be for or against, but i don't think you're talking without thinking. we now move to the roll call vote. (parliament rejected the request) the following was added to the vote on thursday: objection in accordance with article 106: genetically modified sugar beet h7-1. are there any objections? the amendment is approved. (the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes a discussion on the commission statement on the commission decision on the post-2020 mff package (2018/2594 ((rsp)). i thank president juncker for agreeing to present the proposal on the new multiannual financial framework and own resources to the plenary rather than to the press. i thank him again, and i thank commissioner oettinger, for this gesture of sensitivity and respect towards parliament. i think it is right that parliament should always be the natural place to announce such important proposals, since the representatives of the people sit in this house. i also thank all the political groups and members for agreeing to this change in time.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal you have tabled today shows once again how far the european union is from the demands of the citizens and i do not think it is surprising looking at what has been written that today the support for the european union project is at an all-time low among european citizens. this proposal lacks realism. once again, where, with the elections, european citizens are demanding the return of so many competences at national level, the commission - despite the withdrawal of the united kingdom - is imposing and demanding an increase in the multiannual financial framework. the citizens will always have to pay, whether through higher national taxes or through what you call 'own resources', which are nothing but additional taxes; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the roaming charges are not exceeded. another point, mr president juncker: you and commissioner oettinger have said that some of the points in this proposal are not intended to punish individual member states or certain member states. well, looking at these proposals in particular, it seems that the reduction in cohesion policy appropriations and the linking of certain funds to respect for the rule of law are aimed at punishing some member states, especially in eastern europe, which in recent years have not aligned themselves with the centralist vision of the union. punishing those who do not conform, mr juncker, is typical of dictatorships, and much more is expected of those who believe they are defending the principles of democracy. another point is the item on security and defence, which concerns a considerable marketa to the new europeanist hero macron. the last point concerns something that is very close to the hearts of the citizens: administrative costs. in your proposal, administrative costs will increase by 15 billion euros. is that the example we want to set for the citizens of europe?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in this budget, which has just come to us and which we shall therefore be examining carefully later, there are considerable cuts in items which are important for a number of citizens of the european union, starting with the common agricultural policy: it's about a 5% cut. this cut must be deliberate and not linear, because it could affect small farmers and we do not want that to happen, because we must support small farmers and find ways of eliminating inefficiency and contributions to the big ones. as far as cohesion is concerned, there is also a 7% cut. we must also consider carefully how to cut back, because there are areas of the eurozone - especially southern italy, the periphery - which still need this aid to catch up with the rest of europe, and we must not have linear cuts here either, but we must weigh the cuts carefully. finally, on support for structural reforms: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want the reforms that should be rewarded to be those aimed at wage devaluation and at implementing reforms that go, for example, towards a reduction in pensions and everything that is unpopular and that the citizens do not want. so we must not create these bounties in exchange for reforms, we must create real compensatory instruments, or the european union will not be able to withstand the next crisis and will be demolished, precisely because of this inability to resolve asymmetric and symmetric shocks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think this is an interesting and important starting point, even if we are stressing some critical aspects. we strongly believe that our agriculture - which is strategic, which is fundamental to the european system - should not be affected so severely and therefore i believe that there should be a review, a review of the percentage that has been allocated. we cannot allow our small and mediumsized farmers to suffer even more in view of the seriousness of the situation. but we also strongly defend the cohesion policy, which is designed to combat disparities between the territories, those territories which are penalized, but also and above all the disadvantaged islands to which we owe compensation. i think we need to reassess the criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. good on web tax; good on innovation, research and technology; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming multiannual financial framework, as president juncker has rightly said, is of paramount importance for the future of the european union. after a period of stasis, it will help us to understand our real ambitions in relation to a dream which, if it does not move forward, is bound to retreat. the current mff has proved insufficient to meet the real policy needs of the union, as a result of unforeseen crises and new challenges in the areas of investment, migration and refugees, youth employment, security, agriculture and the environment. i welcome the provision of new and increased own resources, and i share the new resources identified for the immigration problem, security and defence, innovation, the life and erasmus+ programmes, but i find it difficult to understand the proposed cuts to cohesion policies and the cap. it is true that europe has many challenges to face, but cuts in agriculture and cohesion policy are absolutely unacceptable.
i would like to thank commissioner oettinger again for his answers to the questions put by the members. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their joint work and for the text they produced, and the eib, the european investment bank, for making its services available to me and my colleagues. the eib is the largest public bank in the world by volume and plays an important role, as does the cont committee, in promptly highlighting - often with harsh but constructive criticism - the aspects necessary for the improvement of institutions. the eib group's total lending in 2016 alone, the year covered by this report, amounted to eur 83,8 billion, with total investment mobilization in the same year amounting to eur 280 billion. i would like to start with investments for small and mediumsized enterprises. smes play a key role in the european economy, generating jobs and wealth and promoting innovation: they account for over 90% of all businesses in the eu and employ two thirds of the working population. supporting access to finance for smes and midcaps must therefore remain a key priority for the european investment bank and the eib must do more to support europe's small businesses. as regards the efsi, i would first of all like to stress the importance of the additionality criteria, which must be duly documented - something which did not happen in the context of efsi 1.0. this parliament has fought hard for additionality and it is a fundamental criterion. i therefore stress the importance of transparency with regard to the efsi indicator framework and therefore welcome the fact that the efsi indicator framework will be made public by regulation under efsi 2.0. we want to have parameters on social, environmental, real and actual economic interest in approving investments under this type of instrument. however, it is worrying that only 20% of efsi funding has supported projects contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation, while the eib's standard portfolio has reached the 25% threshold. these are investments which must be directed towards reducing emissions. the report then mentions some specific projects. i am particularly concerned about the eib financing of the trans adriatic pipeline project, which does not meet the minimum environmental and social standards of the equator principles, to varying degrees in the transit countries (albania, greece and italy). i would also remind you that the dieselgate scandal has raised a number of questions about volkswagen's obtaining eib loans by fraudulent and deceptive means, and it is good that the eib is implementing olaf's recommendations on taking concrete action in implementing its anti-fraud policy. on transparency and accountability, i welcome the publication of the minutes of the eib's board of directors and in this regard i urge you to publish the minutes of the management committee meetings. it is necessary to provide for stricter rules on conflicts of interest and clear, rigorous and transparent criteria to avoid any form of corruption. i also welcome the proposals of the eib's ethics and compliance committee on corporate governance and transparency, such as the introduction of ethics issues within its remit. i also stress the importance of strengthening the obligations of integrity after termination of employment and of providing for concrete sanctions for potential cases of 'revolving doors' between senior eib managers and the private sector. i call on the eib to swiftly apply relevant eu legislation and rules on tax avoidance, tax havens and other related issues and to require its clients to comply with these rules and to prevent more effectively the risks of corruption and organised crime infiltration. i leave the floor to my colleagues to open the debate and i am also prepared for further consideration in the follow-up to be given at the end.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you all for the compliments, it was a good job we did together and i see a broad cross-cutting consensus, especially on some issues, including the need to increase investment for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy, and especially innovative start-ups that can generate jobs, especially in innovative sectors, and which can therefore make a significant contribution to growth in the euro area and the european union in general. as far as the efsi is concerned, parliament has already spent a great deal of time calling for the criteria of additionality to be defined in a concrete way in regulation 2.0. so we want these criteria to be applied, we want the whole question of environmental, social (because it is important that there be a social impact, with the creation of jobs) and economic impact to be made transparent (that is, we want the criteria for economic sustainability to be in place and we do not want to finance projects that are a black hole for public funds, because the guarantee of the european investment bank is public). tax transparency: i would like to say, and we all agree on this point, that the european investment bank should not encourage transactions in tax havens and with companies which prove incapable of managing their internal dimension of tax transparency issues in a transparent manner. conflicts of interest and revolving doors: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards geographical redistribution, it is essential that there be more investment in certain countries and it is essential that these countries have the structures to be able to attract this investment, namely the promotion banks in the territory. if they implement these types of structures, they will certainly see more investment coming into the territory. i want to thank you all again for the great job you've done.
in writing. the european investment bank is the largest bank in the world by volume and plays a key role in socio-economic integration and cohesion within the european union. i find the report overall satisfactory, as it provides a comprehensive analytical picture of the critical points and weaknesses of the eib's activities, particularly as regards the need to improve the prevention of conflicts of interest by defining stricter rules and more rigorous and transparent criteria in order to avoid any form of corruption. i welcome the fact that the eib has been asked to provide a more harmonised, comprehensive and detailed annual report on its investment activities and expected impact. in particular, i welcome the request that the bank improve the presentation of information, including a detailed and reliable description of the investments approved, signed and disbursed, as well as information on the beneficiaries and the specification of the sources of funding committed and the sectors supported, including the results of the ex post evaluations. i hope that the evaluations and recommendations made in this report will be followed up and put into practice. i congratulate my colleagues on the excellent work they have done.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative (whom i thank for the promptness of her speech), it is truly incredible and grotesque that one should still try to defend a regime which has transformed a country full of natural resources, starting with oil and above all the wealth of hundreds of thousands of emigrants: immigrants from europe, immigrants from italy, people who went to work and made this country great, because venezuela is a great country and has a great people who have created wealth. only the regime of those people has turned it into a poor country, where there is no freedom. they should be ashamed and at least be silent, instead of criticising the european parliament, which should be asked to do more, to open the doors of this europe which often opens its doors to the whole world, and which even today hesitates to say that there must be open doors for refugees from venezuela. these are people of our own blood, as our colleague rightly recalled, and they must be given priority. it is a country that needs help, it is a people on the run that we must open our doors to. there's a place at the table for anyone who comes from venezuela fleeing poverty, fleeing dictatorship. elections postponed: they are ashamed of their democracy, they have no right to even talk about democracy.
the report on the protection of the union's financial interests, as mr pargneaux has already pointed out, shows that the total number of reports of fraudulent irregularities has actually decreased. however, it cannot be hidden that the level of fraud against union funds remains high and so do cases of corruption. in this context, the pif directive and the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office are key tools in the fight against crime affecting the financial interests of the union and, consequently, also in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, which are often financed through such crime. in the meantime, however, it is necessary to continue to strengthen the capacity for coordination between national control structures and to ensure that the new olaf regulation provides clear and precise answers on the new system for combating fraud at administrative level and on future relations with the new criminal dimension introduced by the european public prosecutor's office. in this respect, it cannot be overstated that the enhanced cooperation with which the european public prosecutor's office was set up poses considerable challenges to the proper allocation of powers between the criminal and administrative dimensions, particularly in relation to non-member countries. the delicate objective which we must pursue, also through the european public prosecutor's office, is to improve the system for recovering funds illegally embezzled so that this money can be returned to the union budget and used for the needs of our citizens, and i am thinking above all of job creation and increased investment by companies. finally, i think that in this debate too it is important to stress that the role that whistleblowers can play in the fight against fraud should not be underestimated. the importance of their contribution and the sensitivity of their role require a strong commitment from the commission through a legislative proposal which clearly defines their rights and obligations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a special moment for the future of the european union, with the presentation of the next multiannual financial framework, and it is therefore important to discuss the direction we would like to give the european union in the coming years. as you can imagine, we have some concerns about cohesion policy, because we need - as my colleagues have said - adequate resources to cover all the european regions, all the policies that are part of cohesion policy. we know that in the years to come there will be a vertiginous increase in both freight and passenger transport in the various forms available. we can 't let this process go on by itself . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore very important that these investments be allowed and that the financial framework be adequate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, we are grateful to have the opportunity to address this important issue today. let me start by stressing that stalking is harmful behaviour of a complex nature and most often a form of serious psychological gender-based violence that as such can go against our fundamental rights and values such as human dignity and equality. stalking is a matter of great concern and may result in serious emotional suffering and distress. it is most frequently of women, who are threatened by former or current partners and often subject to repeated victimisation. therefore, it requires appropriate attention at all levels from the european union and its member states. our challenge in this respect is both to ensure prevention and repressive measures and to guarantee appropriate protection for the victims of stalking anywhere in the european union. we should place their rights at the centre of all relevant initiatives and actions in our countries and across the union. the council shares the concerns expressed by the european parliament in its report of 14 march 2018 on the implementation of the european protection order directive, in particular as regards cross-border cases, where victims, having obtained protection measures in one member state, move to another member state. there are differences in member states’ legal systems as regards the criminalisation – or not – of stalking and in respect of the protection measures guaranteed. the council believes that, despite these differences, we should pursue the common objective of ensuring adequate and equivalent protection of victims throughout the union. the council has played a significant role both as a co-legislator and within other initiatives in respect of this sensitive issue. the european union legal framework that we have established contains a comprehensive set of rules that, if fully implemented, can contribute to broad and effective protection of victims across the european union. the european protection order may not be applicable to all cases of stalking, as it is not currently recognised as a criminal offence in all member states, but the council shares the view that the expected eu accession to the istanbul convention – and possibly its ratification by member states whih have not yet done so – should contribute to a more effective and coherent response to this form of violence. the european protection order directive has to be considered in conjunction with the victims’ rights directive. that instrument provides for additional protection measures and for procedural rights for victims of crime. however, there are also other eu legal instruments that strengthen the position of victims, namely the compensation directive and the regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. stalking was explicitly mentioned by the council in its conclusions from 2014 on the need to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women. since then, the council has – on several occasions – recalled this commitment and invited member states to sign and ratify the istanbul convention. the council has also taken non-legislative initiatives for victim protection, in particular, the establishment of the european network on victims’ rights aimed at enhancing cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and the access of victims to their rights. as of january this year, envr has a permanent organisation. it held its kick-off meeting on 23-24 april 2018 in budapest. the presidency devotes particular attention to combatting all forms of gender-based violence. as a matter of fact, draft council conclusions on improving police co-operation in combating domestic violence and violence against women are currently being discussed, with particular focus on the protection of vulnerable victims within a multidisciplinary approach. the text of the conclusions draws on replies to a questionnaire which also covered stalking and will be submitted to the justice and home affairs council for adoption on 5 june.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for putting this point on the agenda of the plenary today. the definition of stalking included in the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, in its article 34, is that it is the intentional conduct of seriously impairing a person’s psychological integrity through coercion or threats. stalking can lead to subsequent assault. in all cases, it leaves its victims extremely vulnerable. the istanbul convention obliges member states to criminalise this behaviour, and 19 member states have done so in the process of their ratification of the istanbul convention. all of us here should continue to push for the ratification of the convention by the rest of the member states. i thank all of you who have been active on this issue. i am planning to visit those member states that have not yet ratified the convention. i stand ready to discuss the proposal both with citizens and with political representatives, and i will explain and try to dismantle many myths surrounding it. two of the member states which have not ratified the convention have, however, criminalised stalking. these are the united kingdom and ireland. the commission is aware of the differences in the legal systems of the member states and of the fact that their national protection measures differ in scope, duration and nature. where stalking is classified as a crime under national law, its victims can rely on all rights under the 2012 victims’ rights directive. this means that such victims have a right to access to information, support and protection according to their individual needs. it is therefore crucial that member states treat stalking as a crime. let me underline that the right to have access to victim support services is not dependent on a formal complaint with regard to a criminal offence. this means that, even in the member states that do not criminalise stalking, the victims should receive assistance from those services. for example, they could be guided on how to deal with their situation by other measures, like applying for an injunction order or damages for anxiety and harassment. in addition, under the rules of the european protection order, any victim of stalking who has been granted protection in one eu member state should benefit from protection when she or he travels or moves to another member state. the commission is aware of the fact that the european protection order is rarely used in practice, and this needs to be addressed. national practitioners, law enforcement and judicial authorities should recommit to combating all forms of violence, including stalking. this could, for instance, be achieved by informing or offering the victim the possibility of a european protection order each time the domestic protection measure is adopted. i look forward to hearing your views on this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission and the council for the words you have used in the facts and also in your intentions. i would like to thank especially the colleagues who supported my proposal, which i am of course living in person, along with many other women. you see, the scourge of gender-based violence has continued to be the focus of international attention for several decades now. it's a problem that takes a long time to stop. certainly, much progress has been made, especially at the european union level, through the adoption of legislative provisions to prevent this dangerous conduct: prosecute perpetrators and protect victims and persons at risk by providing them with appropriate services. i am referring, for example, as you have already said, to the european protection order, the so-called 'victims' directive and the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention is the first instrument in europe to establish legally binding rules to prevent, protect and punish this criminal conduct, but it is also the first instrument to intervene and include stalking, defined as "acts of persecution", among the various crimes. stalking is a crime that is often still underestimated legally and, alas, recognized in europe in only 21 of the european countries. this is a problem because we have to make it as homogeneous as possible and we have to harmonize this aspect as much as possible, which unfortunately does not find uniformity, harmonization in all 28 member states. the behaviour we see in stalking, as sadly the daily news reports teach us, even degenerates into further and more serious crimes, such as personal injury and murder. so in the light of this - and i come to the conclusion - i would like to ask you some questions, and i would like to ask the commission what it intends to do. first of all: to intervene with a specific legislative proposal; second: the european arrest warrant is a tool for the european union to use to raise awareness and at the same time, to gain experience of a concrete analysis of the data you have verified, whether to use the european arrest warrant.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens and mutagens. persecution can take on countless forms, but they always have in common an obsessive imprint that leads the victim to fear above all for his own safety, a sense of fear that characterizes daily life, a real limitation on personal freedom. as there are many shapes, so are the executioners. statistics show that the numbers of stalking cases within the walls of the home or after the end of a relationship are high. the control that a spouse, a live-in partner, can exert is enormous and leaves the victim without any place to feel safe. and that is why we also need to pay more attention to migrant women. measures such as protection orders, removal from the family home or a prohibition on approaching places frequented by the family are protective instruments that can make a difference and significantly improve the daily lives of victims, but they cannot be the only possible means. we must provide better legal guarantees for the protection of victims of persecution, and we must take up the good practices that exist in europe - i am speaking here of my own country, italy, for example. we also need a strong investment in education, because the best long-term measure is more effective education and active cultural engagement. we can't wait any longer. we cannot allow such an important subject to be regulated in a way that is not uniform throughout the european union. i would like to conclude by saying that there are still too many countries in the european union today which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention.
we are talking about a phenomenon, the stalking of women, which affected 3.5 million european women in 2016 alone. we know that the istanbul convention, specifically article 34, requires that legislative or other measures be taken against repeated acts of psychological violence, namely stalking. we know that nine countries have not yet ratified the istanbul convention. but let us also ask ourselves what is happening in countries such as italy, which have also ratified the convention. it is for example the case that the offence of non-aggravated stalking is de facto decriminalised by the fact that the conduct can be extinguished by compensating the victim. we think this is shameful, as the italian feminist movement said, as it said "not one less". we know that violence against women is not primarily countered in the courts but through political, social and cultural intervention.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is finally going to take concrete action to combat the crime of stalking, which affects millions of european citizens, particularly women, every year. the data is impressive. 18% of women, or 9 million european citizens, have been victims of persecutory behaviour. one in ten women have been assaulted by a former partner who did not accept the end of the relationship. as we know, we have said, not all member states recognise the crime of stalking in their legislation and even in those states where there is legislation on the subject, it is difficult to enforce the law. that is why we must do more: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is often the case that those who report such crimes find themselves fighting not only against those who are guilty of such crimes but also against the slowness of justice. there are several cases of chronicling, for example in italy, where, despite the various complaints of stalking by the victims to the competent authorities, they were disfigured and beaten by their partners, former partners and in some cases, alas, killed. you have to say no more! so we welcome this action by the commission, because europe has a duty to protect its citizens.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in drafting this resolution. it was a great team effort, an indication of the sensitivity of all the groups to the issue. over 30 000 children arrived in europe in 2017, including many unaccompanied children, who are the most vulnerable because they are at greater risk of abuse, exploitation and violence. since the start of the migration crisis, much has been done at european level to respond to the needs of children and their families, but unfortunately some member states still do not implement the recommendations contained in the commission's communication on the protection of migrant children, presented more than a year ago. it is alarming, for example, to see that in some countries of the union, migrant children are still detained solely on the grounds of their migrant status, and we hope that on this point the council will share and support parliament's position, which has long called for the abolition of this practice and for the provision by the national authorities of community-based reception systems and suitable facilities, separate from those for adults, to house minors, especially unaccompanied minors, and families with children. with the resolution we shall adopt tomorrow, and i hope it will be unanimous, this parliament intends to reaffirm once again the need to ensure that these children are given the necessary protection from the moment they arrive on european territory, by ensuring that they are given a guardian, adequate housing and access to education, health care and all social services. such protection should also be accompanied by procedures for the registration of migrant children, including those for the collection of biometric data, conducted for the sole purpose of their protection, thus excluding the use of coercive measures, in full respect of the un convention on the rights of the child. it is, however, essential for the dismantling of trafficking in human beings and the prevention of the disappearance of children that the union should work towards creating legal and safe channels of immigration with all member states sharing the principle of solidarity and responsibility, at least towards children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing can show the true soul of a society except the way it treats its children, said nelson mandela. this resolution gives clear indications of what the true soul of europe should be: the reception, care and integration of migrant children. they are young people with a past that is hard to forget, but also a present and a future project. we are asking for a series of guarantees and protections for them that go beyond the emergency management of recent years and also legal and safe pathways; we ask that no parent should entrust the fate of their children to desperate journeys. it is therefore necessary to set up humanitarian corridors, to provide for relocation, to speed up family reunification, to apply good practices such as those in my country, whose unremitting work by the institutions, local authorities, associations and civil society gives us the strength to look ahead and also helps us to rediscover the true soul of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this question we want to accelerate a genuine common european strategy to define a framework for the protection of migrant children in europe on the basis of the convention on the rights of the child: it is our duty, particularly with regard to unaccompanied minors. there are currently 15 000 in italy alone. that is why we have passed a new law in my country, which we have presented to the intergroup on children, and which takes up many of the points in our resolution tomorrow: a common system of rapid identification upon arrival, no detention, persons assigned to each hotspot, standard reception conditions, legal assistance, health care, access to education, irrespective of their status, but above all appointment of guardians and possibility of family custody, family reunification. in addition, in order to prevent trafficking, we must provide for forms of protection and monitoring in the framework of partnerships with third countries.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2009 we have had bans in europe on animal testing in the cosmetics sector and on the marketing of cosmetic products and ingredients tested on animals: the commission has also proposed to amend the existing rules on the protection of personal data by the use of the following measures: i say 'should' because we know - and my colleagues have also mentioned this - how difficult it is to have a full enforcement of this ban. there are many loopholes and loopholes in the legislation, not least the fact that we often do not have full information on products from third countries or ingredients that are tested and retested because they are also subject to other european regulations, such as reach. it is, however, an important step forward for the european union in the protection of animals, but not only that, but also in the protection of other economic developments, in the protection of human health. but now we must go further and support the conclusion of a global agreement to ban this practice, which is sadly practised in 80% of the countries of the world. we must listen to the millions of people who are calling for us to work towards an international moratorium, and these millions of people are also making themselves heard through, for example, petitions. there are a great many petitions to the european parliament which call for a global ban. i think the european parliament is ready and is strong and consistent in its demands. i hope that the member states and the commission will be ready to ban animal testing in the cosmetics sector on the international scene and to take a leading role in the negotiations that are to follow. i hope so, because the expectations of the european people will soon be met.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as yesterday's labour day celebrations reminded us, white deaths in europe continue to be an unacceptable problem, especially in the agricultural sector, where unfortunately the number of deaths at work is constantly increasing. as vice-president mcguinness has rightly pointed out, and i thank her for this, the measures taken so far by the european union and the member states appear to be wholly inadequate to counteract a trend which is due to the decline in agricultural profitability, which does not always allow for the adaptation and technological upgrading of mechanization. our farmers need sound and adequately funded policies which, together with better vocational training, will support them in making all the investments necessary to carry out their activities in complete safety. it is precisely in view of this, mr commissioner, that we hope that the debate which has begun today on the future financial framework - as well as the debate which is now about to begin on the future cap - will lead to an effective and genuinely common policy which safeguards not only the environmental dimension but also that of safety at work on farms.
member of the commission. – mr president, before i refer to ms herranz garcía’s report, can i say to my friend, mr andrieu, that the 5% cut in the common agricultural policy (cap) budget today is not unprecedented, that is untrue, it’s actually fake news. you shouldn’t be looking at farm europe on the website because they are giving you the wrong information. i look forward to france being very strong supporters of getting member states, particularly denmark, the netherlands, sweden and austria in unanimity in order to do more, so that we can reduce this particular impact on our farmers. i look forward to the leadership of france in this regard. mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur, ms herranz garcía, for her report on the sheep and goat sector. this report rightly highlights the very specific features that are associated with this type of farming in the eu. recognising the contribution of the sheep sector as well as its vulnerability, i established a sheepmeat forum in the autumn of 2015 to provide our stakeholders, together with my services, with the opportunity to discuss the challenges and opportunities that face the sector. ms herranz garcía’s report is another valuable contribution to the discussion about this important sector. the commission shares the rapporteur’s view in regard to the importance of small ruminants, not only for producing a whole range of market goods like meat, milk, wool and skins, but also in relation to landscape conservation, the fight against countryside desertification and the preservation of our cultural heritage. maintaining current production levels in sensitive sectors is one of the reasons why the cap foresees the possibility for member states to provide voluntary coupled support for the sheep sector. the report’s suggestion to increase this level of support has to be seen in the context of the proposals for the future cap. promotion is a key element for a product like sheepmeat that is comparatively more expensive than others. i have therefore decided that sustainable sheep and goat production is a priority for the 2018 annual work programme of eu promotion for agricultural products and i have allocated eur 2 million for national programmes and eur 4 million for multi-member state programmes, and these figures have been ring-fenced for promotion campaigns on the internal market, on the sustainable aspects of sheepmeat production. in an effort to improve market transparency, the commission has established a dedicated sheep and goatmeat dashboard, which is published on its website. this gives regular market updates and provides stakeholders with information about the main market developments inside and outside the eu. strengthening the farmers’ position in the food chain is also important. since january 2018 the sector can benefit from new rules on producer cooperation that are contained in the omnibus regulation, but they also relate to public goods. the omnibus has also played its part here in changing the definition in terms of permanent grassland and this will help some countries, in particular spain, portugal, italy, greece and the south of france. unfair trading practices, of course, are also impactful on the meat sector, particularly the sheepmeat sector where operators are operating in a highly fragmented sector, such as this one. the commission appreciates that the potential of the sheep sector could be heavily impacted by brexit. in the sheep sector the uk plays a central role as a producer and also as an importer and in intra-european union trade. the european union and the uk, as ms mcguinness has asked, have recently presented a proposal to the world trade organisation (wto) to allow for the proportionality of the tariff rate quotas (trqs) to be shared out in line with what they are today. the first countries that actually objected to this were the united states, australia and new zealand, and these are supposed to be the best friends of the united kingdom when it comes to a future trading relationship. if you have friends like that, it’s not easy to resolve these issues in relation to tariff rate quotas. ms herranz garcía’s report highlights the importance of the sheep and goat sector as a provider of public goods. supporting it is in the interest of all of us. i welcome a report that will give, pardon the pun, food for thought. once the commission proposals for the cap are tabled a greater focus on performance will no doubt be beneficial for the sheepmeat sector due to its specificities and fragility. i can assure you that the commission will continue supporting the sector’s efforts to become more market-orientated and secure its long-term sustainability.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the facebook and cambridge analytica scandal broke when my report was already finished, but the analyses and recommendations contained in it do not change in substance. the scandal only strengthens our resolve: the commission will continue to support the development of the union's information society and will continue to support the development of the union's information society. this is why we have been cautious in dealing with the issue of fake news remembering that it does not come with the internet: are, in my opinion, the result of group behaviors, so-called groupthink that plague and have plagued mainstream communication as well as online. the notion of fake news, as the report says, should not be used to exclude or criminalize critical voices. the nature of internet disinformation is viral and offensive and should not be underestimated, and it is true that a few internet giants outside the union - google, facebook, apple, microsoft - wield immense power to control and select news, monitor and profile users. but censorship, especially if it's in the hands of the giants themselves, can't be the answer. at the moment, the most serious analyses agree that neither fake news nor psychographic profiling of users, nor cambridge analytica - now finally closed - determined the outcome of the american or french elections or the brexit referendum. blaming the algorithm is a convenient loophole to avoid analyzing an election result. removing the most dangerous content from the internet, especially in cases of child pornography and terrorism, is often a necessary solution, but it cannot be left to private companies, nor can it ignore the three principles of the international covenant on civil and political rights: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. we have asked for independent bodies to judge and at the same time ensure net neutrality and the protection of personal data. for the same reason, we express concern about libel laws, stressing the paralyzing effects they can have on the right to speak and receive information. at the same time, we have recalled the key role of whistleblowers in safeguarding investigative journalism. in this picture we have paid tribute to those who, as journalists, paid with their lives for their independence: the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should: the economic crisis, combined with the rise of online communication, has severely affected a key profession in democracies. the fourth power is now impoverished and the conditions of those who investigate are so precarious that one can no longer really speak of an independent power, capable of avoiding self-censorship and dependence on other political, financial or advertising powers. this degradation is emphasized in our report. i do not share all my views on the report, particularly on the decriminalisation of defamation, on which no agreement was reached, but i thank the various groups who have shown a spirit of cooperation in drawing up this text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr spinelli and his fellow shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation on this report, which i believe balances respect for freedom of the press and of expression with the security requirements arising mainly from the dissemination of illegal material online. the brutal murder of the investigative journalists ján kuciak and his partner, and before that of daphne caruana galizia, is a serious attack which harms not only the freedom of the press but also those acquired rights of freedom of expression and democracy which the union has always protected and defended. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of journalists and the protection of the rights of journalists. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the validity of information is a value that western societies have acquired over time and that we have a duty to defend.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am taking this point on behalf of my colleague commissioner gabriel, who unfortunately is not able to be here with you this evening. on her behalf i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms spinelli, as well as the shadow rapporteurs for drafting a report on such a very important topic. media freedom and pluralism are pillars of modern democracies and prerequisites for an open and free democratic debate. they are also fundamental rights enshrined in article 11(2) of the eu charter of fundamental rights. we have seen that unfortunately the european union is not immune from risks to media, freedom and pluralism. recently two journalists were killed in the european union for simply doing their job. these crimes have left the whole european community deeply shocked and we must do our utmost to ensure that such tragic events do not happen. last week reporters without borders published its yearly press freedom index, confirming the worrying trend that media freedom and pluralism is deteriorating in several eu member states. while it is for member states to guarantee media freedom and pluralism, the commission is taking a number of measures to strengthen media freedom across the european union within its competences. in legislative terms, it is likely that, once adopted, the revised audiovisual media services directive will include new provisions on the independence of regulators, on media literacy and on transparency of media ownership. all of these provisions are expected to have positive spillovers on the media environment within the european union. i welcome the political agreement of the co-legislators achieved last week in this house. on the 23 april the commission proposed new rules for the protection of whistle-blowers who are often valuable sources of information for journalists. protecting them is therefore crucial for safeguarding the watchdog role of investigative journalism. beyond the legislation, the commission also acts as a facilitator. with the help of the european parliament we fund independent projects which support journalists under threat, promote cross-border investigative journalism and provide financial support to the media freedom community. one of our main projects is the media pluralism monitor. it is run by the university institute of florence and allows us to have an independent and in-depth analysis of the changing media landscapes in all the eu member states. others, such as the index on censorship or the international press institute, map and report violations of media freedom or provide legal support to journalists. we also need to counter the increase in polarisation and disinformation in online media and the resulting distortion of the democratic debate. last week the commission set forth its policy on this question, building on the results of the various consultations. the policy reflects the commission’s commitment to improving european citizens’ access to unbiased, quality information online. this comprehensive approach to tackle disinformation seeks to be both inclusive and action-oriented in order to aid stakeholders to take immediate actions from july, to achieve a speedy reduction in the volume of online disinformation. i thank the european parliament again for the high quality of this report and for the insightful views expressed by the members. the commission has only limited competence in the area of media freedom and pluralism, but it does however not turn a blind eye to the challenges of media freedom and pluralism and will continue to follow the situation in the member states carefully. there is no doubt that europe needs a strong, competitive, free and pluralistic media sector. quality journalism and free media are the watchdogs of our societies. we must all collaborate to uphold and strengthen media freedom and pluralism, values that keep our democracies healthy and vibrant. in order to achieve this, there is still a lot of work to be done and it is very encouraging to see that all of us here share a common vision on these values we hold dear.
in writing. working conditions for journalists continue to deteriorate. there are more victims of bullying, verbal and physical attacks, and there are more murders. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe is sounding the alarm about the situation of journalists and the traditional media, calling on the states to take concrete measures and to ensure full compliance with all the standards of the pan-european organisation on freedom of the press. to this situation, which is illustrated by the reports of the council of europe, must be added the cases of murdered journalists, such as jan kuciak, a slovak journalist, and daphne caruana galizia, a maltese journalist. i do not know whether we are witnessing a general attack on the free press in europe as many have claimed in recent months. there are certainly disturbing signs, such as the large number of journalists under the protection of the police, according to the latest reporters without borders report on press freedom. we must emphasize that freedom of expression is a fundamental principle for the eu and that practices such as pressure and threats against media workers must be combated by all means.
the agenda calls for a debate with charles michel, prime minister of belgium, on the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen, today we have with us the prime minister of the kingdom of belgium, mr michel. as usual, we will have a real debate with the prime minister of a member state of the european union. i am pleased to welcome the prime minister of belgium here in brussels. we can therefore also debate at the european parliament's seat in brussels, and not just in strasbourg. it is very important to us that parliament is at the heart of the political debate on the future of europe. we have had several heads of state and government and we have had real debates and not just official speeches. i think this is the right way forward to look at what we can do together, member states, european parliament and commission. i also thank the president of the european commission and commissioner thyssen for participating in this debate. once again, i thank mr michel for his commitment and for his work. i think it will be very interesting for us to hear, the day after the presentation of the 2021-2027 european union budget, what people in belgium think about the political issues that are most important for all of us or for the future of europe, and to know mr michel's plans for the future.
mr loones, it is possible to be against the european parliament having two seats, to be in favour of only one seat. but strasbourg is not a circus; it is one of the seats of the european parliament.
i would ask you to respect your speaking time or i shall have to cross off the list the names of some of the members of the group. i'm flexible with the group leader, but you have to try to limit yourself. you've been talking for eight minutes, guy.
mrs farage, i remind you that you also receive a salary as a member of the european parliament, like everyone else. so it's not like the others are getting paid and you're not, i don't see you giving up your benefits, or you or your group.
since you said that those who support europe do so because they are paid, i told you that you too receive a salary as a member of the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, everyone is free to say what they want in this debate, but i remind you that the debate is about the future of europe, not the future of belgium.
the debate is certainly lively and we are showing that we are discussing in this parliament matters which concern our fellow citizens. the aim is to reduce the distance between the institutions and the citizens more and more, and the fact that the stands are full of spectators is a source of great joy. i greet all the citizens of europe who are listening to this debate because, as i said, our aim is to try to solve the problems of europeans.
mr president, mr prime minister, thank you for your pro-european speech. i'd like to ask you a question, though. you spoke of using the potential of lisbon. i agree, of course, as i was a co-rapporteur on the lisbon potential report, but there is still a problem with democracy in the european union. do you not think that if we want to make full use of the lisbon treaty, we must use the bridge clause and get a majority vote in the council? because this is the reason why europe is not working and why our citizens are criticizing it: europe can never decide, it is slow, it cannot be on the ball, to use football terms. that's the question. so either we change the treaties and really democratise europe by showing real commitment, or we don't, but at least make full use of the lisbon treaty, through the bridge clause, to get to a real democratic system in europe.
thank you for your words. i agree with what you said about the press. as a former journalist, i support and defend freedom of the press. today there will be a memorial service for daphne caruana galizia, the maltese journalist killed in a bombing a few months ago. parliament will always support freedom of the press. we have had a debate, mr prime minister, a real debate on the future of europe, a lively debate, of course, but a real debate. that is a positive message to our fellow citizens, to the citizens who are in the stands and who have listened to this debate. as i said, more than 40 members spoke and asked questions. i think that this way of working is a positive one and helps a great deal in the relations between the european parliament, the commission, the council and the governments. we must all work together to defend the rights of our fellow citizens. thank you very much, prime minister, i'll greet you and then we'll move on. mrs gomes, does your question relate to what i just said? what's the matter? i want to know.
of course, ma'am, but i said there's a ceremony today for daphne caruana galizia. as a former journalist, i am also very aware of what happened. not just for daphne, but for that irish journalist who was killed a few years ago, those killed in slovakia and all the others. thank you very much to all of you, thank you again to the prime minister, thank you to the european commission and to all the members who have taken part in this debate, and to all the citizens who are here to listen to us. - thank you. - thank you. we're working for you. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, i supported this report, and i think it is good that we are debating in the plenary about the protection of the financial interests of the european union, but i am convinced that the fundamental decision to punish illegal and particularly criminal activities in defence of the financial interests of the european union will always be taken by the member states, by the criminal prosecution authorities in the individual member states. we should ensure that individual member states do not underestimate this form of crime and that the different law enforcement authorities in individual member states cooperate and exchange information. i think that is the basis for the future, to prevent the theft of european money. i am not so convinced, as other colleagues are, that the establishment of a new european public prosecutor's office, which will be set up by only some of the european union states, will significantly solve this problem. but history will tell if the optimists are right, and this office will help. i'm skeptical of that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a positive result that fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported in 2016 have decreased by 15%. however, the persistent gap between member states in the reporting of occurrences leads to a misperception of the effectiveness of controls. it is in this area that the commission must do more to support the level and quality of controls and the sharing of best practices in the fight against fraud. we need a uniform system of comparable data collection in order to standardise the reporting process and to ensure the quality and comparability of the data provided, but we also need more effective cooperation between member states, the european public prosecutor's office, olaf and eurojust. to date, not all member states have adopted national anti-fraud strategies and 50% of cases reported by olaf are closed by the national authorities, partly because of a lack of harmonisation of the conditions for the admissibility of evidence provided by olaf.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report presents a picture which is both very encouraging and completely inadequate. a third of italians have an empty fridge, a third of italians are in great difficulty and this european union, which provides an important financial instrument such as the european investment bank, has a duty to invest in our country in a more important and relevant way. the overall amount is not sufficient, which is explained in detail in the report; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this is one of the functions and objectives of the european investment bank. these are objectives which very often are not achieved and which very often need to be precisely justified, especially here in the european parliament, where we represent tens and tens of millions of inhabitants who are asking for exactly this: punctuality and transparency.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the eib's financial activities highlights some very important aspects, such as the need to promote financially sustainable activities or the monitoring of the added value, additionality and real leverage achieved with eib financing. there is also a call for evaluation and transparency of certain high-risk financial instruments, to avoid the burden being shifted onto small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens. i have been warning for some time that financial engineering could create new speculative bubbles, the bursting of which would shatter the european backbone of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, creating a backlash that would be disruptive for the citizens. i would also like to add to the harsh criticism expressed in the valli report my firm condemnation of the eib's financing of projects to support fossil fuels, or obsolete steelworks or useless and harmful mega-infrastructures. in the specific case of tap, the eib insisted on financing it by hiding behind the facade of gas supply which is certainly not a renewable source without taking due account of the social, economic and environmental externalities and ignoring the potential risks to the local population. since this is essentially public money, the eib should instead direct its support towards contributing in a more targeted way to projects with real added value for the territories, the environment and sustainability, as well as to the creation of quality jobs. i therefore welcome the report in general and the vote in favour.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we think that mr novakov's report is too unambitious on the real environmental sustainability of fossil fuel alternatives. we would have liked at least a mention of the fact that transport is currently responsible for 32% of the total energy consumption of the european union and that transport emissions are responsible for 27% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the union, thus constituting a serious environmental problem in terms of air pollution. in the rest of the report, we find several non-compliant references to the efsi, particularly where it is defined as a tool that could serve as a platform for developing public-private partnerships in transport. we welcome in particular paragraph 15 of one of our amendments, which calls on the commission, in the context of the new regulation on cohesion policy after 2020, to propose more funds for cities to submit joint tenders for infrastructure or technologies that would contribute to the decarbonisation of urban transport and the reduction of air pollution from road vehicles. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that animal testing is an act of absolute cruelty, and it is unacceptable, and it continues to be so in 80% of the rest of the world. not in the european union, where we have been farsighted in anticipating this kind of programme. but i think, from this point of view, that we have to work a lot to defend those who are now part of our family, so pets, guinea pigs, all those who, in a very cruel and brutal way, can be subjected to this kind of useless experimentation - as the food and drug administration very well points out - in 92 percent of cases: it's useless for testing cosmetics, it's useless for enabling our particularly advanced companies to compete in this global world. that is why i believe that the european union must vigorously pursue, with all the instruments at its disposal, the defence of the good practices we have adopted and fight with great determination against all those who continue to experiment on animals in the rest of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my long career as a journalist i believe i have never faced such a dark and worrying time for freedom of information. 530 journalists killed is the price paid for press freedom around the world, from 2012 to 2016; in nine out of ten cases, these are not foreign correspondents sent to distant wars, but local journalists, as was the case with daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, the last european victims of this massacre. violence is not the only threat to press freedom. there are others: the concentration of power, the precarious - often miserable - conditions of young journalists, and i thank barbara spinelli for bringing this issue back to the forefront of the debate. freedom of the media is a founding and central value of our union and it is from these values that we must start, not from economic parameters, if we are to guarantee a future for the european dream.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 3 may 2018.
ladies and gentlemen, it is with great emotion that i wish to express, on behalf of the european parliament, my affectionate thoughts to nicole fontaine, who left us a few days ago after a long political life devoted to society and to the fight for the ideals that were hers. a memory full of gratitude and appreciation. first elected in 1984, she was a leading member of our assembly for 23 years, with a two-year break when she was a minister in france. during these long years, she has acquired a deep knowledge of the parliament and the political and institutional environment of the union and has worked tirelessly to strengthen our institution. as vice-president for conciliation, she worked passionately to consolidate the codecision procedure and to strengthen the role of parliament. we owe him a lot. on 20 july 1999, twenty years after another woman, simone veil, was elected president of our assembly. in varietate concordia, united in diversity that was his motto, and it has become ours, and it was adopted 18 years ago during his presidency. i recall this page of our history because beyond the symbol, there is the strength of a commitment. this motto expresses the whole of his thought and represents the guiding thread of his political action. of course, we are different, but our differences enrich us. they are merely the outgrowth of a common european culture that is three thousand years old. yes, sometimes we have different interests, but we share the same core values: united, we could defend them and make them thrive on the world stage. this was the spirit of nicole fontaine when she signed the charter of fundamental rights on behalf of parliament 18 years ago. she was convinced that it was up to our assembly to take our values around the world, especially in areas where democracy is being flouted or is having difficulty in asserting itself. in this context, it took a particular look at africa. we are the only region in the world where the death penalty is no longer applied. we are the ones the world looks to when journalists are imprisoned, when women are abused and their rights are violated, when political opponents are threatened or deprived of their freedom. we have an obligation to remain a beacon, a beacon for fundamental rights. that was nicole fontaine's conviction. when she was elected president of the european parliament in 1999, nicole fontaine also stressed the need for greater proximity to european citizens. i would like to pay tribute to his unremitting work, which is expressed both in his many books and in his regular and intense presence on the ground, as close as possible to the citizens. during her presidency, she will go into all the circles to give more than 100 lectures and speeches. this presence, this closeness to the people, which was vital for nicole fontaine, was accompanied by an extraordinary capacity for listening and persuasion, which was decisive in many ways, especially at the historic moment of the adoption of the single currency, when the euro aroused very strong apprehensions among europeans. i would also like to mention the fontaine report, which decided to grant financial aid for twinning between european cities. a small, practical gesture that has helped to bring millions of european citizens closer together. this imperative of proximity is more essential today than ever. nicole fontaine was a courageous and far-sighted president. while the taliban were ravaging afghanistan, she invited commander massoud to the european parliament, against the advice of everyone and despite the reluctance of the western chancelleries. a year earlier, it had received the president of the palestinian legislative council and the president of the knesset in our house. it was a great moment for our assembly. at the nice summit on 7 december 2000, it succeeded in convincing tony blair of the need to sign the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in her 1999 inaugural address, she said: 'today there is an urgent need to give a new meaning to the union'. things have not changed much in this respect. now it is up to us to continue the work of our distinguished colleague who knew how to talk to people. it is up to us to reawaken enthusiasm and to revive this sense of belonging to a great project that transcends us. on behalf of the european parliament, i thank you, madam president, dear nicole, for what you have been, for the passion, courage and consistency that have marked your work in the service of citizens throughout your life. as you often said, to conclude a meeting that went on forever: "everything is said". - thank you. - thank you. (applause) (applause) (applause) (applause) (applause) this is the
it is obvious that president weber, on behalf of all the political groups, has mentioned nicole fontaine, just as guy verhofstadt did when it came to simone veil. now, i'd like you to join us in a moment of silence in memory of our friend nicole. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, as of friday our personal data and our private lives are better protected against abuse and manipulation. this is thanks to the entry into force of new data protection rules promoted by the european parliament. i thank all the colleagues who have worked on this important regulation, and in particular the rapporteur, mr jan philipp albrecht, who will be leaving us shortly to become a minister in germany, and to whom i wish all the best. the general data protection regulation is the biggest reform of privacy legislation since the birth of the internet. it is a decisive step towards ensuring that citizens can use the internet with confidence in europe, but also in the rest of the world. with this regulation, we have shown that we can set global standards on privacy and the european union is at the forefront of protecting citizens worldwide. from now on, companies and online platforms that we trust with our data will have to make their intentions known when they use it. they will have to get our explicit consent, regardless of the country in which they operate. no more tacit consensus, no more shadow zones or shortcuts that allow the rules to be circumvented. these rules will help prevent the recurrence of scandals, of millions of users' data being used to influence election results. for example, any form of unauthorized use of data will have to be notified within 72 hours. there are heavy penalties for those who do not comply with the new rules, up to 4% of total annual turnover. for the web giants, this could amount to fines of up to billions of dollars. the european parliament has played a central role in setting state-of-the-art privacy standards, but also in calling for online platforms to be accountable to european citizens. i'm glad that the world's major digital platforms have committed to our rules. but our task is not finished, our priority is to achieve a real governance of the technological revolution by introducing a proper regulatory framework. we need to ensure the proper functioning of the digital marketplace with clear responsibilities for online operators. this includes, in addition to the protection of personal data, a fair tax system and the protection of copyright and consumer rights.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 24 may 2018, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: monday no changes are proposed. tuesdaythe conference of presidents approved the request of the special committee on terrorism to extend the mandate of the special committee for another two months. the committee on terrorism considers that such an extension is necessary for it to be able to fulfil its mandate and its tasks. the decision of the conference of presidents will be added to the votes on tuesday and will be deemed to have been adopted if no objections are raised. the ppe group also asked for the vote on the report by mr svoboda and mr corbett on the interpretation and application of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking, which was due to take place on tuesday, to be postponed to wednesday. i give the floor to mr svoboda to present the request on behalf of his group.
the green group has asked that the debate on the commission statement on the us steel and aluminium tariffs and the union's response be concluded with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr ska keller to present the request of his group. there you go, your honor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group opposes this motion for a resolution for the simple reason that it is an effective measure. as has been mentioned, the deadline for this transitional phase of the us duty exemption to the european union is 1 june, and until then we do not know exactly what the line will be. in parallel the inta committee is committed to contributing to the overall nature of the trade relationship between the european union and the united states, and so we feel it is more effective to have the debate tomorrow because, of course, it is a subject that will concern us, and then possibly decide what position to take in a resolution in two weeks' time.
the gue/ngl group has asked for the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon to be the statements by the council and the commission on the measures to implement and maintain the joint global action plan. i give the floor to mr ernst to make the request.
the group of the european united left has asked that an oral question to the council on the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons be added as the fifth item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon. i give the floor to mr joão pimenta lopez to formulate the request of the group, please.
i therefore put to the vote by roll call the proposal by the group of the european united left to add to the fifth item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon a question to the council on the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. (parliament rejected the request) wednesdaythe gue group asked for a statement by the council and the commission on the excessive use of force against refugees and migrants in the mawda case to be added as a second item to the afternoon's agenda. i give the floor to mr zimmer to formulate the request of the group.
the s&d group asked that an oral question to the commission on the subject 'extending the scope of chapter i of the brussels iia regulation to include registered unions' be added as the third item after mr ertug's report on 'manipulation of odometer readings in motor vehicles: review of the eu legal framework'. i give the floor to mr gebhardt to present the request of the socialist group.
the ppe group has asked for a debate on mr gardini's report on the union's civil protection mechanism to be added as a second item in the afternoon, after the debate on topical and urgent subjects. i give the floor to mr gardini to present the group's request.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, civil protection is something that our fellow citizens like. the eurobarometer constantly gives us this data: some 90% of europeans would welcome help from europe if the various levels, right up to the national level, had not been able to respond to the emergency. but we also need to do a lot about risk prevention, training and capacity building to strengthen our response. with the report we are voting on this week, we are going to take a further step forward in strengthening the mechanism at european level, by succeeding in combining solidarity with declining subsidiarity in all its facets, because this is very important and it is good that it is emphasized and always present. so, we did a really good job. i thank all my colleagues in the various committees for their opinions, all the groups, the shadow rapporteurs, the opinion rapporteurs, because we have done a good job, we have already obtained majorities in favour in the committees, and we could have even gone straight to the negotiations. but we preferred to bring it to the house so that everyone can take part in this important result that the citizens are waiting for. so we are sorry that after working so well, even with such a tight agenda, to get ready for this plenary, we have to lose another two weeks, when we know that with civil protection speed is one of the most important characteristics. that is why i ask my colleagues to include civil protection in this plenary without waiting another two weeks, because i do not think that the work would change. so i really do ask for the yes vote.
mr martin, the bureau is working hard and the committee chaired by mr morin-chartier is committed to strong action against harassment, we will also be discussing this again today, this evening, to take stock of the situation, but it seems to me that the decision has gone in the direction requested by the plenary.
the agenda includes the commission statement on the commission decision adopted on the third mobility package (2018/2601 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the third mobility package is essential if all citizens are to benefit from the benefits of safe mobility, cleaner vehicles and advanced technological solutions. although the number of road fatalities has more than halved, 25,300 people lost their lives in 2017 and as many as 135,000 were seriously injured. this is why it is important to equip vehicles with advanced safety devices, such as automatic emergency braking. the rules on clean mobility, in particular those relating to fuel quality and the reduction of emissions from new heavy duty vehicles, are fundamental and, in my view, necessary to enable us to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. the battery action plan to facilitate the spread of the electric car is useful in this regard. however, if europe is to become a true world leader in connected and automated mobility systems, we should be able to implement a fully digital environment for the exchange of information in freight transport in the short term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission, the member states and regional governments must put in place measures to support small-scale fishing, which, as we know, has been going through a very difficult period for several years, by encouraging local consumption, direct marketing and zero-kilometre channels of trade, as well as promotional campaigns, also in cooperation with private initiatives to promote local food products. the establishment of producer organizations must be promoted, as this is the only way in the world to give fishermen greater negotiating power. mechanisms must be identified to improve the selling price, to allow for adequate remuneration for the work of fishermen, to reduce the margins for intermediaries and to enhance the prices paid to the producer. finally, i would like to reiterate my concern about imports of fishery products, which are often subject to less controls. the european union, also in order to promote fair and honest competition, must ensure that all imported products comply with the european union standards for storage and handling, as well as the hygiene requirements laid down by law.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs who have helped me a great deal in the last few months of very intensive work to produce this report. the commissioner has presented new ideas about the future of the cap in a report and has presented the idea of a new delivery model. he called for a new relationship between the european union and the member states and regions in the area of the common agricultural policy. we do not completely shut ourselves off from such an idea. but i think that the g in the cap, the common the fact that the common agricultural policy must be a common policy, must be preserved. we must also continue to guarantee the responsibility of the regions and the länder in the field of agriculture. but let me come to the first pillar of the cap, the area where the greatest amount of money is spent in the common agricultural policy. i think we should simply ask ourselves: what kind of agriculture do we want in europe? and we should promote agriculture based on family farms, agriculture which is sustainable, agriculture which is also innovative, which shapes our cultural landscape, and also agriculture which is attractive to young people who can take agriculture in europe tomorrow. if we want such an agriculture, then we have to think about a few things in the first pillar, then we need a fair distribution of funds between the member states. and fair may not necessarily mean that everyone gets the same, but the pay must be at least equal. we need a fairer distribution of funds in the member states, especially where the calculation of entitlements to payment is still based on a historical approach. we must ensure that the money actually reaches the farmers and not those who hold the payment entitlements and thus generate their income. we need to have linked payments that do not distort competition. we have a lot to do here, if we look at what is happening now. and we also need - and not everyone likes this - a clear degressivity, and we also need an efficient cover. and efficient cover-up means it has to work, so it's not just on paper, as it is today. we need a new green architecture. a new green architecture means that we need clear conditionality in the first pillar, so clear environmental requirements, and we need strong agro-environmental programmes in the second pillar. green architecture, sustainability, must not become less, but it must become more efficient and it must become simpler. two words about the second pillar: the second pillar is important, and we need to significantly de-bureaucratize, streamline and simplify the second pillar. we must create incentives in the second pillar for sustainable agriculture, for real, good agro-environmental programmes, and we must also ensure that disadvantaged areas can play their part and get the money they need from the second pillar. a few words on market policy: we still have common market regulations in a few sectors: wine and fruit and vegetables. we should continue to do so and we should even consider extending the model in the fruit and vegetable sector to other sectors, such as the mountain milk sector. let me say two words about the financing of this whole policy: of course, this policy needs money and what is currently on the table - the proposal of the budget commissioner - cannot be accepted from an agricultural point of view. in particular, it is unacceptable that the second pillar should be reduced significantly more than the first pillar. i don't think that's innovative, and i don't think it's going to be in the future. it is not possible that farmers are now paying the bill for brexit. they will also be the ones who will suffer most from brexit if there is indeed market distortion. i think we have succeeded in providing a good model here. i hope, commissioner, that in your legislative proposals which we shall receive in a few days' time you will take our proposals into account.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the committee on agriculture we have worked to define a position on the future agricultural policy, and out of respect for this work and the citizens we represent i expect you, commissioner, to take account of what has been done. we are concerned about the cuts, which today appear to be greater than initially announced. i want to stress again that indiscriminate cuts will hurt the industry. instead, focus on savings and measuring the results of the proposed actions. as regards the transition to the so-called new delivery model, it is presented as a greater autonomy for the member states, but it risks being a step backwards towards nationalisation of the sector, where controlled and controller coincide, thus further fragmenting the market and leaving room for unfair national competition practices. we have an opportunity to design an agricultural policy that is, yes, more environmentally friendly, but also that promotes a model of food production and consumption that is more sustainable, and above all profitable for all actors in the chain. we must be ambitious, simplify procedures, cut red tape, allocate funds on a premium basis, supporting those farmers whose activities really contribute to the public good. we reiterate the need for a ceiling on direct payments, so as not to encourage financial speculation and land concentration. we must help small and mediumsized firms, and that is why aid should be modulated so that it really helps and does not narcotize the market in favour of the big ones. socio-economic circumstances should be taken into account in the allocation of funds between member states. in fact, if the cost of living is different, the same amount of aid can have a very different practical impact, and we do not want to create further distortions in the single market. finally, we will not accept tight deadlines for a rush to close. we need a thorough debate if this reform is to put the agri-food sector at the heart of the economic development of the european territory.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which this house is about to vote on sends a clear message: the european parliament will never accept a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. we would have hoped that this position could be reflected in the reform proposals which are now public. the commission's proposal, which risks destroying the greatest and most important supranational policy experiment in the union's history, is a step in the right direction. we do not want this reform to become the precursor to the decline of the agricultural policy itself, which must remain 'common', guaranteeing growth, productivity, sustainability and competitiveness to all our farmers, without the risk of distortions of competition between states or even between different regions. the responsibility for controls on the union alone is not enough, commissioner, to make it a common responsibility.
member of the commission. – mr president, vice-president, first of all i want to reiterate my thanks to mr dorfmann and the shadow rapporteurs for the work that they've done. i have read the report and i think, based on your report, i can tell you that we have a lot of common ground in relation to the proposals that will emerge. your contributions from several committees this evening, other than agriculture, shows the wide level of interest that there is in the common agricultural policy right across this house. the cap is, as i've said many times, an economic, environmental and social policy and the legislative proposals that we are bringing forward must reflect that. the proposals will also reflect the principles that we have identified in the communication last november. i agree with mr kelly, when he expresses his pride in our farmers, and i think everybody agrees that the key role of farmers in providing high quality food in a sustainable manner is crucial from the point of view of the policy that we are trying to improve. and since we published our communication, there have been some concerns expressed about the rise of renationalisation and these have been repeated by a few members this evening. i want to reassure you that i'm confident that you will see in the proposals that will be adopted that there is no intention whatsoever to renationalise the cap. our proposals would provide for genuine subsidiarity in the implementation of the policy, while also containing sufficient safeguards to ensure that the common nature of the policy will be maintained and farmers will not be put at a competitive disadvantage as a result of our proposals. the internal market and its integrity are essential to our agricultural policy and essential to our farmers, and that will remain the case. the budgetary situation has been mentioned by mr nicholson and others. it's a challenging one, based on the fact that we have 12 billion less from the fact that the united kingdom is leaving. that is the present situation and i agree with mr nicholson, the end result of course nobody can predict at the moment, but we cannot predict as well whether we will have unanimity or not by the other member states, the other 27, in relation to putting more money in various ways into the total eu budget. so, it's a matter for the council and the parliament to negotiate. madam senra rodríguez is right when she says that the cap is about political decisions. i will be bringing shortly the commission's responsibility in this regard and it will then be a matter for all of us to work together as co-legislators, particularly the council and the parliament, to take responsibility and we will be there to help in whatever way we can work closely with you to achieve a satisfactory outcome. the issue of fairness and equity in payments is very important and it has been frequently raised, and one which we highlighted in the november communication, and we will be making proposals with regard to convergence. we will be making proposals in relation to capping and we will be making proposals in relation to small and medium-sized farmers. also, we will be making proposals in relation to internal convergence. just to clarify issues for my friend mr eric andrieu, but i don't know where you're getting your figures about 25% and 14%, you're talking to too many academics. but, anyway, the budget proposals that i have been involved in actually are generated on the same basis as the last occasion, which many people here were involved with. so, comparing like with like, i want to just reiterate that the proposal in the mff for agriculture is less than 5% cut in direct payments and of course it is a cut in rural development, but the overall budget is less than 5% cut. so i don't know where you're getting these figures. but anyway, i'd be anxious to hear. the average cut in direct payments as i mentioned earlier is closer to 3% than actually 14% that you have mentioned and, with envelopes increasing from a number of member states, the figures in relation to rural development can improve. these figures represent in the same way as was agreed seven years ago, and they'll stand up to any scrutiny. the reduced level of eu co-financing of the second pillar can be compensated by member states or by more contributions from member states into the budget. i want to assure my friend professor de castro that he doesn't have to worry about respecting any proposals or rejecting any proposals on renationalisation because there won't be any. there is no intention to make any such proposals and i hope there'll be no amendments put down in that respect either for to do the opposite. this will be explicitly clear in the commission's proposals that i will publish. you don't need a straw man in order to push the haystack, we won't need to have to do that. vice-president, the rapporteur’s report is a welcome and constructive contribution to the debate about the modernisation and simplification of the cap and i look forward to presenting the commission's proposals to the parliament's agriculture committee, and when you do, and i am confident that you will see significant similarities, as i said already. can i say to my friend mr marias, who is no longer here with us, from greece, who was against free trade agreements in relation to agriculture, and i have just approved some promotion money for feta cheese, which is a very important product in greece and which i regularly am asked by mr marias and others in greece about how we can do to promote feta cheese internationally. so should i withdraw the money that i've already approved for this promotion programme and actually eliminate any prospect of feta becoming internationally well-known and actually able to get a market share in our free trade agreements? i'm not so sure. i'm sure he didn't mean that. in the meantime, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your support. thank you mr dorfmann and your shadow rapporteurs for the great work that you have done, i think there are a lot of similarities that we have discussed on many occasions in com agri and i don't think there'll be too many surprises when the proposals emerge from the commission.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have heard many very consistent statements in this debate, and i do not want to go into the substance of the matter. the common agricultural policy is one of the oldest policies we have in the european union. we have been pursuing a common policy for our farmers since 1962, and we should now proceed to develop this policy carefully and sensibly. we do not need a revolution, but we need a further development of this policy which is in keeping with the new circumstances. and we must not call this development into question - not by renationalization, which in my view would only open the door to market distortion in europe, nor by an austerity policy which will ultimately destroy this policy. the commissioner knows as well as we do that inflation should be taken into account, that all occupational groups are entitled to an adjustment of their income in line with inflation. that should be granted to farmers. and if you factor that in, the savings are a little higher than you've listed here. but we shall also be discussing this matter with your colleague, the commissioner for budgets, in particular. i would just like to conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, and also those responsible for the comments that have been made, once again. i think it's just up to us now. it is a very important report, and i hope that this common position will survive the vote in parliament the day after tomorrow. and then, i think, it's up to us. we would of course be glad, and i would be glad, commissioner, if our views were to be incorporated into your proposal. but if not, then we are the legislators here and we will have to see to it that our opinions and our positions on various areas are then introduced and that your proposals are then dealt with by parliament accordingly. thank you very much. i hope that we will continue to work very efficiently on these issues in the coming months.
the commission shall be assisted by the committee on agriculture, rural development and food, which shall be composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and the member states.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union only 6% of all farm managers are under 35 years old, while over 50% are over 55. generational renewal in agriculture therefore needs strong policy measures in the new cap to promote generational renewal. the text adopted by a large majority in the committee on agriculture and rural development made a number of policy recommendations aimed at improving the existing support scheme and assisting young farmers in entering the agricultural sector. access to land is, as is well known, the main obstacle preventing new farmers from starting up in the agricultural sector in europe. access to land is limited by the scarcity of land and of course also by competition from other farmers and investors. the problem of access to land has been exacerbated mainly as a consequence of the current structure of direct payments, which often leads to increases in land rents and purchase prices. too many farmers tend to stay in business as long as possible to continue receiving subsidies, using service providers to cultivate the land or working only the minimum amount of cultivated land they have. i believe that the activity levels needed to allocate payments to support the achievement of certain targets should be increased, just as i believe that a ban on the irrelevant combination of subsidies with the enjoyment of pension benefits should be applied. member states should implement new measures to grant priority access to agricultural land to new farmers and young farmers, making full use of all regulatory instruments and also drawing on best practices already successfully implemented in some member states. for example, instruments such as rural banks could be envisaged, which could further facilitate access to land, but also provide a comprehensive picture of land availability for young farmers. generational change should be facilitated through legislation, for example on inheritance and taxation, rules on access to land, land use planning and business succession strategies. the current cap does not provide incentives to encourage the transfer of farms from older to younger generations. it is a gap that must be filled, and it must be filled soon, if we are to really encourage young people. we can do this by introducing, for example, measures which can actually motivate older people to transfer land ownership, such as those on early retirement schemes or other types of retirement incentives. on the budgetary side, it is essential to continue to provide support to the young farmers programme, but by increasing the maximum level of national funding beyond 2% for the compulsory payments in the first pillar, and increasing the support rate in the second pillar to encourage generational renewal. we recommend improving measures to facilitate access to loans with preferential interest rates for new farmers, including by private financial operators, by implementing financial instruments to provide zero-interest loans for investments by young farmers. better cooperation is also needed with the eib and the european investment fund in order to promote the creation of ad hoc financial instruments for young farmers in all member states. one important point concerns simplification: the overall management of direct payments and rural development programme measures is considered to be extremely complex and difficult, in particular for new farmers who are not particularly familiar with the payment system and who therefore need a significant simplification of procedures and a reduction of the time taken in payment procedures. on training, the commission and the member states should be able to offer more training and advisory opportunities to young farmers, both potential and established, including skills for starting up an agricultural business and agricultural and technological skills related to new technologies and entrepreneurship, such as marketing, networking, communication, innovation, multi-functionality and diversification and financial skills. finally, innovation is one of the most effective tools for improving the generational change. young farmers represent a great potential for innovation and diversification, as they tend to have higher managerial skills and abilities and are more likely to access new markets, develop new production methods and make the best use of technological developments and innovations in agriculture, which can enable them to respond to the environmental challenges of agriculture. it is therefore necessary to provide strong support to young people who wish to introduce innovative production techniques and processes, such as precision and conservation farming systems, which are intended to improve the profitability and environmental sustainability of the agricultural sector. only by implementing these measures can young farmers be offered long-term prospects to prevent rural exodus. strong support for young farmers is a sine qua non for securing the future of rural areas and should therefore be identified as a top priority in the framework of the new cap for the period after 2020.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all of those who have contributed to this important debate. it is clear – and not at all surprising from the debate or indeed from the previous debate – that there is significant support for young farmers, and rightly so. we also spoke quite a lot tonight about the importance of innovation and knowledge transfer. the one idea of which we have no shortage, of course, is of innovative, knowledgeable young people who are anxious to get involved in farming, but sometimes there are many barriers in their way to doing so. the challenge is to remove those barriers and to encourage young farmers’ interest. also, the challenge is to help them to overcome the many barriers to entry by member states or, indeed, how we can help in the european parliament and in the european council, through the common agricultural policy (cap). as i have indicated in my opening remarks, there are a suite of measures available in the existing common agricultural policy and often they are not being used by member states. these measures have different but complementary objectives. of course we need complementary measures between those which come within the competence of the eu and those which are within the competence of the member states. we have to get the member states to utilise more policy options than today in order to help people and encourage them to become involved in agriculture. member states have competence, for example, on taxation, and more can and should be done in this area in order to incentivise young people into farming. when the commission makes its legislative proposals later, we will include proposals to support our young farmers and i hope and i know that we can rely on your support in respect of these measures, but i would also encourage you to press your national governments to provide appropriate and complementary measures at the level of the member state. the european parliament, and in particular through mr dess, mr de castro and mr siekierski, through the omnibus, played a very important role in highlighting and increasing the support for young farmers. the provisions in the omnibus certainly should be implemented in full by the member states, especially the increase in the farmers’ top-up payment from 25% to 50%. many member states have taken advantage of increasing the top-up, but many member states have not taken advantage of this particular new opportunity to give additional income, as mr flanagan has said, which is essential to ensuring that young people are, at least, given more attractiveness in terms of the support that is available through the common agricultural policy. the fact that so many member states have chosen to use the facility is encouraging, but let’s hope that we can find a way where all member states will be able to support these measures. one of the ways in which we will be able to do so is by having a specific objective in the cap strategic plans, which will not get approval from the commission unless they are able to show that they have genuine proposals to encourage more young people into agriculture and the food sector. it will be very important to see the reaction of the council and parliament in relation to how the specific objective of generation renewal for the first time will give a clear indication, as i said earlier, of the competence of having a harmonised but also common policy in relation to the specific objective of generation renewal. when i spoke earlier of the cap, i referred to it as a social policy. we have a responsibility to maintain the fabric of our rural communities and that cannot be done if we don’t encourage or get more young people into the heart of our rural communities through agriculture and food. several of you have referenced the demographics of the farming population, and you are correct in doing so. generation renewal is not only desirable but essential to secure the future of our rural areas and to create the much needed jobs for many people in the non-farming sectors in our rural areas. this is a very important objective that we must get right in the context of the co-legislative process that we are about to embark on under the cap.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall apologize for going over the top in my introduction, simply to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this debate. i would also like to thank commissioner hogan for his words and for also stating that he would like to incorporate in his proposal many of the points we have made. i think we can all agree that agriculture in europe can only improve and take off if we encourage this generational change, because young people are also better able to promote innovation in agriculture. i am sure that if we succeed in achieving this objective, we will also succeed in achieving the other objective which has been highlighted by many colleagues, namely to improve the profitability of agricultural undertakings. so more young people and more agriculture in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 29 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the new regulation recently adopted by the council, which sets new standards for organic farming, finally removes the last obstacle to modernising the sector and harmonising organic production standards, within the union and beyond. the organic sector has grown by 125% over the last ten years and is experiencing a remarkable upward trend, becoming increasingly important. growth, however, was greatly hampered by rules that were no longer fit for purpose and that were in dire need of revision. that is why i welcome the regulation adopted by the council, as it will play a key role in supporting the growth of the sector and providing a regulatory framework appropriate to the purpose. i think that the commission and parliament should, in general, give young farmers and new farmers guidance on the choice of crops to be targeted. many crops do not offer sufficient or reasonable margins in terms of market, demand or profitability, and this would greatly increase the entrepreneurial risk for young people entering the sector. providing more tools for young farmers is the direction being taken, aiming to encourage generational renewal, to increase the possibilities of access to land and finance for young farmers.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the connecting europe facility beyond 2020 (2018/2718 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a discussion of the funds for the connecting europe facility can only be made in the long term. we know that when it comes to infrastructure projects, the resources required are enormous and the appropriations need to be planned with precision. for this reason, i believe that the cef should not only be reinstated, but should be implemented in order to complete at least the ten-t core network projects. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. i believe that european unification is also a physical factor, and that we need a network more than ever to ensure development, growth and territorial connectivity, even in remote areas. and finally, europe must maintain control, i say, not only over the corridors but over the whole logistics network in general.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution proposed by mr marinescu on the cef is really aimed at achieving one of the european union's absolute priorities: ensuring connectivity and ensuring innovation. the value of the cef over these seven years has been to ensure, in addition to enormous firepower on infrastructure investments, to guarantee precisely a space for innovation in the field of c-its, alternative fuels, all that space that we also need for the challenge of digitization and decarbonization. so a complete and successful plan. so there is no justification for cutting resources, but i will add one element. the element is not only the amount of resources, but the type of structure of the mechanism, because that too has worked and it is worthwhile to maintain it. so, uh, lost-funds and an independent board of directors. these aspects of method will also have to be the object of our attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 31 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the following reports are scheduled for the next partsession: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the european parliament and the council, and by the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 30 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by molly scott cato, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on sustainable finance (2018/2007(ini)) (a8-0164/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 29 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by jytte guteland, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the eu justice scoreboard 2017 (2018/2009 (ini)) (a8-0161/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 29 may 2018.
the agenda shall include speeches of one minute (rule 163).
this court is adjourned.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i thank you for your speech, but perhaps there have been some distonias which you have not received well in your country. do you know that it is the five star movement that the league has defined as not wanting to leave the euro and not wanting to leave europe? so we must be pro-european forces and be ready to change europe as we all want to change it, but we must stay within it?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message that the european commission is sending to the citizens with this proposal is, in my view, a dangerous message, it is evidence of an undemocratic drift of the european institutions. and this is likely to be an even stronger message in relation to what happened last weekend in italy, where a minister was rejected for his ideas of change in europe. the linking of the european budget to decisions taken in brussels, to the dictates of brussels, is a very dangerous message. the second heading, 'cohesion and values', the structural reform fund and other funds which must be linked to compliance with the policies or the crazy reforms proposed by brussels are not the right message. the european union's inability to respond to the needs of its citizens must not be seen as blackmail. the answer the union must give is a concrete answer in its policies, it cannot blackmail the citizens. i hope that the next italian government will reject the proposal on the multiannual financial framework. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the first thing i hope the next italian government will do is to reject this proposal for a multiannual financial framework, which asks for more money from the citizens of italy, which is a net contributor to the budget of the european union, and where these funds are conditional on compliance with the diktats of brussels. for example, as i said in my speech, heading ii 'cohesion and values': the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope this will be the first step of the next government. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we had been allowed to speak in italy about a finance minister who, in fact, shortly before being dismissed by the president of the italian republic, who did not want to appoint him, our candidate would have proposed to the european commission and the european council extremely european instruments, such as tax transfers or eurobonds, to try to really stabilise the euro area, and not these poor instruments put there by this commission proposal, namely 30 billion which the member states will have to put in to get in return a little help, with their own money, in exchange for very heavy structural reforms in terms of wage devaluation, in terms of unpopularity, which the citizens have not asked for. our minister would also have asked that there should be protection, perhaps, also for small farmers by not reducing the funds for agriculture and also by not reducing the cohesion which is still fundamental to help especially the depressed areas of the eurozone. you have lost a great opportunity to change the european union and, with the next elections, probably in italy the eurozone will be... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must devote the first part of my speech to defending the honour of italy and the honour of our president mattarella, who has been attacked in this chamber in a disorganized manner by colleagues, especially from the league and the five star movement. we must tell the truth to this house about what has happened, because president mattarella has prevented, in these weeks and in the last few days, the establishment of an anti-european government which secretly wanted to take italy out of the euro and out of europe, without having said anything in the election campaign and without having written it in the electoral programme. mr commissioner, if italy had had that government, that financial framework, which must be corrected, we would have dreamed of it, we would not have had a single lira. the colleagues who have spoken before me, the colleagues who are speaking in italy about the multiannual financial framework and so on, have not read anything you are writing. i think that is very correct and i agree with the colleagues who have spoken before me on the need to intensify cohesion policy and agriculture. but the reform you have proposed - our colleagues should know - would have brought italy and that will bring italy plus 6% of cohesion funds for the policies you are setting up, as reported by the financial times. i had to say this to this house because you cannot listen to the words that have been heard, because we are very close to vilifying the head of state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly some positive things, but we are of course concentrating on what is not working. i would like to emphasize that we are against the reduction in the funds allocated to the cap and we also have doubts about the basis for the commission's calculation. we are therefore waiting to read the content of the sectoral regulations to understand, but there is no doubt that the cuts will be much higher than what you have said today. i will not dwell on it - some colleagues have already said this - but we are getting much, much higher figures. but when we talk about own resources, for example, i would like to point out the commission's inconsistency. it will be remembered that during the negotiations on the revision of the ets directive, the commission strongly opposed the use of these funds to compensate for indirect costs, which would have given some countries a breathing space by removing internal dumping which is unacceptable! now, instead, these funds can be used for completely different things, for budget and not for decarbonization. it doesn't seem consistent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for the next multiannual financial framework post 2020, which the commission officially released on 18 may, show clear discrepancies with the announcements. the announced increases for several european union programmes are in fact significantly lower, while the cuts for other programmes are higher than originally presented. just to give two examples: the common agricultural policy and cohesion policies would be cut by 15% and 10% respectively, with a negative impact on the nature and objectives of these policies. the overall level of financing proposed is also disappointing, as it is lower in real terms than the level of the current mff, despite the introduction of three sources of own resources, the timing and methods of which should be clarified. the post-2020 mff will have to be able to really respond to the needs and expectations of european citizens, and this parliament will have to work hard to achieve the necessary level of funding for the union's key policies, first and foremost the cap and cohesion policies.
madam president, commissioner, i also thank my colleagues who are involved in the negotiations. as an italian, i am concerned that the instability of the government does not allow us to participate in these negotiations in a decisive and decisive way. i am also concerned about the reduction in the cap, so i think and hope that some very useful and necessary compensation can be found for our farmers through direct financing. very well, certainly, the increase for innovation, for small and mediumsized enterprises and also for erasmus, because targeting the new generations is certainly important. you see, sometimes there is a contradiction, it is said - some italian colleagues say - that the european budget is not good, that the cohesion funds are not good, but, you see, i say to these colleagues that perhaps italy should spend all the money that the european union gives. because at the moment, on many cohesion and structural funds, we spend only 60% of what europe gives us. so before we criticize, perhaps italy should spend it, and certainly some changes will have to be made on the subject of agriculture.
in writing. the eu commission's proposal for the budget until 2027 is objectively insufficient. even to finance the initiatives that member states have committed to in the european council, and to respond to the concrete needs of our citizens, would require about 1.3% of eu gdp, 20% more than the commission's proposal. there are also interesting elements in the proposal, starting with new own resources, in line with the position adopted by the committee on economic affairs in the opinion of which i was rapporteur, and then supplemented by the committee on budgets. the choice of proposing increases for the most prominent programmes in the community budget is certainly a positive one: almost double the funding for erasmus+; at least €200 million more for creative europe; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the euro. positive choices, although less ambitious than what this parliament wants... "and yet it moves". we will be looking for a compromise between this house and the member states to respond effectively to the challenges ahead.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, up to now there have been too many scoundrels in europe who have circumvented the rules on posted workers in another member state in order to trample on their fundamental rights. for too many people, what should have been a great professional and educational experience abroad has turned into a nightmare, with wages that are completely inadequate to the new cost of living. that's enough! finally, after two years of close negotiations, we are reaching a balanced and ambitious revision of the directive, capable of ensuring fairer wages and social protection, protecting our small and mediumsized enterprises from unfair competition. we shall be able to guarantee workers the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place. the salary will be determined on a case-by-case basis by collective agreements or national laws. the secondment may last up to 18 months: after this period, the rules of the country where the service is provided will automatically apply. our work - and i thank the honourable members - has made it possible to take a clear step forward in protecting the rights of european workers.
before i welcome the president of guinea, i must tell you what happened in liège, belgium. a man killed two belgian policemen and a belgian citizen. the man was shot dead by the police. we do not know whether this was a terrorist attack or not, but we stand with the kingdom of belgium, with the belgian people, with the families of the two police officers and the belgian citizen who were killed this morning in liège. i also thank the president of guinea, who has expressed his condolences following this attack. we do not know the reason for this shooting, we do not know whether the perpetrator is a terrorist or not, but unfortunately, once again, in europe and in belgium, we have had deaths due to incomprehensible violence.
ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to welcome the president of the republic of guinea, mr alpha condé, to this house today. you are, mr president, the third african leader to address this house in the space of a year. your visit is part of a process of rapprochement and strengthening of our partnership with the african union on the one hand and the member states that make up the african union on the other. first of all, i would like to commend the extraordinary work you have done in your country in recent years: the emergence from 'the worst health crisis in the modern world', as the who defined it when speaking of ebola, the consolidation of democracy and human rights, in particular with the abolition of the death penalty, economic development, with a growth rate of over 6%, which makes guinea one of the most dynamic economies on the african continent. however, many challenges remain: the fight against corruption, the lack of infrastructure, the improvement of the business climate, youth unemployment, which is driving many guineans to emigrate to europe. the european union has a role to play here, as insecurity, climate change, unemployment and migration are common challenges. so we have to give ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions. that's why we're advocating for economic diplomacy, for more private sector investment. in the next multiannual financial framework, the european parliament is calling for more funds to have a real plan for africa, a new 'marshall plan'. it will contribute to economic diversification and the creation of a manufacturing base to absorb newcomers into the labour market. we therefore support a genuine national development plan in this direction. i also wish to thank you for the outstanding work you have done as head of the african union. your presidency has been marked by important and concrete successes: the return of morocco to the african union, the impetus for the creation of an african free trade area, an indispensable pillar towards the integration of the continent, not to mention the organisation of the abidjan summit, which marked a decisive turning point in our relations. mr president, we are delighted to have you with us.
mr president, we thank you for your intervention. i hope that today's meeting will enable us to enter a new phase of cooperation, closer cooperation. for us, working with africa is very important. in the next eu budget, we want to allocate more money for cooperation between us and you. we are trying to read the african situation through african glasses and not through european glasses. we also count on this cooperation to address the challenges of climate change, terrorism and illegal immigration. we can only achieve this if we are able to work together. that is why, mr president, i thank you for your speech and for your presence here in strasbourg, in the european parliament's plenary. (applause) i would like to thank
yes mr president, it is a point of order on rule 135. "discussioni su democrazia e stato di diritto". noi, colleghi, ci siamo occupati tantissime volte di democrazia e stato di diritto, è vero, in tutto il mondo. allora credo sia importante spiegarvi cosa è successo in italia. dove, cosa è successo in italia... (proteste in aula)(il presidente ritira la parola all'oratore)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen at the beginning of the sitting a show of very serious words about the situation of a country which is a leading member of this european union. i have respect for this house, so i do not think that inappropriate words can be used here. we've heard some very serious allegations. i would like to reiterate here, mr president, that my country is a country with a constitution, a president of the republic who has guaranteed respect for the constitution in the face of attacks by those who wanted to undermine it. we are for the rule of law, and italy has also proved itself to be a country capable of defending the rule of law against unacceptable political attacks. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, through her work, mrs aguilera garcía has taken up many of the demands of the five star movement here in europe. when it comes to defending the interests of small-scale fisheries, the optimisation of the fisheries supply chain is a crucial battle. the general concentration of the market and the rise of supermarkets, which are the distribution systems most used by consumers, have a negative impact on small-scale fishing which, let us remember, employs almost 78 000 fishermen throughout europe, more than half of them in italy alone. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. they therefore need forms of aid and financial support to enter new market segments. they need to speed up the timing of the funds allocation process: for example, if the fishery operator is authorised to operate for the member state, he should automatically be eligible for access to funds without having to prove this each time. in addition, we have called in this report for the strengthening of direct sales and marketing channels such as zero-mile farmers' markets, community markets and school canteens. finally, we proposed to increase assistance to networking activities, so as to create links between the companies involved in the various parts of the fair. we therefore voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the agricultural sector is suffering from a growing and alarming ageing of the workforce. only 6% of all farm managers in the european union are under 35 years old, while more than 50% are over 55. it is necessary to encourage the transition between generations within companies and to facilitate the integration of young people, especially those from other family backgrounds, into this sector. one of the main problems is the availability and price of agricultural land: the concentration of property and land speculation are making access increasingly difficult. the appropriate financial instruments are needed, and they are certainly useful measures: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the financial support must also be accompanied by training for new agricultural entrepreneurs. they must be trained in business management and financial skills, and also facilitated in the modernisation and use of digital technologies.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of the palestinian people is being met with a terrible insistence, namely the role of hamas. hamas is sending to the front line, close to the israeli border, with everything you can imagine, women and children even at a young age, with the very serious consequences that we have seen. a great drama, on which we have the positive intervention of egypt, which plays a moderating role, but a bad and dangerous role of the usual erdoğan, who stands as a catalyst, to blow on the fire again. i am speaking on behalf of a delegation which has always defended israel's integrity, but i do not feel exempt from denouncing the seriousness of the humanitarian situation in gaza and the deeply shocked and humiliated state of mind of a people who feel alone, defenseless, without a way out, abandoned by all, without sovereignty. in europe too, there is a risk that another people, thank god not in such a difficult situation, will feel humiliated and offended and without sovereignty, and that they will be treated by the european union as a colonial country. i do not want a political intifada to be unleashed against those responsible for this coup, for this indecent intervention by the european union against a free people who voted to have their own government!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 14 may was a black day. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all the palestinians who have been killed in the gaza strip, including the palestinian refugee camp in gaza, and for the immediate release of all the palestinians who have been killed in the gaza strip. the strong condemnation, even at the diplomatic level, of the inauguration of the us embassy was justified, but it is reductive to relegate the israeli-palestinian issue to all this. in fact, the us move to jerusalem is just one of the reasons that has rekindled the fighting. we cannot forget the effects of israel's decade-long blockade of the gaza strip, but above all the desire for a return to the home that the palestinians have been waiting for for seventy years. finally, we need to put the issue in a broader geopolitical context. my impression is that netanyahu, the saudi king and trump are a very dangerous mix for the whole region. it is therefore important that the european union stands firm against these developments, that it continues to exert pressure and that it uses its relations, including economic relations, with israel to push netanyahu to take a peaceful path. in this context, i also take this opportunity to urge the israeli supreme court to review its ruling and not to proceed with the forced relocation of the bedouin village of khan al-ahmar and the demolition of the school in gomm, which was built by the italian ngo "vento di terra" and has 160 children from 5 communities. the commission should also take action on this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, between the last plenary session and this one there were other demonstrations, with 62 deaths and about 2 000 injured. the victims probably include some hamas militants, but certainly many civilians. at this very delicate moment, in addition to legitimate complaints against the disproportionate use of force by the israeli army, there is also a need for a pars construens. i therefore fully support the proposals of the un special envoy for peace in the middle east, nicolay mladenov, who stressed that almost all the main infrastructure in gaza, particularly electricity, sanitation and water, is on the verge of collapse. he proposes a plan, and therefore the adoption of a rapid system, that would allow the management and implementation of un projects on the ground, the strengthening and coordination between palestinian authorities, israel and egypt to overcome the aforementioned obstacles, the call on all parties involved to commit to a lasting ceasefire, as agreed in 2014, the identification of project priorities in gaza for the next two years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fathi harb is a 20-year-old man, he has no money and no job, and his wife is expecting their first child. so, on the night of may 19th, fathi attempted suicide by setting himself on fire. fathi is just one of many young palestinians in the strip trapped in the rampant poverty of an open-air prison, a prison where the total lack of food and medicine adds up to 45 percent unemployment. and so the mass protests begin. and if on the one hand there are stones, bottles and molotov cocktails, on the other hand the live fire of the israeli armed forces' bullets ready to strike without hesitation. the report says that there were 60 dead and 2,800 injured. the only justification: the menacing shadow of hamas. the right to defend oneself does not justify the legality of such a horrible bloodbath. we call on israel to uphold the values of a democracy, to exercise self-restraint and stop this needless loss of life. the high representative is bringing everyone around the table to reason. the first enemy of peace is precisely this unacceptable status quo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the violence in nicaragua, which has left at least 76 demonstrators dead and many injured, as well as those opposed to the reform of social security. the inter-american council for human rights, which visited the country, denounced the indiscriminate use of firearms by law enforcement, as well as arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment of detainees and intimidation of journalists, and numerous ngos are calling on the nicaraguan government to immediately end repression and violence, promote a serious national dialogue for peace and have independent investigations to identify and prosecute the perpetrators of violence. it is therefore necessary, commissioner, for the european union to intervene with the nicaraguan authorities in order to guarantee full respect for human rights, in particular freedom of expression and the peaceful expression of one's ideas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it took only one spark - the proposal for reform of the social system - to start the fire in nicaragua. since then, 76 people have died in the fighting. the underlying reasons for the protest are many, but the underlying one is the accusation of ortega, in his third term, of trying to create a dictatorship in the country. first the students and then more and more people took to the streets to protest, each with their own demands, each with their own story. the reaction was violent and it was unacceptable: the police, as highlighted by the inter-american commission on human rights, have responded with a disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force. i firmly believe that the only possible solution to any crisis is dialogue. the parties must return to the negotiating table of the national dialogue as soon as possible and we as a union must support the process and the strengthening of democracy in every way. but i have an invitation for president ortega: if you truly love your people, as i believe you do, stop the violence against your citizens, sit down, listen to them, talk to them, negotiate. be prepared to back down if necessary. this is the right thing to do, the only thing.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tariffs which the americans want to impose on european steel and aluminium are not only unjustified, they are above all a means of obtaining something else. because all the concessions they have asked europe to spare it from trade sanctions are the worst demands that were already in the ttip. reduction of duties on certain products, including: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. it seems that the us is using sanctions to get a unilateral agreement that is even worse than ttip. and that, frankly, is unacceptable. as if that were not enough, even if we do reach an agreement, the americans will still introduce a quota for raw materials, placing a limit on how much european steel and aluminium we can export from them. commissioner, i understand that it is not easy to find a way out and i understand that some concessions are unavoidable, but i would like it to be clear that we will not accept ttip coming back through the back door, and above all we will not accept compromises on the skin and health of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for months the european union and other allies of the united states have been receiving threats to impose tariffs. as absurd as it sounds, the fate of millions of working people depends on trump's tweets on a monthly basis. the european union, in its leading role, cannot be subjected to this perverse game. i would therefore like to thank the commission for its efforts which have so far enabled europe to be excluded from these trade tariffs. the result, however fragile and temporary, is yet another demonstration of how much the european union, if united, can protect its citizens. it 's not enough . the commission has done well in announcing countermeasures and the activation of clauses against an increase in imports. our workers must not be afraid, and the european institutions must be ready to protect them at all costs. today, madam commissioner, you have a very great responsibility. we'll do everything we can to help you get through it. i want to send this message to trump: a relationship between partners is constructive only if it is based on dialogue. we will not accept the logic of threats, neither now nor in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner, but we have been in the habit for some time in this part of parliament of dealing with customs duties and tariffs. i am not a fan of market protection systems, but i am very much aware that it is legitimate, indeed obligatory, for those of us who respect the normal market rules to decide at some point - and we did so by amending the anti-dumping rules with mr cicu's report - to decide to protect ourselves against those who do not respect the market. well, in this case, we're in a totally different context. we said it and you said it again: the us tariffs on the eu are based on a completely different logic: it is in fact in the market that their initial uselessness is demonstrated. i think - and many of us know this - that american importers today have a very high price on the american steel market, to the extent that they would not stop buying european steel even if it were increased by 25% in the first place. this shows that these are duties which are totally unjustified and which follow a different logic. it is on that logic that you and the european union rightly decide to negotiate at a high level, which is primarily a political level, so that the united states will agree to remain our most important trading partner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that, as you have said, the next few days will be important in deciding and defining what new relations will be established between the european union and the united states. i think we should share many objectives, because we know that we are talking about overcapacity, we know that we are talking about rules within the wto that must achieve a level playing field. we have worked with you a lot within the european union system, in compliance with these rules, especially so that the protection of these rules will give rise to a capacity to defend our workers, our industry and our enterprise. but i also believe that trump, as you have repeatedly pointed out, is making a strategic re-centration argument of one dimension. i am glad that there is unity and i am glad that you are strategically working towards important objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the american administration to grant the european union an additional 30 days of exemption from steel and aluminium duties after 1 may gives hope that a global trade war can still be averted. we are at the beginning of a decisive week, in which negotiations are still possible. i very much appreciated commissioner malmström's position that she would not accept negotiations until the union had received an unconditional extension of the tariffs, so that it could take decisions which were sufficiently considered to avoid a trade conflict which would cost everyone, europeans and americans. but there are some things europe cannot go back on. during the campaign, president trump said that europe has many other barriers to importing american products, including our food quality standards and our environmental legislation. the food security guarantees we give our citizens and the commitments we have made at international level in the paris agreement must not be on the negotiating table.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the libyan question has been put back on the agenda in these hours, including today's meeting in paris, organized by french president macron, with a number of libyan and other personalities and individuals, including the high representative, mrs mogherini. the will to pursue the objective of stabilizing the country i believe can be a common objective, an ambitious objective, and i think that this can be best achieved if we work within a unified european framework, the only one that can ensure a positive success of the project. because common sense is important, but it alone is not enough to solve the problems we face. the situation in libya is unfortunately still characterized by factors of great instability, not least because the continued influence of armed groups on politics and the economy is dangerous and if we do not put up some resistance now, it is likely to increase. it should be clear to everyone that without political and institutional stabilisation many of the problems we would like to tackle will remain unsolved, starting with migration. i have no doubt about that, although i know that there is an open debate on the electoral issue, whether a constitutional basis must be established first or whether it is possible to vote before the constitutional basis. i think that one of the key steps in the project, in the action plan, is the organisation of the next electoral consultations, which can guarantee the full and shared participation of all the libyan components. this hypothesis arose from the paris summit of 10 december. this meeting is an essential step towards overcoming the stalemate and achieving minimum conditions for the country's governance and security, laying the foundations for a subsequent gradual stability. the recommendation we are proposing has these objectives. it is the result of a thorough discussion, not a simple one, not only because there is a very high level of interest in libya, but also because there are quite different views on the strategies to be adopted to contribute to the stabilisation and democratisation of the country. in drawing up the recommendation we followed a number of political criteria. firstly, to ensure consistency with the european foreign policy as interpreted by the high representative. the second is to support the action of the un, represented by salamé, which today, despite a thousand difficulties, seems to be the only way forward for libya. thirdly, to ensure support for all libyan forces interested in finding a political solution for libya, with a genuine national reconciliation operation. the fourth principle is to listen to the requests and appeals from the member states bordering the mediterranean, particularly italy, which are suffering the consequences of the lack of stability in that country. and finally, to tackle the issue of migrants with realistic determination, framing it in a broader strategy, capable of involving more subjects and allowing us to respond to issues that are very important to us, concerning the rights of persons and human rights. the aim of the recommendation seems to be quite clear: to take all necessary steps to achieve the broadest possible consensus on un action to ensure a stable future for libya in its political, institutional and constitutional structures.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative, it is both difficult and necessary to talk about libya. this is necessary because in our neighbourhood there is a country which since 2011 has been completely destabilised, and that is a harbour of threats that directly affect us. complicated not only by the dysfunctional institutional framework and the many internal and external actors present, but also because the context is constantly changing. that is why i want to express my concerns both about the form and the content of the paris summit, wanted by president macron, a reinforced replica of the one held, with little results, in july 2017. i firmly believe that no country, not even the most influential geopolitically, can presume and claim the right to impose a solution to a crisis through unilateral initiatives. rather than new plans and proposals, i believe that a balanced and negotiated position, a european position above all, is needed more than ever to give impetus to a road map which already exists, namely that of the united nations. and that message, my colleagues and i gave when we went to tripoli. the fact that individual countries are leaping ahead is likely to further complicate the situation, undermining the already precarious balance. reintegrating, as far as possible, the individual militiamen and not the militias into a single army and unifying the executives is the priority, but on the expediency of new elections by 2018, i agree with what the italian ambassador to libya said and above all repeated by many ngos: the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the country, which is suffering from a serious political crisis. the stakes are very high: in the last month alone, there have been two attacks, one in tripoli and one in benghazi. and as we speak a new threat is emerging, that of the radical salafist madkhalist group, increasingly powerful and cross-border. we must act, but we must do it together and without the usual subterfuge. what libya is today and what happened in 2011 should be a clear warning not to repeat the mistakes of the past.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i think that for once mr panzeri has performed a sort of miracle in uniting the chamber around not only his report, but also the common work with libya, for libya. i will touch upon a few specific points that were raised either in comments or questions, and specify, maybe in a better way than i’ve done previously, the sequencing and the meaning of the paris meeting in relation to the overall work we are doing in the international community. first of all, the specific points that were raised: transfer of the eu delegation to tripoli. we have been working on that constantly over the last months and i would hope and expect, to be able to give you good news in the coming weeks. in the meantime, some of you asked for eubam to be present in libya. as i said in my opening remarks, eubam is present in libya, and has been operating now from tripoli for several weeks. this is a major asset we have, because day-to-day work, especially with the border management agency and the criminal justice sector, is much more effective on the ground than from tunis. second, some of you referred to the role of the militias. as i said, but i want to underline this, it is clear to all that some of the members of the militias will need to be disarmed. this is an effort that is always complicated at the end of a transition of a conflict. it is also an aspect in which the european union and the member states have relevant know-how and competence. we have been working on this with several different conflict areas and crisis areas in the world. tomorrow this chamber will be listening to president santos, and he might tell us something interesting about how a disarmament process can be conducted, and we have also supported and helped there, so there is a way of doing this. it is not easy. it is never easy. on top of that, we are talking about libya, which i hope everybody understands is different to talking about norway. it is a different kind of country. some of the militia members will need to be integrated in one security force under civilian responsibility. this is also what has been discussed in paris and this is mainly what the un special representative is working on with our active accompanying role and support because, as i said, we have a specific competence and know-how in this. the third point that was mentioned and that i intentionally didn’t touch upon in my opening remarks is the issue of migration. i didn’t touch upon this because we have discussed several times the situation of migrants inside libya, and i believe that for once libya deserved a discussion on libya and libyans, and not purely focused on the situation of migrants in the country. even if we know very well that solving the libyan crisis would also be the best possible way to fight the traffickers’ networks, to save lives, and to guarantee a sustainable, manageable, humane approach to this. but as many of you said, we have now established, for the first time ever, a good pattern of work. thanks to the task force we – the european union, the african union and, the united nations – established last november, the three of us have managed in a few months, working on the ground, to help save 26 000 people from the detention centres. they have been able to return to their home countries voluntarily in an accompanied manner through the iom, with european union support. and another 1 600 people who were in the detention centres and who have been assessed as in need of international protection, with the status of refugees, through the unhcr, have been evacuated with a view to their resettlement. and as you know, we have also been providing resettlement opportunities inside the european union and helping the unhcr to find other resettlement opportunities around the world. it is the first time ever that work like this has accomplished, and this has been possible over the last few months thanks to an unprecedented partnership between the european union, the united nations and the african union. and just last week in brussels, when we had the college-to-college meeting between the european commission and the african union commission, we decided to extend the work of this task force, so we will continue working together on the ground in libya. and this is something we also discussed today with our libyan interlocutors in paris. last but not least, two points, one on the elections. it is clear, first of all, as mr castaldo mentioned, that elections need to take place in the context of a constitution and constitutional clarity under electoral law. i made it very clear not only in paris, but also in my opening remarks here. and the eu is now already providing supporting for the elections. it is the european union that is supporting the un’s work on the ground to prepare this road. as you know better than anyone else, we have a certain experience in accompanying countries in difficult situations to build up their way to credible elections. we have also committed to increasing our support for the organisation of the elections and, eventually, if the conditions are in place, we will contribute by sending an electoral observation mission to libya. the last point but not the least, the most important one. some of you referred to a paris agenda: let me be very clear on this. the reason for the meeting this morning in paris – very clearly specified and laid down by president macron – is to support the un work and to support the un road map. there is no competition between agendas here. it’s a matter of uniting forces for a coherent, regional and international accompanying work to the un, because we realised that if the regional organisations, the neighbouring countries, starting from the european union, the african union, the arab league, all the neighbouring countries in africa but also in europe, do not join forces to accompany every single step of the work done by the un and by the libyans, the entire agenda of the un road map risks slowing down. and libyan partners risk referring to one interlocutor or the other to take a slightly different path. so the unity of the international forces and the unity of the regional actors – starting from the european union, the arab league and the african union – is essential to support the work of salamé of and of the united nations. this is the sense of the meeting that i had this morning and this road map leading to elections hopefully – inshallah as we would say – on 10 december, can work only if there is: commitment and responsibility by the libyans and their country’s various institutions and leaders; unity of international and regional actors to accompany and support this work; and all of this converging under the un umbrella and leadership. if we have these three conditions in place, i believe that commitments can turn into concrete steps that would help lift the country out of the crisis. in all of this, the role of the european parliament will continue to be essential, so the praise for the excellent report and recommendations of mr panzeri should turn into a plea to continue the work actively supporting this process, especially as libya heads, hopefully, towards elections. the role of the european parliament in accompanying this process will continue to be key, it will actually become even more essential, so we count on you.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the high representative, mrs federica mogherini, and i fully agree with her conclusions. i shall dwell briefly on three points. i must confess that i always find mr nart's narratives very suggestive and i always consider his reference to the reality on the ground to be important and to be shared, but i think he would agree with me that it is precisely this reality that requires us to accelerate the process of reconciliation and to draw up quickly a road map that can help stabilize the country, and that is what we are indicating in some way in this recommendation. secondly, as regards the elections, i say to castaldo, let us not lose sight of the question of whether the chicken or the egg came first. i agree that an electoral law is absolutely necessary without which it is difficult to have a basis, but on the constitution we can also work to have only a first general reading and then have a confirmation afterwards. the vote and the recognition of the outcome is, as far as i am concerned, essential to ensure minimum conditions of governability in libya. finally, the migration issue is a very serious problem which was also confirmed by the visit of the european parliament delegation, and i know that there is this discussion around the coast guard and the european union mission, among other things there is a commitment to strategic review within the year of the eubam and sophia missions, and there we will actually discuss what needs to be updated and changed. some amendments have been accepted on the subject of immigration, although, and i say this with all seriousness, we cannot blame libya and the mediterranean countries, particularly italy, for the lack of a common european immigration policy, which i hope the next council of 28 and 29 will deal with appropriately. in conclusion, i am convinced that we have all the conditions, as the high representative said, with this recommendation to make our contribution, the contribution of the european parliament, to the process of stabilizing libya.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the schengen agreements are a pillar of the european project. we are talking about free movement of citizens without internal border controls, but also about strengthening the fight against organised crime by means of external border controls. the functioning of schengen is closely linked to basic points, namely mutual trust between the member states, cooperation and the exchange of information, all of which have been put to the test by the huge flows of migrants in recent years, with the result that, on the one hand, we have reached the unhealthy combination of migration and terrorism and, on the other, we have seen the border countries alone and in difficulty, and also accused. the weaknesses of the schengen area are therefore the weaknesses of the european union as a whole, and it is vital to find political will among all the member states to consolidate the european project, in such a way as to achieve real cooperation between all the member states and above all to achieve a fair distribution of responsibilities, protecting the freedom of citizens on the one hand and security on the other, and not suspending schengen to prevent secondary movements of migrants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment i am receiving calls and letters from a great many italian citizens asking me to defend them in these buildings and asking to be defended by these buildings. this should make us think: it is madness to think that we have turned european buildings into the first line of defence for the italian citizens. today there is an italian citizen, he sees a european flag, he does not see the future, he does not see hope, he does not see opportunities. unfortunately, today, if an italian citizen sees this europe, he sees the european war "4.0" and i am extremely concerned about this, a political war, a war of financial speculation, as we are witnessing in these hours. this europe has taken away the italian people's monetary sovereignty, it has taken away the sovereignty of border control, it has brought poverty, underground life, unemployment, insecurity, fewer births and therefore deaths as the cause of this european war 4.0. and so we ask this europe not to enter the italian vote, we ask this europe to leave the italian people free to choose their ministers, to choose their programmes, to choose their hope and our country. the league and many italian citizens are today calling loud and clear to remain free from this europe, otherwise it will become a europe that will disgust italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me to thank and congratulate mr coelho on his excellent work. i must say that i have heard italy mentioned many times today and so i will allow myself to make a concentrated reflection on italy and the schengen area. so the thinking is this: the citizens, the craftsmen, the traders, the people and the italians, see schengen is a great achievement, it must be managed well, it must be managed as well as possible, but i ask a question: what controls? would italy be good or bad? would italy get more or less? according to one analysis, first, it would get more trouble and so we already have enough. as regards immigration: the case of 20,000. when france expanded the controls, we kept them all inside. we have a problem with the external borders, and we must block them, not the internal borders. secondly: the brenner case. well, austria decided to increase the controls and we had 70 kilometers of queue, because in this case we have damaged the import and export trade of italians. i think it is the external borders that must be controlled, the ones where it is difficult to build walls like the sea, and the commissioner knows this well, given his origin, and so do other colleagues from the mediterranean. and let me say this: the italian people are asking for this, to remain in europe, but in a different europe. we are not leaving the euro or europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the closeness and condolences already expressed by my colleagues to the victims of liège. and the best response to terrorism is precisely the work that has been done by colleagues teresa and angelica and the approval of this that will happen, precisely because the need to recognize the legitimate interest of the victims and to make their voice and their interests heard is very important, precisely because we have the injustice that people are already victims of a crime and, secondly, victims of a system because of inadequate and non-existent protection. this is itself a form of secondary victimization. you see, reparation for the harm done to victims of crime must be immediate, comprehensive and effective, respectful of personal dignity and psychological integrity, which takes into account not only the damage to health, but also the pain and suffering suffered. the suffering and suffering of victims, which some states still struggle to recognise in their criminal codes, we also discussed recently in relation to the subject of stalking, a crime which is not recognised in all the member states within the union. and it's within the theme of stalking that the problem of cyber-security and cyber-crime is becoming more and more acute. so we are always ready to innovate, but we also want a 360-degree protection of our rights and our duties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my solidarity with the families of the victims of today's attack in liège, but i regret that in the european union several member states have not yet transposed, or at any rate fully implemented, the directive on victims of crime. while setting minimum standards, the directive stresses the importance of a social response to the suffering of victims, and calls on member states to do much more to support victims of crime by making an individual assessment of their needs according to the type and circumstances of the crime suffered, by providing adequate training for staff called upon to assist them at the various stages, both procedural and non-procedural, and by ensuring their full rights in court. in addition, awareness campaigns are needed to promote a real cultural change in public opinion, in order to avoid situations of secondary victimisation, distrust and blame towards victims of specific crimes, such as gender or sexual offences, which create particular suffering in victims, especially if they are young or very young.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too join all those who have spoken before me in expressing my condolences to the families of the victims of liège. the failure to transpose a directive into national law is not only a clear breach of community law but also means that the citizens of the member states which fail to comply will be discriminated against when it comes to defending their rights as european citizens. victims of crime must be able to enjoy the same rights, support and protection throughout the european union, regardless of their residence status. it is unacceptable that victims who do not have proper documents cannot report insecurity and situations of violence without risking penalties linked to their migrant status. we are talking about women, men, often minors, victims of forced labour, trafficking, gender-based violence, who cannot enjoy the rights, support and protection offered by this directive. the failure of the member states to comply with the directive cannot and must not create odious forms of discrimination. victims of crime, all victims of crime, must be at the heart of the criminal justice system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in the closeness and condolences of belgium and of course the families of those who have been affected by yet another vile attack. i believe that it is our task - colleagues have already said this, but i want to reiterate it here - to prevent victims of crime from feeling even more alone, and i believe that the work we are doing tonight, ladies and gentlemen, goes in some way in that direction, because being a victim of crime is an experience that is difficult to overcome, an experience that is often traumatic, which of course accompanies the victim for many years. and so i think that the directive we are discussing is a valid instrument, as has already been said, to do this, to accompany these people, to prevent them from feeling even more alone, but it needs to be applied better, it needs above all, as was said a moment ago, to be transposed by all those states which have still dramatically - i want to say this - not done so. and i think - let me say, mr president - that particularly on the issue of the protection of women who are victims of gender-based violence, we must continue our fight for the ratification, both at the level of the member states and at european level, of the istanbul convention, because unfortunately there is still a fight to be fought, which is essential for all women who are victims of violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and the rapporteur. it has been five years since the commission's proposal, and i say that we have finally reached a conclusion with tomorrow's vote. a dossier which is finally coming to light, and this is because it was strongly wanted by parliament, by the commission itself, and taking account of the vetoes which have been cast above all by the council, i believe that it is a central and important achievement. the european union is setting itself up as a reference, as a model for implementing rules which are consistent with the world trade organisation and which are extremely relevant. protection yes, defence yes, but in a process of liberalization, but also, and above all, in the interests of small and mediumsized businesses, of small industry, easier access, shorter time, the application of the minimum duty also in some cases, there is a percentage of 6% that is achieved compared to the application of the costs that are realized. in short, an overall outstanding and effective framework, so i thank the rapporteur and the commission for their work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, declaring the imposition of new duties three weeks in advance is an excessive advantage because it violates competition. this little-brave reform is also out of historical context. today the united states of america, with trump, gives us a concrete and real vision: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unfair competition. this europe, which has been bent over to the lobbies of the big corporations, has once again shown that it fears democracy. this alarm comes from those who suffer competition from those who exploit labour, being subject neither to our taxation nor to our rigid and costly environmental and social standards. this is one of the great failures of the union. the choice you have made is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would have expected our respected president of the republic to have raised his head with a proud gesture instead of being ready to accept this meddling europe. the italian people will no longer accept the disloyalty of this europe, and with democracy they will pay you back for these injustices.
the agenda includes a debate with luxembourg prime minister xavier bettel on the future of europe (2018/2622 ((rsp)). before i greet the prime minister, before i give him the floor, i remind you that you can request the "catch the eye" using the electronic voting machine. to submit your request, simply insert your ballot card and use any of the electronic voting buttons. i'm going to open the system now and it will remain open for the duration of prime minister bettel's speech.
mr. prime minister, i'm pleased to welcome you to our table. as you know, the european parliament has decided to invite all the prime ministers of the european union to debate the future of europe. we believe that this is a good way of putting parliament at the heart of the political debate. it is also a way of strengthening the dialogue between parliament and governments, that is, with the council. this exchange of ideas will be like a game of ping-pong with you, but i know you like this system, because you are a very active prime minister. this formula gives members the opportunity to discuss with several prime ministers. it will be so until the end of this parliamentary term. i therefore think it will be very interesting to hear the position of the luxembourg government, which is also the country of the president of the european commission, mr juncker, whom i welcome. it will be very interesting to hear your thoughts, because luxembourg is one of the countries at the heart of europe and has been european since the beginning of our union's history. so we're very happy to have you with us. i think this debate will be very interesting. once again, thank you very much, prime minister.
i remind you that we must conclude the debate at 11.30. i would ask you to respect the time allotted to you because the more you speak the less the other colleagues will speak, thank you. on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, i should like to address mr verhofstadt.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister, president juncker, this series of debates on the future of europe is in danger of becoming something else, a debate on the past, on the failures and mistakes that led to the collapse of the european union. if we go on like this, if you go on like this, there will be nothing left to discuss. one thing is certain: the future of europe will have to be very different from the present. these days, a founding country, italy, is experiencing dramatic moments. we were this close to a dream come true, but we might wake up in a nightmare. almost 20 million italians voted in the elections on 4 march for two political forces that would form a government of change. our goals are an anti-corruption law, to take over the golden pensions, to take away the power of the lobby, to eliminate privileges, to put the citizens at the center. but that doesn't seem possible. the council of ministers has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is the council of ministers which is taking the decision. i ask you: is this democracy? and all this has been done with the complicity of the european union. you've tried in every way and on every level. how can we not remember the warnings and threats of the european commissioners? what a shame! what a mess! commissioner oettinger told a german tv station yesterday, without apologising, that the markets will teach italians how to vote for the right thing. you heard me . markets will teach you how to vote. we are outraged and shocked, and it should not be a german commissioner who tells us how italians or other european citizens should vote, not today and not ever. i repeat, what a shame and what a misery! but you see, we're not even surprised. the commission has done everything but protect the interests of the citizens, as president juncker's history shows. you have made us pass as modern barbarians within the walls of rome, as those who want to destroy the european union, to leave the euro, to undermine the markets. no, it's not like that! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. we say it clearly to you, once again: we do not want to destroy the european union, the euro or the markets. is the future of europe at stake? yes, and it's not our fault, but it's because of this failed present that you've built. and get out of these buildings, listen to the cry of the citizens, don't be deaf, it's your turn to do your homework. where are the eurobonds? where are the fiscal transfers between surplus and deficit countries? and the unacceptable surpluses on the current accounts of germany and the netherlands. i take advantage of the presence of the prime minister of luxembourg, mr bettel. why are there still tax havens in the eurozone? the present that is not working is what europe is asking us to do, but the future will have to be - the citizens are asking you to do it - the future of europe will be if we question those treaties that are failing it, if we re-examine austerity, the insane management of immigration, the big trade agreements that harm citizens in favour of multinationals. the europe of the future is not one that cuts the pensions of citizens with one hand and increases those of the european institutions by 6% with the other. the europe of the future respects the will of the people and does not allow the vote of the citizens to be trampled on by the rating agencies, the banks or the special interests of some state. yes, that's right, you won again today. enjoy these moments! come on, libertarians, go celebrate with the giggling and ignorance of the class leaders. you see, it is only a matter of time, and then the government of change will be born in italy, and then others will be born all over europe. this is the only great future we see for europe: change, there is nothing else, nothing but change.
thanks for the offer. let us now move on to the debate. i would ask you to respect the time limit, one minute for each member, for the catch the eye. i'm going to the hospital. catch the eye procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the prime minister of luxembourg, who made speeches which were in part very agreeable, and who also expressed his closeness to italy and his understanding of the passing of time. i agree with what you say about the need for a stronger europe, more competitive than other countries and the challenges that other large economies are throwing at us. but i wanted to ask you: does he not think that the economic crisis of 2008 has highlighted the need for this european union, which at the time had somehow abandoned a project of fiscal harmonization, to limit itself instead to the coordination of both fiscal and social policies, and which has therefore limited itself to a government of differences, to have somehow laid the foundations for so much dissatisfaction, mistrust, but above all suffering of so many citizens, businesses and families? do you not think that the time has come to remedy the negative effects of this tax competition, to correct the distortions which it is precisely this tax competition within the european union that causes? we see it a little bit every day.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, prime minister bettel, among the many subjects that have been discussed, and while we share the view that europe must be reformed, but strengthened in its construction, i believe that there is a central theme, that of cohesion policy, of course, but also and above all that of trade policy. we have passed in this parliament, this season, two extremely important and central measures for our industry, for our small and mediumsized enterprises, for the protection and defence of thousands of jobs. i am convinced that this process must be strengthened further and better in the spirit of liberalization, but also of pluralism, and certainly also, and above all, of rules which must be safeguarded within the wto. we're going through a season of trump tariffs, with unfair competition from china. our workers, our small and mediumsized enterprises want concrete answers, that is, they want this europe to be close to them with facts. i do not believe in demagoguery, i do not believe in populism, i believe in the content, i believe in the quality of government action, but i also believe, and above all, in a europe that overcomes the selfishness of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say to the luxembourg president, whose speech i listened to with great interest and commitment, that the debate on the future of europe in my country, italy, is heating up these days. it's not just hot, it's hot. and on this idea of europe, not only italian but european destiny can be staked. as europeans, we democrats are convinced that there is no future for italy except within this context, of which we feel that we are protagonists, not a side-line. but it is clear that to be truly european we must build europe day by day, consistently. it is not possible to declare oneself a europeanist one day and the next to be anti-european, anti-system, anti-euro, 'anti-titute' and to start fires. that is why i want to stress here that italy, whose constitutional foundation and the clarity of our position within this europe we hold firmly, is a country which will work day by day to strengthen this institution, to bring it closer to the citizens, not to the markets, to the citizens, to their needs, and that is why we want a more united, more solidary and more social europe. but we do this every day, consistently, like other political forces in italy, but not like those who one day tear down the system and the next day say they want to build it. no, we won't go on with them, neither in europe nor in italy.
the green group has had all its time because it was taken up by the chairman of the verhofstadt group, but since i am trying to be flexible, if the luxembourg prime minister is patient, i would now give the floor to three members who were absent, one from the green group and one from the epp, namely mr goerens, mr in 't veld and mr virkkunen, and then we will reply, but you should know that you have had all your time. it is a matter for the liberal group to decide who is to speak, so this is a concession which the other groups also make to you, two minutes more. please on. in 't veld.
prime minister of luxembourg. mr president, if i understand correctly, i have 27 seconds left to answer 60 questions, so it's going to be a little limited. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the many speakers who have asked questions about luxembourg and i will take the liberty of answering them in the style of a telegraph in some cases. but i missed one topic, because very few members have raised it, and that is digital. some spoke about the future or wondered about the challenges of the future, but very few asked me about the digital strategy at european level. but it will be a challenge, today economic, tomorrow social, if we are not prepared to make efforts at the level of the digital single market and if we do not reduce the digital market gap at european level with 28 laws, 28 regulators and a common market that does not exist at that level. tomorrow is digital. i remember when i took over the presidency, some meps asked me whether this was an opportunity to be seized or a danger. it's a blessing if we're ready and it's a danger if we're not. and we'll only be ready if we can make this deal 28 of us, together. mr president, some members have spoken to me about schengen and the situation in their countries in this respect. i support them in their efforts to join the schengen area. i think they have the will to access free movement. but on the other hand, i must say that at present we have - both at the level of enlargement and at the level of schengen - preconditions which must push us to move quickly so that these countries arrive in an area where the rules we give ourselves work. today we do not have a common migration policy. for someone who is in the schengen area, we have no rules, everyone has their own rules. i would therefore like to see us quickly come up with rules that work to explain to people that this schengen area works. because if the message is right, we enlarge schengen, we enlarge the european union, but if we do not try to make it work better, i do not know if the message will be understood. but we must open the schengen area to these countries as soon as possible, as i have just said. mrs veld spoke about institutional matters. i do not want to be rude, mrs veld, but believe me, the citizens do not care whether we have a finance minister or whether the president of the council and the president of the european commission are the same. they don't care! today they want to know how security works, whether tomorrow they will be able to get a job, whether they have rights in their country, freedom of the press, freedom of speech. but institutional questions, whether we have transnational lists or not, are a brussels, strasbourg or luxembourg bubble. you should know that this is not really the daily concern of most citizens and that they have other questions, other expectations from the european institutions than to ask how they will function tomorrow. we'll have to do it. and i think if we're more efficient, we'll perform better. but to make it appear as a priority is, in my view, not the right direction. we talked about the rule of law and a member of the european parliament also spoke about the structural funds. as i said earlier, i think that linking the rule of law to the structural funds could have the opposite effect. by saying that if the rule of law is not respected, the structural funds will be cut, we risk having the farmers, students, industries and workers who are working and who today can benefit from the structural funds on our backs. if we say to them: "we will cut them tomorrow", we will push them to the extreme, and they will say: "it is brussels and strasbourg who have decided that we will not receive anything anymore". i therefore think that we must find more effective mechanisms, which work, and, in fact, above all, punish the politician rather than, in the end, the citizen, because we would only be reinforcing his idea that brussels and strasbourg decide for him. you mentioned brexit. i hope we can move forward on brexit. i had made a little description to explain how brexit worked, starting by reminding that at the time they were in the family, they were in but they wanted to have a lot of opt-outs. now they're out and they want a lot of opt-ins. it's the reality. i think what is important is to keep a level playing field. it is not that we want to punish britain, but if we tolerate cherry-picking today and britain can choose the advantages without having the constraints, without having certain obligations, we will foster a situation in which every state can say to itself: i too want a europe like britain. therefore, we must have common rules and we must tell britain that you cannot have just one without having the other. the whistleblowers, we talked about that. luxembourg was one of the first countries to have legislation on whistleblowers - this was already in 2011 - and the recent judgment of the court of cassation confirms the case law of the european court of human rights. some of them raised the issue of taxation. as i said, luxembourg has made considerable efforts and the negotiations on the common base - some have also raised the question of corporation tax - in the council are still far from being completed. many technical questions remain to be clarified and we are also participating constructively in this work, particularly with a view to determining the impact of these two proposals on national budgets. you can't say "we're doing it" without knowing what the impact will be. we need to have all the information we need. but what was very important to me was to know that substantial progress had been made in the fight against aggressive tax planning also at the internal market level. we are talking about social dumping in europe, but we must also talk about fiscal dumping. i am the first to want to stop a race to the bottom where the stakes would be who has the lowest rate in europe. how do you want us to explain to our fellow citizens that some companies are always paying less in taxes? mr weber spoke earlier about citizens. of course, if we give the citizens the impression that a company does not pay taxes when they should, we will provoke them again. the result will be a political upheaval, which will lead to political crises which we ourselves have caused by accepting fiscal dumping. another type of dumping which is not often mentioned is environmental dumping. it exists today, with the united states, which has decided to leave the paris agreement. it may be useful, one day, to discuss the criteria for lists relating to the environment and to draw up a blacklist of states which, at home, do not respect the criteria which are our common heritage. some people in this chamber have said - i believe it was mr lamberts - that heritage is not something you buy in a supermarket. it is a common heritage. we talk about 'social' and 'fiscal', but we often forget that there is environmental dumping today, because some countries do not want to comply with certain rules for economic reasons. some have asked what my visions for youth are. i told you earlier, we feel like we've got it all figured out. we have a problem on a political level. i often hear politicians say that everything that goes well is thanks to them, but when something goes wrong, it is brussels' fault, while they forget that brussels is them. they sit in the council, their country sits in the commission, their meps sit in the chamber. they forget that since the treaty of lisbon, national parliaments have more power. it is so easy to say, when things go wrong, 'it is the fault of ...', 'it is a directive, it is a regulation, it is brussels that imposes it on us', whereas brussels is mrs merkel, mr macron, or myself, it is the meps of their country and they are the commissioners. but it is easy to reason as if brussels were some kind of alien with whom we have nothing to do, and that brussels decides for us. you know, without wanting to criticize my colleagues in britain, it is very difficult, when you circulate from monday to saturday a message saying that we do not like europe, to ask people on sunday to vote for the european union. i would like to return to the question of young people. they are the cornerstone of the european union. we must make young people passionate about europe again. erasmus is an important element. when i go to school and talk about europe, i explain that i knew the borders when i was a student in thessaloniki and i went to turkey, or to the country whose capital is skopje, or to bulgaria. at that time there were borders that i did not know as a luxembourg. as a luxembourg citizen, i was taking my car, i didn't even know if i was in germany, france or belgium. i wasn't asking myself that. today, a young person does not know that there were border posts. he's only ever known the euro. he's traveling without a passport. he leaves without needing the e411 form, the form we had at the time to get medical care. today i have rights abroad, i can go to study in another country, i can go there to get married, i can give birth, vote, work, retire, i can go to live in another member state than my own. i no longer pay any roaming charges when i am abroad. all of this is common knowledge. young people today don't realize that it's people who are causing all this. the recognition of diplomas is also one of these achievements. so let us remember what we have been able to build since 1957. today, let me say it again: the european project, which some here have criticised, is first and foremost a peace project. who would have thought in 1957 that we could put french and germans side by side? that those who had been friends for a few years would now want to build a joint project? so, mr president, i will devote all my energies to this european ideal. we feel that everything is taken for granted, but believe me, rights, liberties, peace are not something that is taken for granted, easy or acquired. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you to prime minister bettel for joining us this morning. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
yesterday, russian journalist and writer arkady babchenko was shot dead in his home in kiev. babchenko was among the most prominent russian war correspondents, he had to leave his country in 2017. he had been the victim of death threats and a hate campaign on social media, unleashed against him because of his work as a journalist and his political views. this vile murder is a new, unacceptable attack on the freedom of the press and on journalists who uphold our values and our democracies. this parliament calls for the full truth to be revealed about the death of babchenko and for the perpetrators of this brutal murder to be brought to justice, not only the perpetrators but also the perpetrators. it is our duty to support the media's efforts for freedom, including by honouring the memory of journalists who paid with their lives for their thirst for truth, such as anna politkovskaja, daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak. until we find out who ordered the murders of these last two journalists, we will not be silent. as regards the arrest and subsequent release in spain of bill browder, we have received information, as requested by mr verhofstadt, but we have also received positive news, this british national activist was arrested and then released by the spanish authorities. the information available at the moment indicates that bill browder was initially arrested by the spanish police on the basis of an international arrest warrant, the warrant was not subsequently validated and bill browder was released. i recall that bill browder is the co-founder of the russian asset management firm hermitage, whose lawyer sergei magnitsky was murdered in a russian prison in 2009. in 2014, this parliament adopted a resolution calling for sanctions against 32 russian citizens involved in various ways in the magnitsky murder. we are following developments closely and are in contact with the spanish authorities for more detailed information on what has happened.
ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to welcome the president of colombia, juan manuel santos, today in strasbourg: the first latin american leader to address the plenary in the last six years. we must put latin america back at the centre of our foreign policy agenda. colombia has undergone a unique and historic moment under your presidency with very important achievements. i am referring to the entry of colombia into nato - the only latin american country to have done so - the trade agreement concluded with the european union, but above all the historic peace agreement which you, president santos, managed to conclude with the farc after more than half a century of conflict. this won him the nobel peace prize in 2016. the european union has always supported the peace process politically and economically. this will continue in the future. the first round of the presidential elections, held last sunday, took place for the first time without violence. this is very positive. the european union must be more present and contribute with investments and economic diplomacy so that steps are not taken backwards, so that we can continue on the path of peace, economic growth and poverty reduction, because the efforts made by the santos government and the colombians to achieve stability are at risk because of the worrying situation in venezuela. colombia, like other countries in the region, is facing the largest displacement of people ever recorded in latin america, and there is a risk that the situation will worsen and lead to a real refugee crisis. the european parliament therefore called for urgent assistance to be given to the countries concerned and announced that it would send a delegation to the border posts to assess the situation. thank you, mr. president, for your work. you have the floor now. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of colombia. mr president, mr antonio tajani and honourable members of the european parliament, i am very honoured to address this international legislative body, the representative par excellence of european democracy, to speak about peace and its challenges. last sunday, just three days ago, the first round of elections was held in colombia to choose my successor as president of the republic. we were accompanied by a multi-party committee of the european parliament - eight meps - and a mission of electoral experts from the european union, who were able to verify the vitality, plurality and transparency that today characterize colombian democracy. two candidates received the majority of votes, and between them the colombians will decide on june 17 who will preside over the destinies of the nation until august 7 of the year 2022. this was not an ordinary election, nor were the parliamentary elections last march. these are the first elections, after more than half a century, that we have without the threat and interference of the internal armed conflict with the farc guerrillas, the largest and oldest in the americas. it was also the safest, most transparent, with the greatest guarantees, with the greatest number of observers, and most importantly, with the greatest participation in our history. even my most staunch opponents say so. seeing rodrigo londoño, formerly alias timochenko, former farc commander and now head of his political party, voting for the first time says it all. (applause) that, ladies and gentlemen, makes a big difference, and that is why this time the candidates' discussions focused on issues such as education, health, pensions, public security or taxes, and no longer - as had happened for so many years - on the absurd war we were suffering. i am not here to tell you that colombia has already achieved complete peace, because it has not. the threat of a last guerrilla, much smaller than the farc, the eln, with which we are currently holding peace talks in havana, and also organized crime groups dedicated to the nefarious business of drug trafficking, remains. but the achievement of the demobilization and disarmament of the farc, and its constitution as a political party - without prejudice to its leaders and main responsible parties having to undergo a transitional justice process - has fundamentally changed the landscape and perspective of our country. and whoever my successor is, this advance towards peace is final. it's not reversible. not only because our own constitutional court has so ordered, but because it is the pledge of the colombian state. it is also a commitment to the international community. never in the history of the united nations, for example, has the security council unanimously adopted so many resolutions in favour of a process. because, as secretary-general guterres said at the last assembly, colombia is the only good news the world had today. but it is irreversible, mainly because no one wants to return to the horrors of war. in a world where intolerance and confrontation between societies and nations are still a constant, it is great news that in colombia - a country with more than 50 million inhabitants and all the potential to contribute positively to humanity - an armed conflict has been brought to an end which has left more than 8 million victims and more than 270 000 dead. in a world where some still prefer the option of arms to dialogue and coexistence, it is good to be able to tell you that the weapons that so many colombians used against each other are now being turned into monuments of peace. because without peace no society can achieve true development. a little over two weeks ago, in the convent of assisi, in your country, mr president, in italy, i had the pleasant opportunity of presenting to german chancellor angela merkel the lamp of peace given to her by the franciscan community, which protects saint francis of assisi, the patron of peace of the catholic church. a highly symbolic recognition that i also had the honor of receiving in 2016. and on that day i recalled - as i want to recall here today - the legacy of coexistence that the european union represents for the world. and the norwegian committee summed it up well when it awarded you, the europeans, the nobel peace prize in 2012: it said that its most important achievement - yours - has been the successful struggle for peace and reconciliation, and for democracy and human rights. europe has been an example in this, and that example must continue to illuminate the path of humanity. because only peace and reconciliation, only democracy and respect for human rights can counter the harmful influence of nationalism, fundamentalism, racism, populism and intolerance. (applause) and i can think of no better scenario than this one to thank the european union and the nations that make up it for their determined and ongoing support of our peace process, and this complex phase that we are now facing, which is the post-conflict phase. we feel that the european union is with us in the pursuit of the supreme good of any society, which is peace. and we greatly appreciate the work of your special envoy eamon gilmore, not only during the negotiation process but also now, in the implementation phase of the agreement. a year and a half ago, the european union trust fund was set up in brussels to support post-conflict colombia, with an initial capital of 95 million euro. some 62 million euros have already been committed to various projects, such as the case of the indigenous community of nasa in the south of the country, which has already exported its first container of coffee to europe thanks to this contribution. another project, for example, for small farmers in areas recovered from the conflict, who have been able to achieve the bio-certification of their products, thereby increasing their income by at least 15%. the european union has also offered eur 400 million of repayable cooperation through the european investment bank. and it has committed another 85 million euros to cooperation programmes for humanitarian demining, sustainable development, the fight against climate change, innovation, technology, education, human rights... look at this encouraging fact: thanks to the end of the armed conflict with the farc, and to the international cooperation that you are providing us, colombia went from being the second country with the most victims caused by anti-personnel mines to being the tenth today. and we're going down. we have 673 municipalities planted with anti-personnel mines and we have already been able to declare 225 - a third of them - as suspect mine-free. you can't imagine what this means for the peasants of those alleys, who can now walk their land and work their plots without fear! and we hope to reach the year 2021 as a completely mine-free country. we are thus making progress - with difficulties, of course, but with firm steps and with the help of the european union - in the peace building that follows the signing of the peace agreement. because it's one thing to silence the guns and stop the bloodshed and stop the deaths that come from the conflict. and another, even more far-reaching task is to reconcile hearts and ensure opportunities for progress for millions of families who suffered the consequences of violence. only then can a stable and lasting peace be consolidated. and in this respect, you europeans have been a great ally of colombia. thank you for your company! thank you for your support! our country offers the international community, in return, a successful model of peace process. in a world full of unresolved conflicts, colombia's peace process has become a laboratory that can be useful for trying solutions in other scenarios. ours was a sui generis process because it did not simply set the conditions for the end of the armed conflict - as is the usual - but focused on asserting the rights of the victims, the rights to truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition, and on implementing - and this is very important - development plans in the areas most affected by the conflict. i mean, more than a pact to end the war, it was a pact for humanity and development, a more just, more inclusive development, that focused on the victims of that war. the peace agreement establishes a comprehensive system for the fulfillment of victims' rights that includes a truth commission, a missing persons unit and a transitional justice system that "experts say" is a model for the world, being the first time a peace settlement is made under the umbrella of the rome statute. and in any peace process, one of the most difficult aspects is to reconcile society's demand for justice - that is, sanction - with society's own desire for an end to the confrontation. the eternal dilemma between justice and peace! our challenge was to achieve a transitional justice system that guaranteed maximum justice without sacrificing peace, respecting our constitution, respecting our international treaties, such as the rome statute. and i think we did it. now colombia will see a new dawn, a much better future without the burden of armed conflict. but we know it's just the beginning of a long road. in addition to the implementation of the agreement to end the conflict with the farc - which is itself long and complex - we have another challenge ahead, an immense challenge: to build peace in the minds and hearts of colombians, accustomed for so long to hate and disqualify the adversary. we are saddened by the murders of social leaders, human rights defenders, representatives of the victims, ex-combatants, which have occurred since the signing of the peace agreement, and i want to assure you here that the colombian state is committed to clarifying these cases and to putting a stop to this situation. we have set up - and are running - a national commission for guarantees, which i myself chair, to coordinate between the various institutions the actions to protect the communities and their leaders. we have already clarified 40% of the cases reported to the prosecutor general's office and we are determined to continue to move forward so that those responsible are punished and so that no more murders occur. that is our greatest challenge today as a society: to learn to recognize the other, to learn to live together in the midst of difference, to learn to process disputes without violence, something in which you in europe have made positive progress. i am an optimist because i know that the values of unity, love, tolerance, compassion are more powerful than the counter-values of fear, hatred, revenge, exclusion. this is a universal truth, applicable not only in colombia, but around the world, for example, in the fight against terrorism or the management of the migrant crisis. i said it when i received the nobel peace prize and i want to say it again today in this iconic auditorium of a continent that has given the world a lesson of unity in diversity. human beings have to understand that, beyond all differences, beyond all nuances, in the end we are one people and one race: of all colors, of all beliefs and of all preferences. our people, ladies and gentlemen, are called the world. and our race is called... humanity! (applause) i would like to thank i cannot help but mention a problem which concerns us all: drug trafficking. the colombian conflict would have ended much sooner without the fuel that the illicit drug business provided. this damned business is behind violence, corruption and crime almost all over the planet, and we have to recognize that the so-called 'war on drugs' which has been declared for more than half a century in the united nations itself, we have not won it and we are not winning it. i say this as the representative of a nation that has been perhaps the biggest victim of this bloody business, which has taken away our best soldiers and policemen, our best judges and journalists, our greatest political leaders. the way the war on drugs is being fought is as harmful or even more harmful than all the wars being fought in the world today combined. that is why it is not only indispensable, but also reasonable to change our strategy. we must find a way of striking more effectively at the strongest links in the drug trafficking chain, the big mafias, those who launder assets, those who produce inputs, instead of continuing to persecute farmers or the addicts themselves. there are more people in prison in the united states for drug-related offenses than there are in all of europe. drug policy with a purely punitive and repressive approach has failed. until we find common strategies that are more effective, the drug business will continue to undermine the health of our young people, the morale of our societies and the governance of our countries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to strasbourg, to the european parliament, to share with you the reality of colombia and to thank you from the bottom of my heart for your support for our present and our future. between europe and colombia, between europe and latin america, there are more and more links and fewer barriers. august marks five years since the implementation of the eu-colombia free trade agreement, which has benefited our economies and strengthened our trade and investment ties. and i also want to thank and acknowledge the great step that was taken in exempting colombians from the schengen visa requirement, which has contributed to more tourism, more business, more integration between colombia and europe, and more dignity for colombians. i'll just give you this figure: while in 2015 340,000 colombians traveled to countries in the schengen area, last year more than 550,000 did. that's the world we want: a world with more bridges and fewer walls, a world of solidarity where friendship flourishes, where cooperation flourishes, a world of open arms and open hearts. and speaking of cooperation and integration, this afternoon in paris i will be signing with the secretary-general of the oecd, in the presence of president macron, the agreement which documents the decision of this organization to admit colombia as its thirty-seventh member. (applause) this is a very important achievement, which i share with the european nations that endorsed and supported our entry, and which will ensure that our country meets the highest standards in governance practices, in economic and social policies. we are also the first latin american state to become a member of the so-called 'global nato partner', which i will also be formalising tomorrow in brussels. and i'm handing over to my successor, in a little over two months, a country without armed conflict with the farc; a country with less poverty, with more equality, with more jobs, with more and better education, with a health system that now has universal coverage, with much better infrastructure, and a country committed to caring for our extraordinary biodiversity. and how good it is to be able to leave this legacy! i would like to conclude by recalling the words of robert schuman in his famous declaration of 1950: 'world peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts commensurate with the dangers which threaten it'. in colombia and in europe we are making these 'creative efforts' and that is why i am here today, before you, to confirm our willingness to work, to work for peace, but above all to say thank you, thank you very much, to the generous people of europe. (applause from the left)
thank you very much, mr. president. when the members stand up, the message is very clear. thank you for joining us!
as usual, i take note of your request and also of the agreement that a part of the house has given to your request and i forward it to the president of parliament, because that is the custom.
in relation to the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 69c (1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 28 may, i have not received requests for a vote in the house from a number of members or from one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold of 10%. these committees can therefore start negotiations.
i should like to point out that the vote on the morin-chartier and jongerius report was carried out in full transparency and in accordance with rule 59 of parliament's rules of procedure, which provides that the provisional agreement takes precedence in the vote and is the subject of a single vote, unless parliament, at the request of a political group or a number of members equal to at least the low threshold, i.e. 5%, decides instead to vote on the other amendments in accordance with paragraph 4. the request by the enf group to vote on other amendments was put to the vote, this request was rejected and the president therefore put the provisional agreement to the vote, as provided for in the rules of procedure. let us now proceed with the votes.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
i thank you for your comment, but the bureau has already spoken on this.
look at that. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted, but that it has been consulted and that the documents have been translated and are all available, so we take note of your comments, but we shall proceed with the vote. before the vote on amendment no 41:
mr president, i understand that you said that the 170 part one was rejected. if that's the case, i'd like to ask for a check.
it's not that i said it, it's the verification, let's say, of the hands that have been raised, now on the first part of 170, i'm available to do a verification. so, we're back to 170, part one, the vote is open.
hautala, thank you for your affection, is there any objection to this request? no one is standing, so let's put it to a vote. (the oral amendment was accepted)
we'll ask the services to verify, thanks for the tip.
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. all the remaining explanations of vote which cannot be accepted will be examined tomorrow after the votes. other explanations of vote may be submitted in writing.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the largest market for fishery products in the world, largely fed by imports from third countries. producer organisations play an essential role in these continuous exchanges through their production and marketing plans. let's take an example. italy is the best. italy is one of the countries with the largest number of producer organisations formed by artisanal fishermen. for countries such as italy, therefore, the creation of targeted measures to control access to the european market represents a great opportunity for small fishermen to compete successfully with imported or industrial fishery products. uniform requirements for fishery products sold in the european union are needed, and mr engström's work is geared towards this, with the aim of enabling consumers to make informed choices and to avoid being the victims of incorrect labelling, as has been demonstrated by various studies. this requires targeted measures: the commission has also proposed that the member states should establish common rules on the protection of the environment, such as common marketing and control rules, with associated penalties, also applied to conservation measures, in order to promote a transparent and quality market. market measures are needed to increase the traceability of fish caught, and rewards and incentives for sustainable fishing practices. these are therefore priorities which are welcome in the report which we have supported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i recognize the need for each member state to adapt the common agricultural policy to its own needs, i am firmly opposed to the idea of nationalizing the cap. the current two-pillar architecture should be maintained, but the existing system for calculating direct payments in the first pillar should be modernised and replaced by a method for calculating payments at european level. the new cap must set itself ambitious objectives, it must ensure that food is produced in sufficient quantities and is safe, it must protect its competitiveness on international markets, protect farmers from price volatility and market crises, and support the family dimension of european agriculture and, above all, the new generations of farmers. and i believe that the priorities of the future cap must include the need to make farms more sustainable and to fully engage in the circular economy and to promote innovation, research and smart practices. but these objectives can only be achieved with a cap that is sufficiently financed and therefore without budget cuts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it should be made clear that the cuts to agriculture, the cuts to the cap, are a great disappointment. they are a disappointment in relation to the objectives which the european union must have, namely a strong and cohesive agriculture which can protect the agri-food chain, which has an absolutely extraordinary added value, particularly in our country, italy. and i believe that these cuts are not primarily in the interest of quality agriculture, agriculture which must see a new frontier, that of young people, young people linked to a territorial identity, but above all to a brand identity, a guarantee brand that leads to the zero kilometre, which we have always wanted. so this europe is not going in the right direction, especially because of what is happening, namely imports, in particular of agri-food products which need barriers, tariffs, i think of rice coming from south-east asia, which is in danger of jeopardizing traditional crops which, in particular in lombardy, have a centuries-old tradition. and all this is accompanied by a series of, i would say, particularly harmful contradictions, such as the statements of commissioner oettinger which are aimed at creating even more disaffection in a state like our own, italy.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a series of press reports, the golden visa business is fuelling a market in the european union reserved for wealthy foreign nationals who come to invest in the absence of standard rules of control and transparency. citizenship and rights of entry and residence have become the bargaining chip for substantial investment. there is a high risk that national programmes which link the granting of residence permits, the possibility of living and working in europe, the possession of citizenship and even the payment of a price to wealth, will encourage corruption and money laundering of dubious origin, weakening the fight against these phenomena. there are programs that would provide secrecy about who gets the golden visas, and there would be little detail about the investments and who benefits from them. the european union must make the fight against corruption and money laundering effective by closely and constantly monitoring the programmes relating to golden visas, in order to protect its borders from financially able and corrupt criminals.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am very happy about today's debate on civil protection, because it means that we have respected the time and the deadlines that we had set for ourselves. we have worked well and quickly, but above all well in spite of the tight deadlines and i must really thank all the colleagues who in the various committees, starting with the environment committee and all the other committees for opinions, have worked in a great spirit of constructive collaboration to give a rapid response to our citizens and we have achieved the objectives set. thank you very much, everyone. besides, civil defense is a fascinating world. once you come into contact with this world you can't you can't forget it, you can't leave it, because civil protection means passion, it means competence, training, generosity, humanity. there are many volunteers, thousands and thousands, hundreds of thousands, if we look in all the european countries at the volunteers who are part of it. we must recognize that a great leap in quality had already been made in relation to civil protection in the last legislature, when we had moved from an ad hoc mechanism to this mechanism that we now know of pre-committed means and capacities, because we had learned the lesson from japan. we know, and we must never forget, that even the most prepared country, japan, could become, given the level of catastrophe it faces, an unprepared country. and we are here today to strengthen the mechanism which has shown some weaknesses, and for that i must thank commissioner christos stylianides in particular, who, as soon as the analysis came out, which showed the weaknesses and the room for improvement, immediately went into action with this proposal, so that we will now have the capacity to react more effectively, with the main objective of saving lives. and we really must say enough of the tragedies we saw last year in portugal, where 100 people lost their lives, because we have had to recognise that when several member states are facing an emergency at the same time, the solidarity between countries that exists now is not enough. the european union's collective capacity has had to respond to 17 requests for assistance at the same time, but has been able to respond to only 10 and in some cases with delays. now, thanks to rescue, working together, we can prevent situations like this from ever happening again. i said the first goal is to save lives, but our goals are many because we want to prevent economic loss, environmental damage, protect our artistic heritage, biodiversity. that is our job, and it must always be stressed, it is done in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, because the responsibility remains with the member states at all levels. that is why we have stressed the importance of local and regional authorities in many places. let us never forget that the first responsibility for civil protection lies with the mayors themselves. civil protection is not just a response, it is also, and increasingly, a prevention, so training, a common language, this already exists and we saw it in the exercise that was recently carried out here in the european parliament. next week in my region, veneto, and in a neighbouring region, friuli venezia giulia, there will be european civil protection exercises and, as parliament, we have proposed something very good in this regard, an erasmus programme specifically devoted to civil protection. there are many points, the reduction of bureaucracy and many other things, but i will stop here, let the other colleagues have their say.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the recent disasters which have devastated europe, many of which are linked to climate change, it was desirable to amend the decision on a union civil protection mechanism. the mechanism has proved to be a useful tool for mobilising and coordinating the assistance provided by the participating states in response to the crisis, but experience has shown that voluntary offers of mutual assistance have not always been sufficient to ensure the availability of means, and i could cite as examples the cases of portugal and italy last summer, countries devastated by numerous fires. the review will address recurrent and emerging resource gaps, in particular by establishing a dedicated european response pool, and ensure the agility and effectiveness of the administrative procedures of the union mechanism in support of emergency operations. it goes without saying that the mechanism will have to receive adequate budgetary allocations to function and member states will have to take preventive action to maintain sufficient national resources to deal with disasters effectively. i congratulate mrs gardini, who has done a very good job.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very happy and a little excited because i think all the speeches have gone in the same direction. you are right, some of the details perhaps need to be explained better because there are concerns that really shouldn't exist, because this work has been done in that direction to address those concerns. i am sorry that mr eickhout is not here, because we have not, for example, broadened the scope of possible terrorist attacks at all, we are talking explicitly about the scope of the mechanism voted in 2013, so we nevertheless wanted to put forward a simple proposal so that it could be voted on quickly. i am sure that the future of european civil protection will go much further, because the world is changing, there are always new needs and, unfortunately, not only natural but also man-made disasters will continue to be a threat to the security of our citizens. sendai, well, we also mentioned it because we have to create ever more resilient territories and so prevention is a fundamental chapter that is also very much emphasized here. the commissioner has often said that we must also create new financial instruments, facilitate and bureaucratize those which already exist, precisely because we must first of all prevent. civil protection must be more and more prevention. where prevention has failed, we must be prepared to react. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, thank you all again, no country should be left to face any catastrophe alone, good job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just two days ago we were discussing in this house the third mobility package, which the commission believes will bring its legislative action in the transport sector to a conclusion, but how can we consider our work to be complete when, despite three mobility packages and numerous legislative acts aimed at preventing fraud, two thirds of the used car market continues to grow in full illegality, unabashed by our efforts to ensure transparency for consumers? until there is harmonisation of the national laws of the member states, all our efforts will be incomplete. how can we hope for the effectiveness of european regulations if each member state maintains sanction regimes which are completely contradictory to each other? why is the tampering with a odometer punishable by imprisonment in france, while it is only punishable by a fine of 220 euros in slovakia? not to mention even more unlikely national situations, where the same crime is not even considered a crime.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this most engaging and important debate. i have taken good note of all your comments. odometer fraud is indeed a major problem, and we clearly need even more effective solutions to fight it in the future, but please acknowledge all that we have done already up to now. i am sure that that will have a very positive effect on the market. please inform all of your voters of the activities that have been done. let me go through the major points again. we now have new roadworthiness rules which oblige inspectors to collect odometer data, and they have been in force for only 10 days. i hope everybody in europe knows that. we will assess the implementation, as required by the legislation, by 2020 and propose additional measures if we find that they are necessary. secondly, we have new type-approval rules that were set and adopted last year with new obligations for manufacturers to address the odometer fraud issue. the commission plans to review their application and then decide on future steps if necessary. thirdly, cross-border data exchange is the next step. as i said before, we will now use the budget allocated by parliament in pilot projects to prepare a proposal going in this direction. beyond legislation, awareness-raising is essential. member states must exchange experience and good practices, and this is what we promote in the commission’s roadworthiness committee, which pays special attention to automotive topics. so as you can see, there were four clear actions that we have taken just in the last few years. we will be very much directly engaged with you to take the next steps, but let’s see how far we get through the implementation of these four elements.
in writing. odometer fraud is a widespread phenomenon that seriously jeopardises road safety, distorts the proper functioning of the internal market and imposes additional undue costs on consumers, insurers, used car dealers, leasing companies and even manufacturers. the economic damage for the union as a whole is estimated at between eur 5.6 and eur 9.6 billion. in addition to the economic effects, there are also serious negative impacts on road safety. the problem of odometer fraud should be addressed by a multi-layered approach. obliging manufacturers to specifically protect odometers from tampering is a first step that will better safeguard all new passenger cars on the market. a solution based on a uniform european database would also be needed, which would collect all eu mileage records during periodic technical inspections and maintenance and inspection in workshops, via the eucaris system and a european blockchain network, allowing for cross-border exchange of information.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the european union has very few means and possibilities of intervening in the civil status laws of individual countries. one of these is the 'brussels ii' regulation, the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility. well, i think that to have eliminated and not to want to include within this jurisdiction, within the brussels bis regulation, unmarried couples or couples who have not contracted a marriage because they have chosen it or because it is not possible in their country to contract a marriage - i think of homosexual couples, same-sex couples - is an ethical idea of the state. we cannot afford to have a europe which legislates like an ethical state, we need a europe which protects its citizens and in particular, as you said, protects children and children in these couples. there is still too much discrimination on our continent, commissioner, and we must discuss and combat this discrimination. we often, always, talk about the rule of law in this house. we have spoken about it and we speak about it at every plenary session, and this is one of those occasions when europe can really do something. you said, commissioner - and i close with this - that it is not yet time to discuss this recognition. the commissioner knows that the right time to recognize a right is always yesterday, it is never tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me say thank you to the house again for your continued support for the commission’s proposal and for raising significant points about its contents. at this stage the commission does not have sufficient evidence to justify making a proposal to amend the provisions of the brussels iia regulation on matrimonial matters. however, we have ensured that all its provisions that aim at improving the protection of children will apply equally to all children, regardless of the situation of the family where they live. children are at the heart of this reform. the separation of their parents is difficult enough. they deserve proceedings that clarify their situation as quickly as possible and take their best interests into account. so we need to speed up cross-border cases, and we need these new rules quickly for the sake of children’s welfare. to be absolutely clear: i was among the initiators of the civil partnership law in estonia and, of course, i voted in favour of this law in estonia. but now our aim is to help our children as quickly as possible, because they are in a difficult situation and, as has already been said by members of the parliament and as i said in the very beginning, in order to help our children unanimity in the council is needed. knowing that it is quite hard to reach that unanimity in extending our proposal, why do we have to put our children in a very difficult situation? this is my question. however, we have to work with these issues. i fully agree with you: we have to respect same-sex marriages too.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are gathered here today to talk about the impact of delocalisation on workers and regions. it is clear that our policies are geared towards the creation of jobs in the european regions. the commission has presented an industrial policy strategy to help our industries to stay, or become, strong on innovation, digitisation and decarbonisation. some regions benefit from globalisation and demographic change but others are struggling with this industrial transition process. the need to strengthen the abilities of local communities to cope with and adapt to social or economic change was also emphasised in our renewed industrial policy strategy. it is at regional level that the effect of the industrial transformation is greatest. that is why our industrial policy aims at empowering regions to benefit from the opportunities of industrial transition. in a single market, companies are free to establish factories anywhere in the european union. freedom of establishment is a basic principle of the treaty and the commission cannot interfere in such investment or disinvestment decisions by private companies. when it comes to location, it is also the role of the regions to provide an attractive environment for investment and growth. however, we are, of course, very vigilant if relocation decisions involve public funds. we are aware of the high political sensitivity of the few cases in which public funds are used to move an economic activity to another member state, causing substantial job losses. that is why in the 2014—2020 period, we have strengthened the rules in the fields where the commission can act: state aid and the european union funds. we react immediately whenever we are alerted. the commission has no power to interfere in companies’ reorganisation plans. nevertheless, we urge companies to follow good practices on the anticipation and socially responsible management of restructuring. the european union state aid rules provide safeguards to prevent member states from using public money to incentivise the relocation of existing jobs from one european union country to another. in addition, the european union has several instruments to support workers’ employability in order to mitigate the adverse social consequences of restructuring, for example the european globalisation adjustment fund. there is a strict regulatory framework that imposes obligations on companies concerning the provision of information to, and consultation of, workers, in particular with regard to the opening of social dialogue in order to mitigate the consequences of reorganisation. even more importantly, cohesion policy support from the european social fund and the european regional development fund is available in all european union regions to mitigate its potential negative effects, and in the context of cohesion policy we have included additional safeguards to avoid those funds being used for delocalisation. i can assure you that, in the proposal for the new post—2020 regulations, we will include prevention of the use of funds to support delocalisation. cohesion policy support can also be used for industrial transition, training and skills development as well as other measures to mitigate negative effects. the commission has also launched pilot actions in order to work with a selected number of interested regions to master the challenges of industrial transition. one of these regions is the piedmont region, the home region of embraco. other examples are hauts-de-france and wallonia. you surely remember the caterpillar and other similar restructuring cases in these regions. we will support these regions with the aim of accelerating innovation uptake, removing investment barriers and facilitating reskilling and preparing for industrial and societal change.
i would like to make three very quick comments. i think that this house should apologise to the workers of embraco, because this debate on corporate social responsibility is not a matter of chance but of fact, and that is the risk of laying off and closing down a company that was working, making profits, whose owners wanted to relocate to another country in the european union just to make even more profits. while we have been debating in this parliament, because of the ppe which has not wanted to reach a resolution for months, the italian government has fortunately initiated procedures which today ensure the safety of these workers. but on the specific subject, two other very quick things need to be added. one: we have a europe that does a lot for industry, but it has no industrial policy of its own, and above all it fails to provide an industrial policy with corporate social responsibility. secondly, we must help these companies, of course, but first of all we must show solidarity, we must be close to them and we must care about the future of the workers, not of the multinationals who only want to make more profits.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in a globalised and interconnected world it is becoming increasingly easy for large companies to relocate to places where labour costs are lower. this is done both inside and outside europe, through agreements and treaties. and i'm in international trade, so i know that. but we must not oppose trade, we must be able to manage globalisation, we must support those who lose their jobs with a citizenship income, train them for new jobs and invest in those sectors which generate new jobs, obviously in the places where people live, and not force them to travel thousands of kilometres. our more advanced trading partners have been doing this for a long time, and this is what helps them make international trade fairer and more acceptable. because it is normal that trade creates winners and losers, but it is not normal to leave the losers to themselves, as is done here in europe. above all, however, it is necessary to prevent european countries from competing with each other in tax and economic matters, attracting firms from other countries to their territory. we're already in competition with the rest of the world, we don't need a fratricidal war.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this embraco affair gives us the opportunity to call the european commission to account for its heavy responsibilities, because it has not taken care - contrary to what it says in its answers to our questions - to prevent funds, particularly cohesion funds, from being used by multinationals to transfer their workforce from their registered offices. the embraco case is a case in point, and we must respect this great struggle waged by the workers, who are not really very well supported, because there is a history of disinterest on the part of the trade union forces, at least in italy. i must, however, commend the role of the ugl, which has supported so many throughout italy. it is a shame that in ten years 27 000 italian companies have had to move, with the mirage, for multinationals and also for other reasons, of finding in europe - because 90% have moved to europe - the most advantageous conditions, perhaps in terms of taxation. europe where was it, where was it watching? it's a big mistake because there was job theft, job theft! and it's all your fault.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must avoid discussing the mobility of capital and labour in the abstract, and that we must start with the concrete data. the embraco case, which has been mentioned, not by chance, several times in the discussion we are having, is one of these. it was not a matter of shifting an activity in the collective interest, but simply in the interest of the company to the detriment of the workers. for the time being it has been resolved and stabilized, thanks to a series of positive coincidences that have occurred. but the mobility of enterprises in europe is the result of social dumping and fiscal dumping. we must correct these distortions, we must ensure that the tax conditions for companies are the same everywhere and not that one country can say to a company: "come to me because i won't make you pay the taxes you owe". the same applies to work, to social security and the protection which must be given to working conditions and to wages. that is the job we have to do, we have to impose rules that allow everyone to face tomorrow without the anxieties of someone in a company who suddenly decides to go somewhere else. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question within the meaning of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i think it is very important to give uniformity to conditions which are: the rights of persons, which must be regarded as inalienable, irrespective of the country in which they work; material conditions, which must be uniform and which must correspond to their professional capacity and not to short-term market conditions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the environmental conditions, which are essential for those who work, but also for those who live in european countries. i consider them to be processes of upward uniformity, and the elimination of bureaucracy is not a hypothesis of lower uniformity, but if there were a will to simplify and to eliminate bureaucracy, we would have a much more productive and competitive system in the global market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the families of the workers who have been in distress and under threat of dismissal for days, and i would like to apologise for the delay in this parliament's approach to this debate. it has been said before: the commission should be held accountable for the fact that parliament voted in 2006 against relocations, for failing to prevent social and fiscal dumping in the european union, for failing to defend and build social and wage standards to protect labour. look, the embraco case is just one of many cases we should be discussing. we should be talking about a european union based on neoliberalism, on the free movement of capital and companies, but which does not defend the rights of workers, including the right of workers to remain in their own country. some people have said that we will never know the european union as it is if we do something about it. well, maybe that would be a good thing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the impact of relocation on workers and regions in europe, because there is a regulatory framework within the european union which continues to favour economic freedoms, in particular the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services and capital, to the detriment of the fundamental rights of its citizens. we are here to discuss this, thanks also to the extraordinary mobilization of workers, trade unions and political forces who reacted to the closure of the embraco plant in riva di chieri. a closure decided by the brazilian multinational solely for the purpose of reducing labour costs. the solutions cannot be national, the european union must promote an ambitious proposal for a law on the social responsibility of enterprises, and it must establish appropriate instruments to support workers who suffer the negative consequences of unfair decisions. europe must put social rights back at the heart of its project, and it must be strictly forbidden to use european resources to encourage relocations. a clear choice must be made in favour of work if european integration is to have a future.
in writing. embraco: turin company at risk of closure to relocate to slovakia. if you look at the meaning of the word delocalise (transfer of the production process, or some of its phases, to geographical areas or countries where there are competitive advantages, which generally consist in the lower cost of production factors and in particular of labour), you realize that it is exactly the opposite of what we want to implement in our country, through socioeconomic policies. given that there is already a large disparity in tax treatment between european countries, due to the different socioeconomic policies of individual member countries, and that, to exacerbate the situation of inequality, the european community itself is providing aid to those same states (in this case slovakia, which received about 20 billion from the eu in 2018) by increasing wage dumping, i ask that the european commission commits itself to binding the member states receiving the aid funds to invest them directly to eliminate these inequalities and not to increase unfair competition, starting from favorable wage and tax conditions. i am sorry to note that only one member of the democratic party was present at the debate in the chamber to defend italian workers.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this opportunity to discuss the use of instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) funds in turkey following the strategic dialogue on the mid—term review that was held on 20 march in the committee on foreign affairs. over the past years, our relationship with turkey has faced many challenges, especially with the continued backsliding on the rule of law, democracy and human rights, particularly in the aftermath of the attempted coup in july 2016. the analysis in the commission’s annual report on turkey shows that the country continues to move further away from europe. in the context of the mid—term review of ipa, we have proposed significantly to reduce ipa funding for turkey on the basis of objective criteria, in particular the country’s lack of progress towards the eu and its low absorption capacity. i thank honourable members for their support on this. we will reorient our assistance even more towards areas of higher priority – democracy and governance, the empowerment of civil society, the rule of law and fundamental rights. we look forward to the formal endorsement of this proposal by the member states in the ipa committee in july. in this current debate, it is important to emphasise that ipa funding remains a valuable instrument for the eu with which to underpin its relations with a breadth of stakeholders in turkey. turkey is a key partner and it is in our interest that this partner is stable and democratic. recent thematic evaluations have also confirmed the relevance of ipa for longer-term reforms, despite important challenges in turkey. ipa funds aim to improve turkey’s modernisation and development and to provide support for a wide range of crucial segments of turkish society and its development. we must use these funds in the most effective way. in its special report on turkey, the european court of auditors concluded that assistance to turkey is generally well designed and that projects deliver outputs. nevertheless, it has also been rightly pointed out that there is much room for improvement. we take these issues very seriously and have already acted to address many of the report’s recommendations. we are focusing more on conditionality in our approach. for example, in the area of the judiciary we have halted several projects with the council of judges and prosecutors due to serious concerns about the independence of that body. we have also taken steps to increase the share of funds managed directly by the commission. lastly, let me point to the fact that cooperation on home affairs and migration remains a top priority for both the eu and turkey. this includes support for the development of an integrated border-management framework in line with eu standards and with full respect for fundamental rights and international law. the objective here is to prevent and combat cross—border crime. this involves the provision of effective tools for modern border surveillance systems. let me reassure you that any equipment delivered for civilian purposes is used only for civilian activities and it is clearly defined and closely monitored. therefore, concerning the armoured (the word in german is gepanzert) vehicles, some of the excitement seems to stem from the fact that they are referred to in the press as military vehicles, and are sometimes even confused with armed vehicles, which they are absolutely not. the fact is that, for example, any eu officials visiting the syrian border drive around in armoured vehicles: so the turkish authorities can do so, and i think this is understandable. this false debate also casually overlooks the fact that some eu member states actually continue to sell arms to turkey.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is now the main beneficiary of pre-accession assistance funds, over 9 billion of which we are financing part of the facility for refugees, the child of the illegitimate agreement signed two years ago. this money would also be used to buy military and armored vehicles, surveillance equipment and ships, used to patrol those 900 kilometers of wall that divides it from syria: three and a half meters of concrete bars to stop thinking about the problem of immigration, violating human rights. it doesn 't end there . the european court of auditors considers that the funds are ineffective because of a lack of political will and an extremely limited use of conditionality. how long are we going to be fooled by an increasingly distant and authoritarian turkey, where internal repression and human rights violations are relentless? the commission must make a clear and precise reply, not the usual deafening and therefore conniving silence. otherwise we are sacrificing not only our values but also the courage of turkish civil society. business as usual makes us complicit.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last two multiannual financial frameworks, almost eur 10 billion of european citizens' money has ended up in the pockets of an authoritarian regime that can do whatever it wants with these funds. i believe that europe must give a strong and protective response to turkey and the erdoğan regime. if the european union imposes sanctions on russia, if it imposes sanctions on syria and if it proposes to link the disbursement of some funds to eastern european countries above all to the rule of law, then i believe that a deep reflection and concrete action on ipa funds to turkey should be taken. no more should a euro of the money of the european people go into the pockets of a regime that does not respect the rules and has not made any progress on its path towards europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to an investigation involving several newspapers, turkey is alleged to have used armoured vehicles financed by the european union to force refugees back into syrian territory. it's very serious. it was not enough to have a cynical agreement which trapped 14 000 people in inhuman conditions on the greek islands, but we are now providing military instruments which can be used against people. we know that the agreement stated that they should only be used for border control, but how can you, commissioner, control the actual use of these means? are you prepared to cut, to suspend these funds? and how can you enable us to monitor how european citizens' money is spent? this parliament is tired of seeing its prerogatives trampled upon, as happened to the agreement in open violation of the treaties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it should be clear to the commissioner that this parliament rejects the idea that pre-accession funds can continue to be provided. if the commissioner is not satisfied with the massacres in afrin, the massacres against the kurdish people, the constant repression of teachers and journalists, and the damage to refugees, primarily syrians, reported by ngos, perhaps he could recall what the court of auditors of the european union said about how erdoğan uses these funds. i think it's a shame, a shame, that the money we give to erdoğan, now more than 6 billion to stop the migration flows, is a real crime against humanity. and i would add that there has been talk of democratization: why has the european parliament not sent, why has erdoğan not invited observers from the european parliament to the next elections? i shall be going to turkey to observe the elections, but i shall be going without the possibility of this parliament's coverage. this is democratic turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, together with my colleague malin björk, of the report which has been adopted by this parliament on gender equality in the trade policy of the european union, i am fully aware and convinced of the importance of what we are discussing today. and it really hurts to hear in this hall, in 2018, that basic human rights are still being denied, women's human rights, and among them the right to sexual and reproductive health. i believe that there should be no need for the european parliament to defend women's self-determination any longer. unfortunately, that's still necessary, so i don't want to get out of it. i defend the self-determination of the italian women who demonstrated 40 years after the passing of law 194, i defend the self-determination of the irish women who won a historic referendum in ireland a few days ago, and i take this opportunity to congratulate them, the self-determination of the argentine women who are demonstrating for the legalization of abortion these days, and i am with them. self-determination all the time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no development strategy will be effective unless women and girls play a full central role in society. whether political, economic or social, gender equality, women's empowerment and self-determination are essential to achieving the goals and targets of sustainable development. this equality goes through areas that are closely related. first of all, the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls, and hence our strongest condemnation of all forms of gender-based violence. secondly, by promoting economic and social rights and the increased participation of women and girls in decision-making processes, such as electoral equality. finally, the change in institutional culture to ensure that the european union's commitments are respected more effectively. let us never forget that the principle of equality between women and men is a core value of the european union. we're also here to defend him.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very pleased to see the genuine commitment, joint contributions and collaboration in the implementation of our second gender action plan. so far, good progress has been made, but we cannot forget that changing social norms and gender power relations require long-term efforts and continuous high-level engagement. a lot of work still lies ahead of us, and the results of all our efforts will only be fully visible at a later stage. finally, let me recall that in less than a week we will have the european development days under the main topic of ‘women and girls at the forefront of sustainable development: protect, empower, invest’, and i hope many of you will be there, because putting women, girls and gender equality at the forefront of sustainable development is key for ensuring a brighter, more inclusive and more prosperous future, and we fully count on your support.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am happy to be here today to discuss your report on the european union youth strategy. only last week, the commission adopted its proposal for a renewed youth strategy, and you will be pleased to see that the key elements of the commission’s proposal correspond closely to the recommendations made in your report. let me first of all thank ms gardiazabal rubial and the other members of the committee on culture and education, but also the committee on employment and social affairs. we are grateful for your hard work on the report and your constructive recommendations. to prepare our proposal for the new youth strategy, the commission spent a full year listening to young people to better understand their views on europe. we held stakeholder consultations and carried out an in-depth evaluation of the current strategy. we also engaged in an open dialogue with you to make sure we could take your ideas into account. the commission proposal is therefore solidly based on stakeholder opinions and evidence. the commission proposes three main areas of action for our future cooperation in the field of youth. they are captured by the words ‘engage’, ‘connect’ and ‘empower’. first, ‘engage’ is about fostering young people’s participation in civic and democratic life. the biggest priority for me will be to reform the dialogue with young people. we want to make sure we make it more open and inclusive, less formal and rigid. the current format has achieved positive results. since 2010, we have reached over 250 000 young people. but we agree with you that we need to reach out to a broader range of young people, including at the local level, and that we have to focus more on those young people with fewer opportunities. young people who are struggling with disadvantages tend to be less active citizens and to have less trust in institutions. let us try to change that. second, the word ‘connect’ underlines our intention to bring together young people across the european union and beyond. the commission wants to foster volunteering, learning mobility, solidarity and intercultural understanding. for example, we want to build a policy framework for volunteering and solidarity activities, which will underpin the activities funded through the european solidarity corps. the commission also agrees with you on the need to clarify and reinforce the link between european union youth policy and the related european union spending programmes. indeed, we are proud that the commission proposal for the next multiannual financial framework places a strong focus on youth – the commission is proposing to more than double the budget of erasmus and the european solidarity corps. this is a clear sign. we are committed to investing in youth. we must be ambitious in this area: our young people deserve nothing less. we count on you to defend our proposals in the tough negotiations ahead. third, the word ‘empower’ is about supporting young people through a youth work agenda. the focus is on quality, innovation, digitalisation and recognition of youth work and non-formal learning. we must ensure that the youth sector is ready to fulfil its potential in times of change. but this is not all. we want to ensure that young people are heard when decisions are taken across policy areas. we have taken on board your recommendation to better coordinate the different youth-related initiatives in order to make our youth activities more visible and improve their outreach. the commission is therefore proposing to create the position of an eu youth coordinator inside the european commission. this person will be a contact and reference point for young people across the continent. this unique position will be an important signal of the importance we attach to the young generation and help us enhance coordination and coherence. we also want to be much more transparent about what the european union does for young people. to this end, we propose to track how much funding from the european union budget is devoted to youth, looking at a wide range of programmes. finally, we also want to introduce more flexibility. that is why the commission proposal suggests that member states set ‘national action plans’, translating european union-level youth priorities into their own plans. young people face quite different challenges in each member state. national action plans can be most helpful in fitting specific national contexts. these are just some highlights of the commission proposal for the new youth strategy. i am now looking forward to hearing your views and to discussing how we can best make this strategy a reality as of 2019. let us work together to make it as effective as possible, because we owe it to our young people.
i think we can say something today: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. they are asking for more opportunities, more social dialogue, more opportunities to participate in political decisions and more willingness to participate. but we also know that inequality has increased, poverty among young people has increased, and access to employment has also increased. i think that the fact that we have included in our report, for which i am very grateful to mrs eider, that we have given input which has been partly taken up, i recognise that in the new strategy, is the meaning of our action, which is to put young people more at the centre of the social pillar, more at the centre of the opportunities which will be offered in the various policies in a transversal way, to have a coordinating officer on youth policies, and also to provide for national plans to monitor progress. but i think there's something else we can offer. the european union is a great example of this, and i would like to thank you for including the e-card for students accompanying the erasmus experience... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we want a new generational pact immediately, one that will cancel the mortgage on the future of young people. their economic exclusion threatens social cohesion: today, one in three young people in europe is at risk of poverty. the european union has in recent years launched initiatives to combat youth unemployment, increase youth participation, promote inclusion, and promote volunteering, often in the face of the disinterest of many national governments. there are positive results, but they are still insufficient and still too uneven. then we need a more ambitious and more inclusive strategy with an adequate budget. education, culture, health, quality jobs, social protection systems, more accessible services, active citizenship, solidarity: the european union is the world's largest donor of aid to the poorest countries. these are our priorities for the new strategy, for the next european programmes and for the next budget. the national authorities must accelerate cooperation under the strategy to respond to these challenges, together with young people and their organisations, which it is necessary and urgent to involve permanently in decision-making processes at all levels. without a massive investment in the younger generations, europe will have no future.
in writing. this report analyses quite appropriately the effectiveness of the eu youth strategy in achieving its objectives. the report highlights critical issues such as the heterogeneity of results and the lack of systematic communication and reliable information on the implementation of the strategy, and makes recommendations to the commission and the member states. in particular, it calls for intensified efforts to increase the participation of young people at risk of discrimination, to facilitate the active participation of young people, including through new technology tools, to ensure greater representativeness by youth organisations, to develop and implement policies for functional, media and digital literacy, and to make greater efforts to ensure access to culture and public life for the most disadvantaged or disabled young people. finally, with regard to the youth guarantee, thanks to an amendment of ours, it has been made clear that the member states must have effective monitoring systems in place to combat abuse. it is therefore a report containing good indications which should be implemented promptly in order to respond more effectively to the problems and needs of the new generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the small and large revolutions that are already taking place outside this house are a testimony to a world that wants to change, that wants to move from an economic model based on the unbridled consumption of products to one based on services and cooperation, where relationships between people are the real source of value. the world of social innovation, of collaborative economies, of makers, is an incredible source of new ideas and solutions for our daily lives. i would like to thank mrs ries for her excellent report on the implementation of the ecodesign directive, and i hope that this directive will be extended to more and more product categories. because the correct design of products and services, throughout their life cycle, brings innumerable benefits in terms of both energy and material use - and this has been very well mentioned by my colleagues - and therefore directly also on the environment and the climate, but it also leads to incredible results in terms of employment and business opportunities. there is a study by the epa, the us environment agency, which is illuminating, which tells us that for every 10 000 tonnes of waste, one job is created in incineration, six jobs in landfills, 36 jobs in recycling centres and as many as 296 jobs in the reuse, recovery and repair sector. the question is: is the policy ready to give space and support to these new ideas, these new solutions? is policy, above all, ready to act for durability, repairability, upgradability and reusability, the fight against planned obsolescence? will this europe fully seize the opportunities to become a resilient and sustainable society? the signs are encouraging. i hope so, as an italian and a european.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, precarious employment is a scourge which exposes its victims to enormous socioeconomic vulnerability. and that is what this resolution says, which takes shape and substance from the many petitions sent by precarious workers, precarious workers in the schools, the health service, the public administration in general, but also in the private sector. it is an unmistakable fact that the number of unemployed in the european union has increased exponentially, and that this number has been aggravated by the obvious impact of austerity policies. it is also clear that there is a direct link between precarious working conditions and the absence of effective legislative measures to prevent and punish discrimination and abuse in the field of fixedterm contracts, as in the case of italy. the european commission bears direct responsibility for this because it has wasted time, accumulated delays and has therefore in fact allowed the repeated and abusive use of fixed-term contracts in violation of workers' rights. the european court of justice has for years stated that eu law provides that permanent employment contracts must be the common form of employment relationship and that fixed-term contracts are only applicable to the specific features of certain sectors and for certain occupations and activities. in italy, ladies and gentlemen, we have even reached the limiting point where a worker who has been given a favourable ruling by an employment court, which recognises him as a victim of the repeated and abusive use of fixed-term contracts, is dismissed. this is clearly unacceptable, and we must put stability, dignity and effective social protection measures back at the centre of work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens are paying today, and obviously at a very high price, for the last ten years of structural reforms which europe has asked us to carry out, and which have only led to an increase in precariousness, inequality and poverty. in italy, two and a half million workers have a fixed-term contract. in the last three years, the unemployed have grown by 8.5 percent because of the damage done by the jobs act and the good schools act. in the last year alone, one million employment contracts were created, but only 27 000 are permanent. the rest belong to the jungle of non-standard contracts, such as zero-hour contracts, which have even increased by 124.7%. these new forms of employment are also blurring the boundaries between employed and selfemployed, leading to a deterioration in the quality of work and an increase in sham selfemployment. today we have judgments certifying the absence of effective protection for those who are victims of abuse of fixed-term contracts, in violation of european legislation on fixed-term work. today we are in effect declaring the failure of the reforms implemented in our country at the request of europe, because, as we always say, it is really harmful to impose structural reforms without an ex ante assessment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in iran with regard to the numerous cases of detention of dual nationals, which have already been described by many of my colleagues, including specific cases, is very alarming indeed. the harsh conditions of these detentions and the treatment during interrogations are absolutely unacceptable. it is essential that the iranian authorities act urgently and in cooperation with the embassies of the member states of the european union and all the other european institutions in tehran to deal with all these cases, the cases of these detainees, with the aim of releasing them. it should be stressed that, in accordance with international law, it is necessary to ensure a defence in which the accused can choose his own lawyer, and above all to guarantee a fair and equitable trial. i also believe it is essential that the dialogue between the european union and iran on respect for human rights be pursued in all possible fora, and that crucial issues such as the death penalty and freedom of expression continue to be addressed. i therefore believe it is essential that the commitments made in the joint comprehensive plan of action be carried forward and respected, particularly in the light of the possible impact of international cooperation on the internal situation and the human rights situation in iran.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union is aware of a number of cases of dual nationals imprisoned in iran and regularly raises them with the iranian authorities. we call for their release on humanitarian grounds, we ask for appropriate legal counselling and for adequate medical care to be provided to those in need. given that primary responsibility for consular protection of european union citizens abroad lies with their member state of origin, european union action is always coordinated and done at the request of the member states and/or the respective families. in this vein, we will continue to closely follow the situation on the ground and use every opportunity to discuss the issue of dual nationals with the iranian authorities. when in april 2016 the european union negotiated a joint statement with iran on the future of our relations, the high representative / vice-president said very clearly that human rights had to be an integral part of our engagement. we have established a high-level dialogue with iran, which is the framework in which all issues are discussed, including human rights. i wish to underline that the european union has never refrained from raising human rights issues in our contacts with the iranian authorities. we have constantly called for the respect of human rights, both in public statements and in particular in private conversations. in 2016, during the european union-iran high-level dialogue, the european union had a first direct exchange with interlocutors from the iranian judiciary on human rights in more than 10 years. the second meeting took place in tehran in november 2017, and again, a number of issues were raised, including the death penalty, women’s rights and conditions in the iranian prisons. beyond our bilateral engagement, we have been active in multilateral for a, where we supported both the work of the un special rapporteur and the un resolution on the situation of human rights in iran. we have been carrying out démarches and issuing public statements whenever there were major violations in iran. we will continue to do so, and we will also continue our informal discussion on human rights to progressively address our concerns through this channel. we feel there is openness also on the iranian side to engage constructively, even if this means discussing difficult and potentially contentious matters.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 31 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i am convinced that despite the delicate moment, it is necessary to "normalize" our relations with iran, which means treating it, no more and no less, in the same way we behave with all other countries, without being subjected to external pressure or influence. we must not be afraid to confirm our support for the nuclear agreement and to note that some progress has been made in the area of human rights. at the same time, however, we cannot but condemn the repression of iranian citizens with dual nationality. the case of ahmadreza djalali, a swedish-iranian citizen and former researcher at novara university, who was arrested while attending seminars in iran, forced to sign a confession and sentenced to death on charges of espionage, is emblematic. djalali is just one of many who are suffering the same, unacceptable abuses. dear iranian friends, we ask you to help us help you: it is important that our relations remain strong in this time of uncertainty, but this cannot and must not come at the expense of the most basic respect for human rights. let djalali and all those who have been unjustly arrested be released and let us prepare, together, to face the difficult challenges that the near future will undoubtedly hold.
the agenda includes the debate on seven motions for resolutions on women's rights defenders in saudi arabia (2018/2712 ((rsp)).
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the driving ban for women and the desire to change the rules on male tutoring are just some of the promises that saudi king mohammed bin salman has made to the world's diplomatic players, including the european union. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. because while the young king is presenting to the world saudi arabia as the locomotive of progress in the middle east region, the human and civil rights situation is on tracks that lead in a completely different direction. the tutoring system regulates saudi society, preventing women from performing the simplest actions on their own, and gender-based violence is not a recognized crime. this is a picture which is in sharp contrast to the country, which is characterized by the promises of the sovereign, but also in contradiction to the role that this country plays as a member of the commission on the status of women at the united nations. for all this, i ask the saudi authorities to turn words into deeds, not to deceive public opinion. i call for the male tutorship system to be abolished so that saudi women can enjoy their rights, including sexual and reproductive rights. and finally, i appeal to the king: the sakharov prize laureate raif badawi, who is in prison for expressing his views, and all other human rights defenders who are in the same situation, should be released.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a context of continued persecution of human rights defenders, since 2013 the saudi authorities have continued to systematically arrest, target and convict civil society activists in an attempt to further restrict freedom of expression in the country. despite saudi arabia's promise of a series of reform attempts aimed at easing restrictions on women, this is nothing but smoke in the eyes, a sort of illusion of freedom coming from a government that acts on completely opposite principles and assumptions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the reforms are carried out in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the treaty. it is no wonder that it is the leading bloggers and activists who have been jailed for driving. it's not surprising in a country like saudi arabia. perhaps the fear is that women are starting to matter in one of the most misogynistic and backward states on the planet, and that would be a clear threat to power in saudi arabia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, women in saudi arabia are being mistreated, they are being discriminated against, they are being belittled in every aspect of their lives. it has been said that there is a system of segregation which wants women to be totally subject to the control of men, of a man, whether it be a father, a husband, a brother. it is therefore the task of this parliament to defend and promote the self-determination of women in every part of the world. we cannot therefore fail to condemn what is still happening in saudi arabia today, we cannot fail to call for the immediate release of the women activists who are fighting for the defence of these women, and for the immediate release, mr president, of the sakharov raif badawi prize. we cannot but ask that words finally be followed by deeds, and that a breakthrough finally be made which will mark an improvement in the conditions of these women.
i shall be very strict about the timing, because we have votes at noon and we have another debate, so i recommend that we respect the timing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was on 15 may that loujain al-hathloul, a women's rights activist, was brutally taken from her home and dragged to prison, having been arrested before for daring to drive. in complete isolation and with no contact with the outside world, she was unjustly accused of treason and conspiracy against the country: a serious charge that can lead to years in prison. like you, others on the same day. their only fault, fighting peacefully for their rights. where are the long-awaited promises of reform by the saudi crown prince, which were so loudly applauded by many? as long as this is saudi policy, as long as raif badawi is still in prison, the saudi prince's words will be nothing but words, empty and useless words of rhetoric that, frankly, we no longer accept.
member of the commission. – mr president, we started to follow, immediately after the information was made public, the situation and the developments in the specific case of the arrest of several human-right defenders, including a group of prominent women activists, in saudi arabia. the european union is both surprised and disappointed by these developments. these arrests take place as saudi arabia has embarked on a programme of socio-economic transformation and modernisation, and against the background of recent commitments by the saudi leadership to women’s empowerment. these activists have, for many years, been promoting women’s rights and women’s empowerment in line with the saudi leadership’s commitments under ‘vision 2030’. our delegation in riyadh was in contact with some of them because, as usual, we support on the ground the cause and the effort of people who try actively to improve human-rights standards in our partner countries. hence our surprise and disappointment, as these arrests are in direct contradiction with the messages we have heard – and have welcomed – from the saudi leadership in recent times. moreover, the arrests happened one month before the end of the female driving ban, expected to enter into effect on 24 june, a ban against which most of these women and men had campaigned. adding to our surprise was the severity of the accusations brought against these human-rights defenders and the defamatory campaign conducted against them in the media – before any legal action had been started and therefore against the principle of presumption of innocence. the european union immediately sought clarification from the authorities on the circumstances around the arrests and notably on the specific accusations brought. we are waiting for a reply from the authorities and we will persist in our diplomatic engagement in order to shed some light on these arrests.the situation is fluid and information is limited. we have noted with satisfaction the release of four of the women who had been arrested, including a 70-year-old, although we understand that new arrests of further human-rights defenders have taken place, after the first wave of arrests on 15 may – thus giving very mixed messages on the overall situation. recent reforms in saudi arabia have allowed women to attend sports events, apply for government jobs, and enjoy the country’s first public cinema screening in 35 years. we are encouraged by these reforms and we hope they will indicate a new pattern in the saudi commitments. the european union wants to encourage the authorities to maintain that trajectory, and to continue improving the saudi social fabric. setbacks such as those just witnessed are therefore deplorable. the european union stands ready to support and accompany modernisation efforts in saudi arabia, notably those that aim at strengthening human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is the message that the high representative / vice-president transmits relentlessly to the saudi authorities in all her contacts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 31 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on sudan, in particular the situation of noura hussein hammad (2018/2713 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sudanese constitution states that the state protects women from injustice and promotes gender equality. we call on the sudanese authorities to ensure that this principle is fully applied, and also in compliance with the provisions contained in the maputo protocol, including those of the cotonou agreements which bind us with the acp countries africa, the caribbean and the pacific so that all women can have their fundamental rights recognized, so that there are no more cases of marital rape, which is and remains a form of sexual and gender-based violence. we expect a strong signal from this country, reiterating our strongest opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances. sudan demonstrates to this house and the international community that rape and gender-based violence are against the principles laid down in the constitution itself. sudan has shown mercy by saving the life of a young woman, noura hussein hammad, whose life has already been destroyed by the abuse and violence she has suffered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, poor, young, but above all a woman. being in sudan is a bit like a sentence, a sentence to be considered as a slave of your father, your husband, your tribe. a chilling but normal condition for sudanese women and girls, often forced by their own parents to marry at the age of ten. noura was 16 when she had to marry abdulrahman, a husband-boss who, after raping her with the help of his brothers and cousin, would want to abuse her a second time. but that day, noura didn't succumb to her fear of her rapist husband, she reacted to protect her body, but more importantly her mind from the threat of yet another assault. today, however, the price noura has to pay for a legitimate defense that ends in the death of her oppressor is far too high: not only the loss of freedom, but the loss of life itself. we call on sudan to immediately annul the death sentence, taking into account the facts, to raise the age of marriage to 18 and to recognize sexual violence as a crime even within marriage. and we call on the european union to immediately suspend the funds that are being disbursed until this country complies with that minimum of human rights that should be part of any community on this planet.
member of the commission. – mr president, the human rights situation in sudan remains a continuing worry for the european union. the shrinking space for civil society organisations and restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly remain among the main areas of our concern. i personally raised this issue during my visit to sudan last october, but the case of noura hussein, who has been sentenced to death at the tender age of 19 after being forced into marriage at the age of 16 and raped, brings to the forefront many of the country’s complex and interrelated human rights problems, ranging from sexual violence, child and forced marriage to the continuing use of capital punishment. consequently, noura’s story has caused public outcry not only internationally but, more importantly, also within sudan. criminal justice systems ought to offer prevention and protection for women and girls against all forms of violence. this is sadly not the case in sudan. rape, including by habitual or cohabiting partners, should never be tolerated under any circumstances. moreover, sudan’s personal status law, allowing for child marriage without the consent of the intending spouses, needs urgent revision. as reiterated in the local statement issued by the eu on the case, the european union is opposed to the death penalty under all circumstances and in all cases, with no exception, and aims at its universal abolition. the eu is also concerned at the recent news of attempts by the state security apparatus to intimidate noura’s defence team, and it calls on sudan to allow the lawyers to work without fear of reprisals. the eu will continue to make use of the various means at our disposal to promote and protect girls’ and women’s human rights in sudan. this includes by enhancing the access of women and girls to good-quality education and healthcare services, raising awareness on girls’ and women’s rights among communities, in particular with a view to reducing harmful practices such as female genital mutilation (fgm), as well as supporting women’s economic empowerment through relevant training and micro-credit programmes. the eu also calls on the government to take the necessary steps to accelerate the ratification and the full, effective and non-discriminatory implementation of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) in order to advance the equal recognition, enjoyment and exercise of all the human rights of women. in this regard, the eu welcomes the sudanese government’s intention to ratify the convention, as announced by the minister of justice this week. i would like to assure you that the eu will continue closely to follow the case of noura and to raise it with the relevant authorities. we will also continue to team up with women’s human-rights defenders and women’s organisations to tackle the underlying causes leading to cases such as that of noura.
thank you, commissioner, for being with us for most of the morning. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 31 may 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, i would like to ask whether it is permissible, under the rules of procedure of the european parliament, to hear mr markus ferber say that the troika should invade rome and take over the ministry of finance. i would remind my colleague that the italian republic is founded on the constitution born of the resistance, and that if the european union were based on the same principles, and not on german ordo-liberalism, there would perhaps be less euroscepticism and certainly more social justice. i would ask the presidency to take note of these statements.
as chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i was very much puzzled to read the statements by my first vice-chairman, mr ferber, that the 'troika in rome einmarschieren und das finanzministerium übernehmen sollte'. i don't think a person in an institutional position can say such things. i find them unacceptable, so we wait... (applause from the chamber) we expect a formal apology and a retraction of these unacceptable statements, because otherwise it will be very difficult to cooperate with my vice-president in the coming days.
the reporter. madam president, i ask that our report, the one we have just voted on, be referred back to the envi committee to be the basis for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59 (4), rule 59a and rule 69f.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for this really interesting discussion. it was a really interesting debate. i can promise you that your interventions are carefully noted and i shall be conveying them to my dear colleagues, the responsible members and services of the commission. i am sure that we will have new opportunities to discuss this really interesting issue of the international day of the family in more detail, but also, in a broader manner, the role of the family in our societies. (applause)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 31 may 2018.
i would like to send a message of solidarity with guatemala at the beginning of this part-session. we've seen terrible images of the erupting volcano. the drama started last week and the volcano is still active. guatemalan authorities have announced that the death toll exceeds a hundred people. the number of missing persons is also very high. nearly two million people have been affected by the volcano, which is more than 10 percent of the country's total population. i know that copernicus' satellites are being used to aid in the rescues. humanitarian aid is also coming from the european union, but above all i want to express on behalf of the european parliament our sympathy and support for the people of guatemala at this very difficult time.
on 31 may the court of justice of the european union annulled two decisions of the bureau of the european parliament imposing a penalty on mr korwin-mikke for statements made during two plenary sessions. in the session of 7 june 2016, the honourable member referred to migrants as 'human garbage that does not want to work'. in the hearing of 1 march 2017, during the discussion on the gender pay gap, ms korwin-mikke argued 'that women should earn less than men because they are weaker, smaller and less intelligent'. i respect the decisions of the courts. however, i firmly believe it is my duty, always, to punish those who claim that women are inferior beings. (applause) i will never stop fighting for equality between women and men. i owe it to all the women who, at the cost of enormous sacrifices, have won their rights over the centuries and who, despite this, still remain victims of discrimination and violence in every country of the european union. i have asked parliament's legal service to consider the possibility of appealing the decision to the court of justice. we shall discuss this again this evening in the bureau. (applause) i owe it to my mother, who is no longer with us, but also to my wife, my daughter and all of you.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 7 june 2018, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: monday no changes are proposed. the eu group called for the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'georgian territories occupied ten years after the russian invasion' to be changed to 'separatist regions of georgia ten years after the war with russia'.
i am not going to go into the details of the amendments. the green group proposed adding as a second item to the agenda for the afternoon the statements by the council and the commission on 'the situation after the closure of mediterranean ports, humanitarian emergencies and solidarity in the european union'. the debate should end with a resolution to be voted on in july.
- what about lamberts?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to say on this subject. i would just like to say, in all humility, that for almost ten years we have been asking these banks to reformulate these rules and not to leave italy alone. it took a courageous gesture from a government which, as vice-president di maio pointed out, was concerned first and foremost with the situation and the health and humanitarian emergency. i would like to know which of your countries is doing the same in the mediterranean, and i thank spain for having, with a courageous gesture, dissolved this government in extremis, while the rest of europe was leaving us alone, as always! poor italy, you know. she 's changed . the party's over! the air has changed!
mr borghezio, if i understand correctly, were you expressing your position in favour of a debate on this subject?
on behalf of the enf group. more precisely, we are not opposed.
i would like to explain why i am in favour of a separate debate on the landing question. i am well aware that the root of italian decisions is a persistent lack of european solidarity, starting with the paralysis of the dublin iv negotiations, but international law sets out the following priorities: the first is the disembarkation of hundreds of migrants in suffering conditions. the un special envoy vincent cochetel calls on the italian government to disembark immediately and to respect an urgent humanitarian imperative and adds that wider issues concerning the division of responsibility in the union can be discussed later among member states. the priorities are at stake, and therefore a debate on the humanitarian crisis of migrants in italy is welcome.
mr verhofstadt, if i understand you correctly, you are asking for a line to be added to tomorrow's debate with the title 'title added to tomorrow's debate'. do you agree with the text? on the title of the debate? do you agree with the socialists? so we have to decide whether we do it tomorrow or wednesday. mr. lamberts, please.
i understand that. mr verhofstadt said that the debate should be held immediately and included in the debates tomorrow. you say that it is better to have a separate debate the day after tomorrow, because the subject is very important.
we have to vote and decide whether the debate will be held tomorrow or wednesday. i shall start with mr lamberts's proposal, which is also that of mrs rodrigues.
(applause from the centre and the right) we shall first vote on the proposal by mr lamberts and mr rodrigues. if you don't want the debate, vote against it. it's not a choice between one day and the next. we can vote against the lamberts-rodrigues proposal. the vote will then take place on the motion by mr verhofstadt. if both proposals are rejected, there will be no debate. so , what ? if the lamberts-rodrigues proposal is approved, it will be the day after tomorrow. if it is rejected and then mrs verhofstadt's amendment is adopted, it will be put to the vote tomorrow. if this one fails, it's not tomorrow or the next day. we shall now vote on the rodrigues-lamberts proposal. (parliament adopted the request) (the order of business is as follows) (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr marinescu for his commitment to this difficult dossier. we welcome the many positive aspects contained in the text, relating to the certification procedures for airworthiness requirements, flight conditions, safety, components, environmental requirements and airports. the provision of licences for pilots and air traffic controllers and of certificates for cabin crew with the corresponding health qualifications is also of paramount importance. for the first time we will have a european regulatory framework for drone rules, which is absolutely necessary and urgent. there is certainly some confusion, because there will be a considerable effort to make a single body that concentrates powers and competences perform. so we will monitor this, as we will also monitor carefully the issuing of the many implementing acts, which in such a delicate area as aviation safety can make a difference for good or for bad.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after two years of negotiations we finally have the opportunity to vote on this important regulation. safety in the field of aviation is of vital importance. keeping the airline blacklist up to date is not enough. the fact that they are prevented from flying over europe by wet lease is a real victory. the conditions of pilots and crew members on some low-cost airlines can also affect flight safety and i therefore believe it is important that these aspects are taken into account. finally, i welcome the new role of the agency and the possibility of the agency opening regional offices in third countries to provide support for certification activities and to work on technical aspects. this new international role will help to promote the european aviation industry and other european safety standards.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation under consideration fills a serious gap: the lack, to date, of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying data on carbon dioxide emissions and fuel consumption of heavy-duty vehicles registered and placed on the market in the european union. a common database containing all member states' monitoring data is missing. these data have not yet been certified, monitored or reported in an objective and comparable way, as is the case for cars and vans. this lack of information has firstly resulted in reduced competition among european heavy-duty vehicle manufacturers, with little incentive to innovate and implement energy-efficient technologies. it also made it impossible for transport operators, which are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, more than 500 000, to choose the most fuel-efficient vehicles and thus save on fuel costs, which represent one third of operating costs. in addition, this lack of information has been a drag on eu national action to reduce emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, given that 25% of co2 emissions from the road transport sector come from trucks, buses and coaches, which account for 5% of total emissions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the regulation will make available on the european environment agency's website, within two years, data on carbon dioxide emissions and consumption of all categories of newly built heavy-duty vehicles. the european commission's proposal was already a good starting point and the work of comparison with colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and with the bulgarian presidency of the council and the commission itself has enabled us to reach an even more ambitious compromise. in particular, we have improved the quantity and quality of information that will be made public, increasing transparency, for example, on engine performance. the only exceptions will be those justified by the need to protect sensitive private data and to ensure fair competition between manufacturers. we have also included in the compulsory checks the provision for administrative penalties, which was absent from the commission proposal. another of the qualifying points we have insisted on as a parliament is the inclusion of the result of road tests in the annual publication of the data to compare the vector data measured in the laboratory with the emissions under real driving conditions. we can now proceed to the setting of mandatory co2 emission standards, which already exist for cars and vans, including all heavy vehicles. i hope that this will happen in the not too distant future, on the basis of the proposal for a regulation which has already been rejected by the commission. thanks to this regulation, we will have cleaner air in our cities and our mayors will have green school buses. europe is movement. europe is moving towards a more competitive and low-carbon economy than it is today, with 94% of its transport sector still dependent on oil. today we are taking another step towards a new alliance between industry and the environment, an alliance capable of creating new and good jobs. we are taking a step towards a smarter development model that respects people's health and quality of life.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until yesterday we had no data on emissions and no data on fuel consumption. today, finally, we are introducing monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions and fuel consumption data from new heavy duty vehicles. i welcome this and congratulate the rapporteur on leading parliament in the negotiations. this regulation fills a gap, because finally the comparison of data obtained by the vector simulation software and collected in the public register that is being set up will allow small and mediumsized enterprises and public administrations to make informed purchasing choices, guiding them - hopefully - towards models that generate the greatest fuel savings and not only that, of course we are also talking about emissions. i am also particularly pleased with the agreement reached in the interinstitutional negotiations on the transparency and publicity of the data collected, especially as regards the performance of heavy-duty engines and test cycles. it was one of our amendments, which parliament did not support at first, but fortunately this aspect is covered in the final agreement. but let us not forget that the most important battle will be fought in the coming months, with the setting of co2 reduction targets for these vehicles, which alone are responsible for 30% of total road traffic emissions and are projected to grow by a worrying amount. i conclude by saying that we must listen to the virtuous companies and motorists who are already asking us today to cut emissions by at least 24% by 2025 and to push decisively towards the electrification of heavy vehicles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr damiano zoffoli, of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and mr nicola caputo, of the committee on transport and tourism, for their work on this important dossier. the transport sector contributes significantly to total emissions in the european union, with heavy duty vehicles playing a predominant role. the targets europe has set for reducing emissions are ambitious, but i believe they will be difficult to achieve if we are not able to monitor and compare data on heavy vehicles, as we already do for cars and light vehicles. if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport by 60% by 2050, we need to have a system for monitoring emissions and consumption for heavy duty vehicles too. this is proposed in the european strategy 2016 for low-emission mobility. finally, it will also be possible to obtain reliable data on fuel consumption and emissions for these vehicles. in fact, following the dieselgate scandal, there is an increasing need to collect and disseminate data on real driving emissions, rather than those calculated in the laboratory. the data collected will be managed in a database by the environment agency, but i am convinced that there is no need for a road transport agency, which could not only ensure that this information is publicly available, but also that sensitive and commercial data is protected. the most important thing, however, is the effect on the citizens, who we want to be able to breathe cleaner air, with undoubted health benefits, but there will also be a positive effect on the road hauliers, who will have savings on consumption.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate which confirms the importance to act on co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. together we can be proud of the result of our joint effort to agree on this new piece of legislation. but before i conclude, allow me to respond to some of your comments. on transparency of data: the agreed text strikes the right balance between the need for increased transparency in the heavy-duty vehicle market and the need to protect commercially sensitive information. this approached, agreed for the publication, does strike such a balance considering the high influence of this parameter to the fuel consumption performance and hence co2 emissions of vehicles. of course i am referring to the air-drag values. on in-service conformity tests, this provision has the objective of ensuring that consumers get what they pay for and that the cars that are produced are as clean as the ones that are tested. the commission had already included this provision in the context of the type approval reform, and the european parliament had strongly backed this position during trilogues. unfortunately, the final compromise for type approval did not manage to keep this provision. this is why we included it again in this legislation. hopefully this time we will succeed. on alternative fuels, the commission issued, in its second mobility package last november, a detailed action plan to accelerate the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure throughout the eu. this also includes fast charging points for electrical vehicles, and the commission dedicated eur 450 million of cofinancing in its november 2017 cef call to support these efforts. so the projects are now in the deployment phase. on diesel cars the commission sees a need for accelerating the uptake of zero and low-emission vehicles in an effort to improve air quality and lower co2 emissions, while following an approach of technological neutrality. while the proposal will speed up the market uptake of zero and low-emission vehicles, accelerating innovation and reaching economies of scale, the change in the fleet composition will be gradual. it is expected that at least 80% of new car fleets in 2030 will contain an internal combustion engine. so i do hope that additional innovation will be introduced, for use in combustion engines to qualify for at least low-emission vehicles. on imported vehicles: there is no doubt that all vehicles placed on the european market are subject to the same standards, either being manufactured here in europe or imported from third countries. finally, let me again stress the benefits of addressing hdv emissions, very quickly. first, transport operators, mainly smes, will save money at the pump. second, we will keep and create new jobs here in europe, up to 25 000 more jobs in 2025 are estimated. third, we will invest and innovate here in europe. fourth, we will use and import less oil. and fifth, we will fight against climate change and improve the air we breathe, in particular in eu cities. so, as a next step, the commission counts on the co-legislators to replicate the success of this file when negotiating the co2 emissions standards for lorries.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take a few minutes to thank everyone who has spoken. i think there is a broad consensus on the proposal for a regulation. i would like to thank commissioner cañete, with whom we have had a good meeting, we have discussed and found the right balance, the whole structure of dg clima, the bulgarian presidency and of course the shadow rapporteurs from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we've shown that it can be done quickly and well. it can be done, it can be done quickly and well. time is of the essence and, in a reasonable time, today's result seems satisfactory to me for all european citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to your colleagues, but above all thank you to the rapporteur for allowing us to work with serenity on such an important subject: the modernization of education. we believe that we have reached the necessary points, but they are necessary in the countries, in our countries, because we are countries and we are europe. i believe that this modernization, which looks with interest at language skills, looks with great interest at digital skills and media skills, considering that the school container is not the only place where people can be trained, and also looks at lifelong learning and lifelong learning, is at the heart of all our thinking. you know that we as the ecr group have tabled amendments and have co-signed many of them on a subject which is very dear to us: the right to vote. freedom and educational choice, the family -- that great resource that we may have forgotten for a while -- and the community, able to participate actively. it is clear that faced with the possibility of teachers who can train and propose themselves constantly, not in terms of being teachers and economic capacity, but in terms of active participation, they are central to the training and development of our community. that's why i believe that when we say that freedom and educational choice is a family responsibility, it means that it is a community responsibility. i am not talking about national communities, but today i am talking about the european community, which is perhaps the best way to avoid what we see every day and what we have seen especially in recent years. so, a great commitment from europe and this is a report - thank you to the rapporteur and all those who took part - important and forward looking.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for the excellent work they have done. the final text represents a good political compromise on a subject which is crucial for the future of our society, namely the modernization of education in europe, where the rate of functional illiteracy is still dramatically high. there are three main aspects of the recommendations to the commission and the member states which i would like to stress here. the first concerns the key role of public investment. without a quality and cutting-edge education and training system, there can be no real change, which is needed now more than ever to better meet the challenges posed by the globalised world, technological advances and economic and political crises. the fight against the unemployment of teachers, the pillars of the system, must go hand in hand with public investment. they must be guaranteed decent working conditions that no longer stifle their crucial role in supporting students from preprimary school to university and in ensuring that they become critical and aware citizens. the third aspect concerns the increase in media and functional literacy policies. this is an aspect which is not discussed enough and which is crucial. i am convinced that a common response is needed and a serious medium- and long-term plan is needed, and the text that has been adopted in this connection addresses the question appropriately and outlines good solutions. i would like to conclude by saying that the aspect of the work that makes me most proud is the recognition of the right to education as a fundamental human right, which must be guaranteed to everyone, especially those who are in difficult or disadvantaged situations, such as the disabled or people from difficult backgrounds. i would like to make it clear to everyone that no one should be left behind. no one really.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the congratulations already expressed on the excellent report by my colleague, mrs krystyna łybacka. the commission's own-initiative report is certainly one of the most important of this legislature in the subject it deals with. the things that have been said by my colleagues and the commissioner himself give me reason to say that. we know the changes that are taking place. it's about taking these changes not as problems, but as challenges, and tackling them with a really global approach, involving all of education policy. if we are to create a european education and training area, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, then universal education of high quality is indispensable. but this must also become a real political priority for the member states. it is also essential to provide strong financial support at all levels, i.e. to schools of all kinds and grades, both public and private non-profit, in the awareness that investing in education is not only and cannot be only an economic imperative, but that in an otherwise globalised world it is one of the essential factors for the full development of every person, in all its dimensions. it is therefore right, on the one hand, to reiterate the fundamental rights, the right of parents to freedom of choice in their choice of education, to guarantee all citizens of the union the acquisition of basic skills, including, of course, digital skills, and equal access to inclusive and quality education, also as a means of social uplift, and, on the other hand, to emphasise the so-called components of modernisation, which i shall briefly summarize: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's education system. there are a number of things to add. i would like to conclude by recalling the central role of the teacher, who must be both the guarantor and the cornerstone of the change in the education system. i think that what has already emerged today shows a strong will on the part of the whole parliament to go its own way and reach a conclusion as consensual as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this report which restores the word modernisation to its proper meaning. i come from a country, italy, where the word modernization associated with education has tasted like a nightmare for the last twenty years: letizia moratti's three "i's", not to mention matteo renzi's good school. modernization has meant the destruction of the public education system, it has meant the dequalification of teachers, it has meant cuts in public spending on school and school as education for exploitation. i think we need to talk about the modernization of education, precisely as sexuality education, as education of differences, and use a gender perspective in all teaching subjects. teachers must be put back at the centre of the school, as the people's initiative for schools act is doing. a free, secular, mass education system must be financed.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms nicolai, and the committee on fisheries for their report on this very important issue. providing a comprehensive overview of the state of play of recreational fisheries in the eu and drawing public attention to this topic is extremely useful and necessary. scientific advice increasingly suggests that recreational fisheries can have an important impact on the state of some stocks. this is, for instance, the case with cod in the baltic, sea bass in the atlantic, and eels. in some of these cases, recreational catches could actually be more important than commercial catches. the commission is monitoring this situation closely and proposes measures for recreational fisheries on a case—by—case basis when science advises that these are needed. to give you some examples: for eels, the eu regulation requires member states to make estimates of recreational fishing licenses and their catches. for western baltic cod and sea bass in the bay of biscay, bag limits currently apply to recreational fisheries. for the northern stock of sea bass, only the catch-and-release practice is allowed. let me mention here the pilot project proposed by parliament to reinforce the control schemes for recreational catches of sea bass in the atlantic. the study will evaluate existing control measures and tools, identify the strengths and weaknesses of available solutions, assess the costs and benefits of different options, explore good practices and propose recommendations or guidelines to improve control schemes. more generally, the control regulation requires member states to monitor recreational catches of stocks, subject to recovery plans, excluding fishing from shore. this implies the establishment of sampling plans and biannual reporting to the commission. this provision is intended to ensure the appropriate monitoring of recreational fisheries of depleted stocks. our proposal for the revision of the control regulation, adopted only two weeks ago, goes even further. it acknowledges that recreational fishing can have a significant impact on certain stocks and provides for specific tools allowing an effective control of recreational fisheries by the member states. for example, we are proposing that member states establish a registration or licensing system to monitor the number of natural and legal persons involved in recreational fisheries and also to collect data on catches from such fisheries through catch reporting or other appropriate data collection mechanisms. furthermore, for stocks where eu conservation measures apply to recreational fisheries, the commission proposes that member states ensure that all persons involved in recreational fisheries record and send catch declarations electronically to the competent authorities on a daily basis or after each fishing trip. to make this happen, we need solid databases, in particular for stock assessment purposes. the ices working group on recreational fisheries surveys highlighted that data from member states are still missing, in particular in the mediterranean. to remedy this, we have now made it compulsory for member states to provide such data and conduct validation pilot projects within two years of the entry into force of the new eu multiannual programme for data collection. this deadline of two years will expire on 31 december 2018. this is a big step forward, as the conservation of some marine biological resources might indeed require measures on recreational fisheries, and these cannot be properly shaped without reliable data. this being said, the one—size—fits—all approach cannot be applied regarding recreational fisheries. this is an issue that we need to look into on a case—by—case basis, stock by stock, also when preparing proposals for multiannual management plans. while the baltic map does not include provisions on recreational fisheries, both the western waters map and the map for demersal fisheries in the western mediterranean cover recreational fisheries for stocks, where these have an important impact. this shows that the commission is actively engaging in the discussion around the impact of recreational fisheries. we are open to your ideas and views to further address this issue with a view to ensuring the sustainability of stocks for future generations and the long—term viability of this segment of the sector. your report provides precious information and guidance in this respect. once again, thank you for your efforts and input.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy, 1.6 billion has been allocated for 183 water purification projects in the southern regions of italy. on 15 june i will meet commissioner enrico rolle to draw up a plan which will lead to a proposal in the shortest possible time to overcome the infringement procedures in italy. i believe that this parliament and the commission should also discuss better the pollution parameters between urban and industrial waste. the lack of an audit risks penalising the municipalities of the mezzogiorno, which are crushed by budgetary constraints that do not even allow the management of the ordinary. we cannot allow the failures of the institutions to fall on the shoulders of the european citizens. such an assumption would risk widening the gap with the more developed regions, without suggesting any solution to fill the gap. i shall be making a number of appeals to the european commission in the coming weeks to give the citizens the answers they are increasingly demanding.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 28 and 29 june 2018 (2018/2590(rsp)).
before i give the floor to vice-president timmermans, i would like to remind the council that the european parliament has already approved a dublin reform proposal months ago. after the outcome of the last justice and home affairs council, i think it is right to deal with and examine carefully the text adopted by one of the co-legislators, namely the european parliament. i have stressed at all council meetings the importance of dealing with the dublin question and the importance of examining as a basic text that of the european parliament, which combines both firmness and solidarity. i call on the council not to underestimate or ignore the serious proposal which has had a great deal of support in this house for a reform of dublin, which i believe has not been done by the member states to date.
mrs panayotova, i am addressing you as the representative of the council, of course, after having heard the views of all the political groups, and also in view of what is happening with the aquarius ship incident, with the differences between italy and malta, if the council had solved the problem of the dublin reform, we would not be facing all that is happening today. the selfishness of the states is likely to make the situation worse rather than better. that does not solve the problem of immigration, nor does it solve the problem of africa. as you know, the european parliament has also approved, in one of its latest resolutions, a text which insists on more investment in the next community budget for africa. the problem of immigration is the problem of problems. there's a big delay. i ask you, on behalf of the whole of parliament, to ensure that the next council is not just a council where the dublin and migration issues are formally discussed. half a billion european citizens need answers and those answers have not come and are not coming. we will continue to make our voices heard until the immigration issue is resolved, until the dublin reform problem is resolved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the forthcoming european council, my thoughts must turn to the situation in the mediterranean, where the idea of reforming the common european asylum system is being wrecked, where the idea of reforming the dublin regulation, which is profoundly unfair to cross-border countries, is being wrecked, where the idea of radically revising the european project and of demonstrating that the european union exists in the european union is being wrecked. we have cross-border countries, like italy, which are still left completely alone. the landings must take place in italy, the identification and registration must take place in italy. italy must take care of the first reception. the dublin regulation shall apply: italy shall be responsible for examining the application for international protection. what are the other countries doing? the other countries suspend schengen, the other countries reinstate internal border controls so that everyone in italy is shielded. so what's the most painful part of this whole debate? it is pointing fingers at each other, without understanding that if we are worried about feelings of hatred, if we are worried about the european union project being blown up, then we must show that the european union exists and that there is still much to be done. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i'm asking for a blue card. i believe that the rhetoric is endless in this house. we have now heard the representative of the italian government - those who are now in power in italy, those who voted against the reform of the dublin system in this house, those who last week with their minister salvini finally put the dublin reform to rest in the council - tell us that it is a problem of immigration in italy. mr president, i would ask mrs ferrara what the italian government's intentions are for next week. you buried dublin last week, you think you'll bring it back this week? shame on you!
answer to a blue-card question. i thank mr danti and i immediately return the shame to the author, because if i were you i would be very ashamed not to know what the european council's proposal was that further penalized italy and why the five star movement voted against the position instead of the european parliament. a compromise solution that did not see an automatic relocation of asylum seekers, but a filtered relocation, filtered by procedures to verify the security and the merits of the application. we want an automatic and compulsory relocation. so rest assured that we have our ideas very clear, it is probably you who are not clear and you have shown this with your years of government so far in italy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, minister salvini and the whole italian government should be memorialized for throwing a stone in the pond, for having finally provoked this debate and the invitation by our president - to which i join - for the council to finally take a decision and decide to deal seriously with the problem of immigration. a monument because it has awakened this absent, careless and even hypocritical europe, hypocritical because you are for welcome, but welcome to be given in the homes of italians, and the italians have regained their sovereignty with this government, which is neither racist nor xenophobic since it assists minors and pregnant women much better than that, that is, nothing, that you have done so far. so let us not do the usual paternalistic thing in the next council, but let us look at solutions to the decision-making process so that no country like italy is left behind in the immigration drama, looking for example at the proposal that has been made - and i am in favour of it - to create reception centres outside the borders of europe to ensure that those who deserve to be received are screened because they have the right to asylum and to reject economic immigration which is not in europe's interests and which perhaps only serves the big interests of your friends. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to dwell on the mediterranean because we are debating it tomorrow, but i would just like to say that i am a little surprised when i see so much enthusiasm in protecting the right to immigrate, which is a sacrosanct right, but a lot of reticence when someone would like to protect the primary right of every person to live in his own country and not to emigrate. so that's where i get my suspicions. that said, i really think that the council needs to give serious thought to how it is proceeding in so many respects. we in parliament do a lot of work and we manage to find syntheses, we manage to find solutions which often sink, indeed drown, in the discussions of a council which is stuck in the rigid positions of countries which, on the other hand, cannot find a synthesis. i see a lot of things that don't work. we've been working hard on the pnr here. but even if the pnr is updated, with the gaps in the various countries, it will be a blanket full of holes. we've been working to put something together that costs the taxpayer and that will be a blanket full of holes. the same applies to the interoperability of the various databases. there is no point in having so many databases if they do not talk to each other, and here too there is so much taxpayer money that perhaps is not put to good use. security is the first issue for citizens, but if we really want to combine it with our values, listen to what the president of the parliament tajani said earlier: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you also mentioned civil protection. we have worked at full speed, with a very busy agenda, as you know, to strengthen civil protection and to give our citizens security on this front too. it seems that the council is not yet ready for negotiation. once again, we're working and you're slowing down. you can't afford that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the un envoy cochetel: european solidarity should not be discussed when a ship of suffering migrants is arriving; the priority is to get them to the safest port immediately, not doing so is illegal. at the same time, we must recognize that italy remains the country that registers arrivals first and that no reform of this unjust rule is in sight. the blockade of ships is the poisonous fruit of the dublin iv blockade and uses migrants as hostages. if the european council seeks unanimity on dublin, it will confirm that there is rot in the union. to my government i would say: make the reform of parliament your own; it has its faults, yes, but it's the most advanced we can get. most of the council wants to kill her, watch out for allies like orban: he won't accept redistribution of quotas, he's no friend of the italian government.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i say to the council, and i say this with all my heart: if you are not completely unaware - and i say this to the commission - you have a duty at the june summit to give some concrete answers at least on immigration, make a decision. do you want to give answers - and parliament has made a firm stand on this point with the reform of the dublin summit - or do you want to wait for all the populist governments, such as italy, to get their act together, to campaign for elections on a permanent basis, without regard for any civilization, any values, and to take the lives of people in the mediterranean as hostages, as they are doing, or to take people 1,400 kilometres away? look at the map . how far is the ship from the port of valencia? is that possible? and whose responsibility is that? they, the ones who make this fake politics, these pyrrhic victories, but it's also yours. if you continue to ignore reality, if you do not respond to the calls we have made, to the parliamentary actions, to the political actions that the previous government and we italian parliamentarians have taken, you will succumb to this hardship, to those who use human beings as a pressure, i would say as human bullets, with a gun pointed at europe, the europe we believe in. we will not succumb to this cultural and social drift. but this europe must be set in motion and the council must do its part now, in june, and in the right direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear governments, you have had the dublin reform on the table for two years, and it is a shame that you have not yet reached agreement on internal solidarity. your selfishness holds the union hostage. on 28 june in the council, take the example of this parliament which, after lengthy negotiations, voted with a historic majority to abolish the first country of accession criterion and replace it with automatic relocation requiring all european countries to do their part. financial solidarity is not enough and we will not agree to negotiate the dossiers you want without changing dublin. your inertia has opened the door to a nationalist and fascist resurgence in our countries. president macron, chancellor merkel, if you do not want your europeanism to be only a facade, support our proposal to the council, the only truly european one. president orban, you cannot want only the benefits of being part of the union without ever sharing the responsibilities. and the italian government stops being a coward: the battle is fought in the council, not on the skin of the people at sea. it is time to give substance to solidarity. the time is running out and i remind you that you have all signed the treaties which imply the principle of solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem with the european union is that it is slow to take decisions. the member states must realise this and agree to vote by majority whenever possible and to use the bridge clause, i.e. the transition to majority voting in all matters where unanimity is now required. otherwise we will never be able to decide, and we need a europe which can decide. there are many themes. first of all, the new dublin regulation has been mentioned by almost all the members. secondly, we need to decide on own resources, which are not sufficient - the commission's proposal, which is also opposed, is not sufficient - and at a level appropriate to the union budget. we need a decision on a package of policies for the euro area and finally we would like to know, i am asking vice-president timmermans in particular, when and how we can complete the roadmap for the future of the union as fully as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a great modern thinker, antonio gramsci, in 1930 from prison, describing what was happening in italy and europe, wrote that when the old world dies and the new one is slow to appear, it is precisely in this chiaroscuro that monsters are born. and that is what is happening, and not by chance, on our old continent, and we are not paying enough attention to it. i am concerned about the blindness of the european ruling class, i am concerned about the indifference of european politics, i am concerned about the disarming normality of the council's action in the face of these extraordinary changes. mr president, the aquarius is merely the tip of the iceberg towards which the european titanic is heading. there is not much time to change course and failure to do so will make you historically responsible for this dangerous european drift.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new italian government has closed the ports and refused to allow the aquarius, a ship with 630 people on board, including pregnant women and children, to dock, and has thus been playing politics on the backs of the weak and the defenseless. i warmly thank spain and its new prime minister, pedro sánchez, for their gesture. but italy has been left alone for too long to deal with the flow of migration from the rest of the member states, with only good words. the increase in the funds for immigration in the next budget will also be of no use in these conditions. we are hearing more and more often that europe is to blame, that europe must do something, that europe has left the mediterranean countries alone, but we know very well that this is not the case. it is the member states who, for political reasons, are paralysing the europe of schuman, adenauer and de gasperi. this parliament has been voting on the dublin reform for months. the council must respond immediately and concretely, because in the meantime people are dying and populist forces are advancing.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have been listening very carefully to the debate on migration, and having dealt with this issue over the last four years, i try to formulate for myself why it has been impossible to find a solution so far at the european level. i think the answer lies in the concept of moral hazard. there is a lack of confidence between the member states that the other state will do what they agreed to do to find a solution. indeed, italy and greece for a very long time complained and said ‘you’re leaving us alone; we need to find a solution; dublin doesn’t work; we’re swamped; we’re overwhelmed by the numbers of refugees arriving’. and then for too long they got the answer ‘that’s dublin, deal with it. it’s your task’. and then of course, we arrived at a situation of waving through, and this led to a lot of suspicion in other member states: they’re not doing their job; they’re waving through refugees in large numbers. so there is no state that can claim to be completely innocent in the situation we have found ourselves now. i also believe there is some criticism possible if people in italy keep saying ‘we were left completely alone; we were completely abandoned’. yes, for a long time that was true, but i find it difficult to explain that when i go to germany. look at the numbers of refugees that were taken in in germany. look at the number of refugees that were taken in in sweden. an incredibly vast problem is now the integration of these refugees in many countries. as long as we keep refusing the idea that we have a collective problem that can only be tackled with collective solutions, we will not find a solution. as long as member states just stick to their own solution and say ‘we are the only ones who are right’ and as long as the rest of the union does not do what we do, we will not find a solution. and we will fail collectively. given the size of the migration challenge the world faces, not just europe, given the developments in africa, do you really think that building walls and fences and refusing to accept ships is going to bring a solution? will that stop the pressure? do you really think that if we do not stick together on this, individual member states will be able to reach agreements with the states of origin to take back their migrants if they do not have the right to asylum? do you really think that, individually, we can create a prospect for africa that will allow young africans to see a future in their own countries instead of feeling the need to come to europe? do you really think that if we take away a bit of the humanity of people on ships and say these are just migrants, that we will continue our policy on the basis of our values and human rights? don’t you agree that by denying other people’s humanity, we take away part of our own humanity? doesn’t that kill us morally if we continue like that? i am not saying everyone who wants to come to europe should be welcomed, but i am saying we need to put an end to the dying in the mediterranean. this can only be done if europe collectively devises stronger protection of our external borders; if we finally devise a common european asylum policy; if we finally make headway in having agreements with the countries of origin so that they take back the citizens; if we finally have a realistic plan of investment in africa so that africa develops in a way that makes people want to stay in africa; and if we finally come to terms with the fact that in a time of crisis, and one or two or three of our member states are overwhelmed, they should be able to count on the solidarity of all member states. the only way we will find a sustainable solution for the migration issue – which will not go away, whatever we do – is if we do all these things at the same time. according to your political preferences, you have a preference for one or other of the solutions, but none of you can close your eyes to the fact that you can only deal with it if all these solutions are part of our approach. and if we do not do this as europeans, who else will? member states will not be able to do it on their own, whatever their policies are. let me end on one point. we are at a risk, in this time of turbulence and huge challenges, of falling into the trap of entering into faustian deals. to handle the migration issue, perhaps we should not have as much of the rule of law or the respect for human rights as is good for us. please, please, stay away from that faustian deal, because you will lose on all scores. what is the price of unity of the european union? should the price of unity of the european union be ‘let’s not make a point of the rule of law and human rights just so we can have unity’? i can guarantee you if respect for the rule of law and human rights is no longer a quintessential element of our union, we will lose human rights, the rule of law and the european union. that is a price that is far too high to pay. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am here today to intervene on the state of play of the preparations for the european council and to listen to your proposals, ideas, comments and remarks. i will bring all of them to the attention of the president of the european council. i would like to thank the president of the european parliament, mr tajani, for his remarks with regard to the important input made by the european parliament in the discussion on the common european asylum system, in particular on the dublin regulation. i will bring his message to the attention of president tusk. you will also have heard that president tajani will have the opportunity to express the views of the european parliament to the heads of state and government at the opening of the european council. tomorrow, we will have a further opportunity to discuss the humanitarian emergencies in the mediterranean and solidarity in the european union. all of you underlined that reform of the asylum system needs to strike the right balance between responsibility and solidarity. i can assure you that the presidency also shares your sense of urgency. i would like to share with you that the bulgarian presidency has taken as its point of departure not only the conclusions of the european council of october 2017, which tasked us with seeking consensus and with looking for ways to keep the right balance between responsibility and solidarity in order to ensure resilience to future crises, but also the results of the negotiations under the previous presidencies, which called for a comprehensive approach to the whole area of asylum reform. based on this, we have built into the dublin regulation a new approach and a new crisis mechanism for managing the migration and asylum systems in the union when under pressure. it tries to strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity by including clear criteria for determining the responsibility for asylum applicants which don’t shift or seize easily. the amended rules make the procedure more efficient so that pull factors and secondary movements are effectively prevented. we believe that the text of the dublin regulation, resulting from the discussions led by our presidency in the last five months, offers a good and fair basis for striking the requested balance between responsibility and solidarity. the process is now being led by the president of the european council, and it will be up to him and the leaders to look for further compromises that will help reach a consensus in view of the meeting of the heads of state and government at the end of june. i am confident that the council will make every effort to find a solution and an agreement on a mandate for negotiations with the parliament, as we all agree that dublin iii needs to be revised. in terms of the trade questions, i would like to say that the european union is sending a strong message on its ambition for an open, rule-based trading system, and all trade and external relations are on the agenda. but i cannot prejudge the outcome of the leaders’ discussion. in terms of the eurozone and the completion of the banking union, we also cannot prejudge what the leaders will decide at the june euro summit, but i would like to say that the presidency worked hard so that the council could finally agree on a general approach on the banking package last month. the council certainly looks forward to working with the parliament to bring this file to implementation, hopefully still in the coming months. progress on the banking package gives me reason to be optimistic that the leaders can, later this month, reach concrete results around the issue of the common backstop to the single resolution fund, likely in the context of the broader and not yet finalised work on the european stability mechanism. progress on the european deposit insurance scheme will take more time, but it has not been ruled out that the political discussions could still start in the coming months. in terms of brexit, i would like to say that unity among our institutions is paramount, and we value the contributions that the european parliament is making through its resolutions. we expect this to continue until the end of the negotiations. we attach the utmost importance to safeguarding the rights of european union citizens in the united kingdom and vice versa, and to those citizens being able to effectively enforce their rights. the uk has given credible guarantees to this effect, as now translated in the text of the withdrawal agreement. it remains to ensure that this is implemented in a faithful and enforceable way. there are actually many other important issues on the table for the leaders in june, and it would be really naive to expect that they can all be solved easily and rapidly. some will require further time and effort, but it’s important to continue to build common ground. in accordance with well—established practice, president tusk will be in plenary on 3 july 2018 for an open debate with you on the progress achieved on those topics, for, in the face of global turbulence, we should make sure not only that we remain united in dealing with the immediate consequences of instability, but that we – the three institutions together – also continue to work to shape the course of the years ahead in the interests of our citizens.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the economic and monetary union package, tabled by mr roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (000047/2018 b8-0027/2018) (2018/2724(rsp)).
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place at a crucial juncture for the future of europe and the euro area. we acknowledge that the commission has put on the table a wide range of proposals which outline the pillars of a more complete economic and monetary union and which are better able to generate growth, employment, cohesion and resilience to shocks. we note, however, that some of these proposals define more as an embryo of the instruments we need than as a complete implementation and that criticisms remain. the most important proposal is undoubtedly the introduction of a macroeconomic stabilisation instrument, through an investment protection fund, during the adverse phases of the cycle. this is a crucial function because the absorption of asymmetric shocks cannot be effectively carried out by monetary policy or national budgets. if we had had this tool during the crisis, we probably would have avoided the second recession and all its economic, social and political consequences. we would point out to those who speak of moral hazard that, on the contrary, this instrument would provide an incentive for responsible budgetary policies and the correction of macroeconomic imbalances. it is therefore good that there is a proposal, even if it seems insufficient in terms of size, and an unemployment benefit would be a more effective and more transparent automatic stabilizer. the reform support programme is also in line with the recommendations of this parliament. it is important here that the concept of structural reforms be adapted to the real challenges of today's world, which do not require a devaluation of labour and price competitiveness, but a capacity for innovation and development that is also based on a cohesive society. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european stability mechanism to include the backstop for the bank resolution fund. i would like to express the frustration of this parliament at the apparent intention of the member states not to follow the commission's proposal to integrate the fund into the legal framework of the union. i would like to make it clear once and for all that the justification for this choice, namely that otherwise the control powers of the national parliaments would be lost, is not the truth, it is one. the commission's proposal would not change anything in this respect. as has been said many times, the european parliament would not use its right of consent to alter the institutional balance of a body which uses the resources of the member states. finally, i would advise some member states to avoid formulating mechanisms for the restructuring of sovereign debts which would not only be counterproductive to financial stability but would also deprive the necessary unanimity for the reform of the esm. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is not a proposal for a regulation on the european social fund. the commission's package also includes the integration of article 3 of the fiscal compact into european legislation. i must say that the commission has missed an opportunity. we need to simplify and improve our budgetary rules and that would require, firstly, a different treatment of investment expenditure and the avoidance of pro-cyclical mechanisms. it is clear that the proposal put forward on the fiscal compact will not go far and that there is a long way to go to bring our budgetary rules up to date. finally, it is good to reiterate to everyone, including this parliament, that without a mechanism to ensure the same level of protection for deposits, not only banking union but monetary union itself is incomplete. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, parliament will try to improve the commission's proposals and to ensure consistency between them and the mff. we hope that a minimalist approach will not prevail among the member states, which would risk preventing us from making full use of the decisive window of opportunity which this latest glimpse of legislation represents.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for this timely oral question on the deepening of our economic and monetary union. democratic accountability is one of the key principles on which this work is based, and i am happy to be here to respond and to hear your views. a well—functioning emu is at the core of eu integration. our economic and monetary union is more resilient now than it was before the crisis, but the work is not yet complete. a more integrated and performing euro area is needed to bring increased stability and prosperity to all europeans. reconciling very different views on these matters is sometimes difficult, but we are making some progress. the general approach on the 2016 banking package at the may ecofin is a major milestone that lays the basis for further progress on the banking union, including on the risk-sharing side. we hope that at the june summit it will be possible to take the concrete decisions which are expected, notably regarding the completion of the banking union and further development of the european stability mechanism. we would like to see agreement on key principles and clear milestones for future work. coming more specifically to mr gualtieri’s questions on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ): with regard to the integration of the esm into the eu legal framework, regrettably the council has not yet started legislative negotiations on the commission’s proposal, as several member states are not in favour of anchoring the esm in eu law. however, there is general support for the goal of converting the esm into the european monetary fund. discussions on related issues, such as the role of the esm as a backstop for a single resolution fund or the new esm instruments, are taking place in an intergovernmental format. the commission’s position is that integration of the esm into the eu legal framework is important to allow full accountability and democratic and judicial oversight of esm activities, to promote the interests of the whole union and to ensure swift and timely esm actions under the well—defined framework. the commission also considers that any reforms of the esm should not undermine the institutional prerogatives set out in the treaties, in particular when it comes to fiscal and economic surveillance. we also remain convinced that the incorporation of esm into the union framework can be done by means of article 352 of the treaty. we also maintain that article 126(14) is an appropriate legal basis for the directive transposing into union law the key provisions as set out in the fiscal compact. this legal basis has also been used in the past to introduce comparable fiscal rules and obligations. as regards the involvement of the european parliament, let me recall that we put the community method at the centre of the emu package precisely to increase transparency and accountability. the community method would increase the european parliament’s and the national parliaments’ oversight of eu economic governance. the commission attaches great importance to the views of the european parliament. in preparing our proposals we have taken into consideration the recent own—initiative reports on the budgetary capacity of the eurozone; the böge-berès report on the possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set up of the european union; the verhofstadt report; and, on improving the functioning of the european union, building on the potential of the lisbon treaty, the brok-bresso report. we look forward to the input from the european parliament in a formal legislative process and remain fully available to hold regular exchanges of views and debate on these topics. a first exchange of views took place in the econ committee on 27 march with commissioner moscovici and myself. finally, let me say a few words on the two emu-related proposals, which we adopted on 31 may in the context of the next multiannual financial framework. the european investment stabilisation function will help member states to absorb large asymmetric shocks by helping to protect public investment levels. it will work through a provision of loans of up to eur 30 billion, guaranteed by the eu budget, and grants to cover the related interest costs. to receive this support, member states will have to comply with strict eligibility criteria based on sound fiscal and macroeconomic policies. the reform support programme will provide financial and technical support to the structural reforms. a budget of eur 25 billion will be divided among three instruments: a reform delivery tool providing financial support for agreed reform packages (eur 22 billion), a technical support instrument continuing the successful experience with the current structural reform support programme (eur 840 million), and a convergence facility to offer dedicated financial and technical support to those non-euro-area member states that take demonstrable steps towards adopting the euro (eur 2.16 billion). the package will complement other eu programmes and funds in support of jobs and growth, notably the structural and cohesion funds and the new invest eu fund. an important theme of our mff proposal is a stronger link between the eu budget and the european semester, which is a framework for economic policy coordination. it is now time to decide and to live up to our commitments to reform the emu. our end goal is to achieve better living and social standards for all europeans. that is what matters in the end. i count on your support in this process.
i must inform you that at 12.30 p.m. we are voting, so it is not possible to take any notice of the 'catch the eye' or use the blue cards in this debate because we have a very long list of speakers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, almost 20 years have passed since the introduction of the single currency and we have not yet created the mechanisms for real sharing and mutual support between the member states in the event of a crisis. the solution presented in recent years has been the devaluation of wages and rights in southern europe, punishing italian, greek, spanish, portuguese and french citizens with often harmful and unfair reforms, while the current account surplus in germany continues to violate the six pack rules unabated, and i turn to commissioner dombrovskis on this. the stability and sustainability of the euro area are linked to the creation of an optimal currency area. we therefore need instruments such as eurobonds and tax transfers, not fake solidarity mechanisms sponsored by germany on the model of the troika. all the leaders of the eurozone must choose between following the german ideological imposition and leading the eurozone to collapse in the next economic crisis that will arise or equip themselves with real and effective european instruments.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that when we talk about the eurozone we must start from two elements. the first fundamental element is an analysis and reduction of the macroeconomic imbalances and asymmetries which have been caused by the insane policies of recent years and which are destroying europe. the second point is a serious reflection on the change in the socioeconomic model on which the eurozone is based today. it is a crazy model, based exclusively on export and reducing domestic costs, and it is a model that is creating destruction and that is too dependent on decisions of foreign countries, as the tariff war is demonstrating at this moment. italy will not sink because of the folly of following the wrong macroeconomic tool. italy will reject any reform proposal which does not seek to reduce these imbalances. no to the european monetary fund. the italian citizens will no longer put a euro in and send a euro to brussels to receive it back in time of need with imposed conditionalities. the last point i want to make is to stop with the false narrative that today someone in europe is paying for italy. italy has always given much more than it has received from brussels since it joined the european institutions. we will no longer accept moralism from those who today try to lecture us without having in mind the data that is there for everyone to look at. italy will reject any conditionality attached to new funds linked to the euro area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the commissioner for quoting the report he has made with mr brok, but we would like to understand what is the point of the democratic reform of the euro area, which is absolutely necessary. we welcome the quote, but where is the responsibility that parliament should have? parliament has the power of codecision on all matters concerning the euro area. it is useless to say that the european parliament is the parliament of the euro, if it does not have the powers to do so. i would remind those who have mentioned germany's trade surplus that italy also has a trade surplus, so it is useless to try to use these arguments. the real arguments i think we should use are those of why european citizens are increasingly wary of the single currency. i think it is because the single currency is essentially presented as a cage, and it should not be a cage, it should create opportunities, especially for young europeans. we certainly need a euro-zone budget, but we also need a budget that helps young europeans to be strong and competitive in a world where the european union increasingly needs to be competitive. so not so much to do austerity-type reforms, but to do reforms that really give our citizens the opportunity to counter strongly the difficult competitive situation that europe is facing today in relation to the rest of the world.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, as today’s discussion on deepening of economic and monetary union showed once again, we will only be able to make progress if we pursue a balanced approach: an approach where solidarity and responsibility, risk-sharing and risk reduction advance hand—in—hand. this is one of the guiding principles which we have been pursuing in this work. we had a lot of discussions on deepening the emu during this mandate, starting with the five presidents’ report and with reflection papers; we put forward a package of proposals in december last year, we put forward further proposals this may, and we think it is now time to move from discussions to decisions. therefore, we see the june summit as a critical milestone, and i am glad that i also heard a number of members of the european parliament call for action and concrete decisions. it is important to strengthen democratic accountability, to improve the resilience of the euro area, to restart the process of convergence, and at the end of the day to achieve higher living standards for all europeans. the commission counts on your support for driving this process of deepening the emu, and also the various dossiers still open during this mandate.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
thank you, colleague. we also discussed this yesterday in the bureau and i assure you that there will be a full commitment from all members to resolve this matter, as we hope, by consensus. another point of order from mr flack.
there was a call from mr. coburn, too. i am trying to be tolerant, but please do not abuse my tolerance by allowing me to speak on the point of order.
let us proceed with the votes, we have had too many references to the rules of procedure. article 184a is clear, many have spoken without even mentioning the article in the rules of procedure. please proceed, thank you.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
i put the rapporteur's proposal to the vote. the matter shall be referred to the committee responsible for opening the interinstitutional negotiations.
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending explanations of vote)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recreational fishermen contribute some eur 10.5 billion to the economy. the impact of this type of fishing is very important from an economic, social and environmental point of view. for this reason we have asked the commission to assess the role of recreational fisheries in the future common fisheries policy, including multiannual plans, so that both commercial and recreational fisheries can be managed in a balanced, fair and sustainable way. at the same time, there is a problem of a lack, or in some cases a complete absence, of available and up-to-date data. however, it should be noted that the emff also provides funding for the collection of data on recreational fisheries. we have therefore asked the commission to extend the future scope of the emff to provide financial support for research and data analysis and thus to finance monitoring projects for the species most vulnerable to recreational fishing. we also urged the commission to set up a data repository available to researchers in order to monitor and assess the state of fish stocks on a continuous basis. in this case too, funding from the emff could be used. finally, we have tackled the problem of the definition of recreational fishing, an important definition, so that the activity is different from illegal, unreported and unregulated. this is a crucial point, because only if the interests of commercial and recreational fishermen are properly defined and regulated will it be possible to protect the environment and stocks, because there must be no conflict between the two types of fishing but cooperation in order to protect resources. all these requests were accepted by the rapporteur and we therefore fully supported the report.
thank you, mr polchak. to clarify, under rule 184a, references to the rules of procedure are possible at any time and always take precedence over any other type of motion and any other type of request for intervention. clearly there are some colleagues who sometimes push the rules a little too far and intervene on grounds of the rules which are not strictly related to a breach of a procedural rule. i try to be balanced and, as you have seen, when i saw that there was an excess of speeches, i had them postponed precisely so as not to disturb the voting procedure. let's move on to the demands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a very topical issue, especially in our european union. the 6.3 million young people between the ages of 14 and 25 who drop out of school represent a permanent loss for the generations that follow, especially in terms of competitiveness and integration. i believe that we must push for this by asking the member states for additional fixed appropriations, especially to ensure that school education can compete with the european union's global competition, which is now being made for large geographical areas, especially for technological development and for development which also sees the possibility of being multilingual. i believe that this is a gap which in some parts of europe needs to be filled by an accelerated march. then there is another aspect that must be emphasized: the rise of bullying in school settings that must be fought with strength, with determination and with approaches that allow children to avoid this kind of trend that is increasingly present. i believe that these are the areas in which it is worth continuing to invest. the report goes in that direction, and i voted for it with great conviction.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, blue growth places aquaculture among the sectors with the greatest potential for sustainable jobs and growth. however, the eu aquaculture industry is in a recession and, as the sector directly employs some 85 000 people in europe, mainly small and mediumsized enterprises and micro enterprises, this decline also has important repercussions on the european and italian labour market. in our country alone there are about 800 plants producing 140 000 tonnes of fresh products a year, or about 40% of national fish production. despite these figures, the sector still suffers from a number of problems, first and foremost the lack of financial support within the emff, about 15%, and the lack of transparency on concessions, which often leads to non-application of environmental rules. in addition, information on the use of vaccines and antibiotics in aquaculture should be provided, taking into account the possible risks to human health and also to the ecosystem and bearing in mind the issue of antimicrobial and antibiotic resistance throughout the chain. finally, fish feed must be sourced sustainably and must not compromise the objectives of the maximum sustainable yield of the common fisheries policy, possibly by increasing the use of seaweed and other algae. all these requests were accepted by my colleague and we therefore supported her work.
before closing the sitting, i would like to thank the interpreters again for their very important work, today as always, and to renew my commitment and that of the other members of the bureau to a positive resolution of the current impasse in the negotiations. i am sure that i and my colleagues will be fully committed and fully prepared to find a solution which we hope will be fully consensual.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, you are looked at by the enemy, but you are looked at a hundred times by your friend. this aphorism fits in perfectly with the complicated situation that has arisen as a result of the american decision to withdraw unilaterally from the iran nuclear agreement. this has led the commission to extend the mandate of the eib to iran to support our businesses and to revamp the so-called blockade statute, which prohibits european companies from complying with us extraterritorial sanctions. this chess game is as big a problem as it is complex. despite the fact that the union and its member states have repeatedly stated our support for the agreement, the economic incentives for iran, which has threatened to withdraw, would be lost if secondary sanctions were to be confirmed. i believe that the us decision to unilaterally withdraw from the agreement is a historic mistake and i firmly believe that it is our duty to do everything possible to safeguard it, even though the instruments at our disposal may not yet be sufficient for the difficult task. i want to make one final appeal to president trump: we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to work together and, starting from the current basis, which is the agreement itself, an agreement which is working, we are going to start negotiations to extend it, to meet your concerns. but as a gesture of good faith, the united states should at least refrain from applying secondary sanctions to european companies. if we fail, we will set a very dangerous precedent, not only for further destabilization and escalation in the region, but because it will become clear that the united states first and foremost and the west as a whole are no longer reliable partners in keeping their word. it's about our security, as you said, and not just our trade. i would like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased that he has taken this opportunity to speak. it is essential that there be no divisions between us on this issue, and to our american allies i say: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. as an old persian proverb says, "if the cat and the mouse get along, the druggist is ruined".
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that in the face of the objective reality, that is to say, whether we like it or not, that the nuclear agreement with iran is hanging by a thread, europe's response appears, as it were, opaque. there was the letter signed by france, germany, great britain and mrs mogherini on behalf of the european union, which in effect was a plea to the united states to exempt european companies from the consequences of sanctions. i have also heard this concept of american extraterritoriality rightly and controversially spoken of and insisted upon in this house. but when has it ever been thwarted before? and when, in the course of the many occasions on which we have commented and generally praised this agreement, has the scenario been foreseen - there must always be a plan b - that suddenly this agreement could be nullified? and what would the result be for our enterprises? it is said that small and medium-sized enterprises will be protected, but the ones who are going to face the big work and the big consequences in a country like iran that is not exactly peaceful, are the big enterprises and they are all running away. what is not clearly stated in this debate by mrs mogherini is that they are all fleeing, they are all leaving, the car companies, the oil companies, creating a very dangerous scenario for iran, above all, and therefore for the geopolitical and also security consequences that are very dangerous for the whole world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thanks to the nuclear agreement and the end of the embargo, iran has opened up to the world and many italian and european companies have resumed trading with this country, investing billions of euros in iran to create infrastructure and services. through trade we can improve the situation of the iranian people and create new opportunities for employment and development for our enterprises, not only the large ones as at the beginning, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises a market opens up that is definitely interesting given the size but also simply by referring to what was already quite relevant for our companies before the embargo period. it is clear that the sanctions decided today by the united states will hamper these projects and, according to the american approach, any company that trades with iran risks losing access to the american market and the ability to use the dollar as a currency for trade, in practice the loss of a vital market and credit paralysis. it is clear that there is no legitimacy in these sanctions, because iran has complied with all the terms of the nuclear agreement. europe must therefore, as has already been said, be prepared to help european businesses. the union should negotiate specific exemptions with the united states, allowing our companies to continue doing business, but it should also allow member states to have ad hoc funds to support companies affected by sanctions and removed from credit channels, without this form of support being considered as state aid. every measure should be agreed and harmonized between the different states, because the very lack of coordination between the european states would create enormous damage to our companies. and of course, we have to figure out who's going to pay if they lose. trade with iran is certainly important for iranians, but it is also important for our companies, and if we do not want to lose it, we must run for cover and we must do it all together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place in the context of a profound change in international relations, and the last g7 meeting is a testimony to this. the current us administration seems to have adopted a disarming line in its simplicity in external relations, well interpreted also in the iranian case by mike pompeo. if you want to be considered a friend of the americans, then you have to accept the conditions that are put to you, twelve in the iranian case, or pay the consequences of refusal. this is a risk which may well pay off in the north korean case, but i doubt it will work with iran, with the risk of a dangerous escalation. i think that the american attitude should not be excused. let 's be clear . at this point, there is nothing that can reasonably be done to convince trump, netanyahu and bin salman to push them in the direction of a position of dialogue and rational analysis of the situation. if europe, like iran, is to have a chance of getting out of this difficult situation, it is essential that this chance be seen above all in the ability to exhaust their intentions through common sense and patience. pompeo's conditions, by the way, are more a tool in the hands of the israeli administration than in those of the us, opening the door to a legitimization of a de facto conflict that has already begun a few weeks ago on syrian soil. a well-conceived plan that europe and iran can only unravel through diplomatic patience, with the aim of closing that window of opportunity that netanyahu today seems to want to manage personally. that is why, madam high representative, in endorsing your line, i ask you first of all to work to avoid creating a casus belli here and in the region which could have consequences that are difficult to manage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be denied that trump's decision to withdraw from the iran nuclear agreement not only damages the credibility of the united states but also endangers the stability of the entire region and is a step backwards in the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. we europeans must safeguard the results of our diplomacy, and not allow the efforts of more than 12 years of negotiations to be wasted. we must ensure that the agreement is fully implemented, that the lifting of sanctions improves economic relations with iran and that this also has a positive impact on the living conditions of the iranian people. i fully appreciated and shared the speech by high representative federica mogherini. we must, as the european parliament, fully support his efforts and the work he has done so far and we must persuade iran, by all the means at the disposal of the european union, to keep its commitments, despite the us withdrawal. this will also help... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution on the modernisation and updating of the eu-chile association agreement, the european parliament rightly calls for improved cooperation in areas which we consider important, such as those relating to human rights, the implementation of international agreements on climate change, the conventions of the international labour organisation, and respect for the social rights of workers, women and lgbtqi people. the recent resolution adopted by the committee on international trade and parliament on the commercial side, for the first time, supports the creation of a dedicated gender chapter. these positive remarks, and above all the confirmation of good relations with chile, cannot, however, exempt us from pointing out other parts of the report which we do not share, such as the objectives of further liberalisation of the markets. it is not the openness to the ferocity of competition that defines the goodness and ambition of an agreement, the good relations between countries. in addition, great transparency and involvement of civil society in the negotiations are needed. we also find the request in the report to make the eu an observer to the pacific alliance very inappropriate. we do not believe that it is for the european union to decide what kind of integration the latin american countries, with whom we have embarked on an important path in the framework of the eu-celac summits, should follow. for these reasons, we will abstain.
madam president, fourteen years after its entry into force, the european union is about to renew the association agreement with chile, a friendly country with which we have always shared deep cultural roots and our oldest trading partner in latin america. today, renewing this agreement means strengthening europe's role as a key partner for latin america, at a time when the united states' global leadership is increasingly uncertain and when other countries, such as china, are gaining more and more influence in the region. there are some critical points: human rights and the protection of indigenous peoples. i'm glad to see both of them addressed in the report. the european union must encourage chile to solve the problem of the mapuche, the people of the earth, the only indigenous ethnic group in south america to have survived european colonization in an extraordinary way, whose lands have been taken from them since 1867 and arbitrarily occupied by the chilean government, which is still applying an anti-terrorism law from the pinochet era. i therefore hope that the agreement will be renewed on this basis, that a friendly hand will be extended to this friendly country and that a balanced relationship will be established, bringing tangible benefits to all citizens on both sides of the ocean. we defend the mapuche and their freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the facts, we cannot help but point out that the human rights movement is in crisis. after decades of conquest, many countries seem to have taken a step backward. many populist leaders and strongmen systematically express a total disregard for human rights and those who defend them. i must say, though, that perhaps the human rights movement does not seem to be learning the right lessons from the hardships. today, in the year of the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration, we must ask ourselves how we should approach the issue, whether by intensifying the old strategies or by broadening the scope. let 's get this straight . there's no doubt that activism can move people, but if the things we say about moral obligation made a difference, the world would be in a better place today. we who care about and care about human rights must ask ourselves what is driving so many people to vote for strong men in the world and in europe. the expansion of international human rights policies has been accompanied by an economic phenomenon that has led to the rise of radical populism and nationalism. it wasn't supposed to go like this. the universal declaration was supposed to take care of social protection, but the struggle for human rights has left the aspect of social citizenship too much in the background. if we want to point to a wider field today, then we must increasingly unify human and social rights. while i welcome the report and the work done by federica mogherini and stavros lambrinidis, i believe we should be working towards a more ambitious agenda, one that is able to offer viable alternatives to the ills of our time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, human rights remained at the heart of the european union's external action in 2017. we have worked to ensure that the same principles that inspired the creation of the union are upheld on a world scale: the european union is committed to the principles of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human and fundamental rights, and the principles of equality and solidarity. we have worked to ensure that these principles find a place within all policies, especially those with a strong external dimension. i am referring in particular to policies on development, trade and migration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on migration and refugees, which was adopted in december 2017. if the union is to be credible in its leading role as a champion of the promotion and protection of human rights on the world stage, it must also be prepared to sanction those states which oppose it both within and outside its borders.
in writing. the report states that in 2017, the human rights dimension was mainstreamed in all areas of eu external action and that europe played a leading role in human rights globally. certainly, efforts have been made, but the present situation is far from reassuring. in myanmar, a full-blown campaign of mass murder, rape and violence of various kinds has forced as many as 655,500 rohingya to flee to neighboring bangladesh since august 2017. in colombia, the military and multinational corporations continue to expropriate afro-colombians from their lands, taking advantage of the vacuum left by the civil war. in china, the forced disappearances of the turkic-speaking uighur minority increased dramatically in 2017, with the introduction of "re-education" camps in the xinjiang autonomous region. like the rohingya, the afro-colombians and the uighurs, many other peoples still suffer violence today, simply because of their ethnicity. but 2017 was also a record year for the number of imprisoned journalists, 153 of them in turkey alone, and for activists killed: at least 312. a tragic year, this 2017. starting to admit this is perhaps the first step towards a less hypocritical, but more constructive and realistic approach.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, an important report on cooperation and complementarity between the eu and nato should be expressed with realism and pragmatism rather than ideological or dogmatic approaches. a nato that looks almost exclusively to the east, forgetting the balkan side where it has operated for 20 years, is a nato that is clearly short-sighted. a report which welcomes the continuing trend towards increased defence spending among nato members is not going in a positive direction, on the contrary. it is wrong to insist too much on the eastern flank rather than on the mediterranean, since this is where several actors potentially destabilising for many member states are hiding, not to mention the obvious criticisms of turkey which have been underlined in no way. a balanced approach to eu-nato relations means demanding that in future bilateral relations be in favour of some common objectives and not necessarily against third parties. we need a balanced approach, an approach which takes account of the security needs of the various member states of the two organizations, an approach which, however, seems to be lacking in this report and which we shall abstain from adopting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am an international terrorist. obviously i am not really a terrorist, i am for the poroshenko regime, which accused me of international terrorism for going to donbass with the anti-fascist caravan to bring solidarity and basic necessities to the people suffering from war. i am really surprised that this parliament is considering supporting this fourth tranche, because we are talking about a government that is not only corrupt, a government backed by neo-nazi forces, a government that denies the most basic human rights, that kills journalists, and we are supporting a coup d'état, like that of euromaidan, simply because it is pro-european union. we are supporting a government that violates human rights, violates the minsk agreements. i believe that if we really want to build an anti-fascist europe, we should stop funding regimes like poroshenko's and instead support political works and actions such as the anti-fascist caravans, which i personally thank.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital revolution has made our lives easier, but it has also exposed us to new threats such as cybercrime, cyberterrorism and cyberattacks, sometimes even by states. in the face of the serious risks associated with potential attacks from cyberspace, while member states remain responsible for national security, the european union must develop a common and comprehensive cyber defence policy. in this context, europol's cybercrime centre will need to be strengthened to become a focal point for the exchange of information between government agencies dealing with cybercrime, as well as to provide assistance to member states. the commission will also have to work to strengthen public-private partnerships, to create synergies and innovative solutions between civil and military markets and to strengthen cyber defence through international cooperation and with nato for more effective defence by our countries.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for their work. the report on the circular economy which we are about to vote on is very ambitious and full of meaning, especially for those of us who, like me, come from campania, which, it is good to remember, has been tormented for decades by criminal associations which, in defiance of any norm, including ethics, have caused the pollution and destruction of one of the most beautiful territories in italy. reducing the amount of waste that ends up in landfills and securing and cleaning up landfills, both legal and illegal, is a top priority of the text we are adopting. i think this is the right direction. the commission is now being asked to take action and make an extraordinary effort to clean up areas used for illegal dumping and burial of hazardous waste, which is damaging to the health and economic and social well-being of the people involved. as i have said, what has happened in tierra del fuego is a phenomenon that transcends national borders and therefore deserves the attention of the european union. i think that an explicit reference to phenomena of this kind is a positive sign. this is an important message from the european institutions to the citizens of those areas whose lives have been completely upended. i hope therefore that this request will not remain a dead letter and that the commission will act as soon as possible to protect the health and rights of citizens. every time i leave and i get on a plane and i see vesuvius, i think i'm really admiring one of the most beautiful landscapes i've ever seen. yet, man is able to destroy what nature magnificently creates. the task of politics is to provide answers and solutions to people's problems and to ensure that the right to live in a healthy environment is respected. i would like to thank the carabinieri and all the police forces who fight in this area every day. but it is also time for europe to act.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the circular economy was not included among the priorities of the european union in the 2014-2020 programming. today, however, we know how much it can be a key element in the sustainable development of a region and how it can provide answers to the challenges facing local communities. while there is no doubt that greater coordination and cooperation between regions, small and mediumsized enterprises and other public and private actors is desirable, it is also true that, in accordance with the principles of cohesion themselves, those regions which are not yet able to align themselves with good practice should be given greater support and follow-up. i therefore believe that the possibility of introducing a new ex ante conditionality provision to achieve the circular economy in the context of cohesion policy can sometimes become an insurmountable constraint, while it is more than appropriate to monitor the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the circular economy, also in the light of the increase in spending. as the excellent report states, there is an urgent need for special measures to clean up areas used for illegal dumping and burial of hazardous waste, which is harmful to the health and economic and social well-being of the people concerned. it is precisely the most deprived areas that are most affected. it is through greater collaboration between all actors involved in the circular economy processes that the objectives set by the european union can be achieved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am addressing myself to you mainly because, if the objective of cohesion policies is to reduce the social, economic and also developmental gap between the different areas of the european union, and this objective is rightly pursued also by reflecting the key principles of the circular economy, then i wonder whether the infringement procedure, as it has been conceived so far, is a useful tool for achieving these objectives. i'm from italy. italy, through the fault of previous governments, was sentenced to pay penalties for 68 illegal dumping sites. we have been condemned for the waste emergency in campania was mentioned earlier and for the pollution of urban waste water. we have recently been referred to the european court of justice for another 44 irregular dumping sites, for failure to secure radioactive waste and for exceeding the emission limits for pm10 and dn.02. we are therefore very far from the virtuous principles of the circular economy we are talking about and will instead pay very high fines for a total of over one billion euros. i ask you how you intend to reduce the economic and social gap if these citizens of the b-class are repeatedly violating their fundamental right to health and environmental protection and eventually have to pay the very high fines you impose on them. we say that if these fines have to be paid, then the money must not go to the budget of the european union but must be spent in the same member state that pays them to deal with the very causes that led to the fine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there is a new awareness today that the crisis, not only economic but also in terms of values, has helped to make it a shared heritage, the awareness that the figure of innovation must be consolidated in order to support another idea of development. a real revolution, then, is that of the circular economy and innovation, which restores dignity to the environment and human capital and which cannot be experienced only as industrial innovation of process and product, but which must involve and enhance territories, urban communities, rural communities and human capital, also to overcome any resistance to change. in short, a new key to cohesion policy. building within the vision of success of these years a new connection between policies, research in the service of sustainability, active policies for work, oriented to the processes of promotion of the business system, an increasingly inclusive vision of the community.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now one year since the european union signed the istanbul convention, and we are here today to commemorate it. as with any anniversary that is respected, we also do a first review to see if we have done enough to meet expectations. the answer is no, we haven't done enough. of course, we know that, it's not with a signature that things can change. a signature will not stop the violence and discrimination that women suffer every day throughout europe. so we do more, we urge the governments of the member states to do more, to legislate more effectively and to put in place all the necessary forces so that violence against women does not stop and we are frankly tired of waiting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the signing by the european union of the istanbul convention was a fundamental step towards providing legal instruments to prevent violence, prosecute perpetrators and provide support to victims. one year after the union's accession, however, it is clear that not all states have effectively implemented the convention and that, even where the provisions have been implemented, violence is still a sad and tragic reality for many women. it is clear that legislation alone, however effective and comprehensive, is not enough. it is not enough to solve the many problems of gender-based violence in a clear and definitive way. we need a more effective change of pace, through the provision of preventive educational tools, to spread a new culture of respect for women, and we need the adoption at european level of a new integrated policy against all forms of violence against women, which calls for zero tolerance in all countries, in order to finally achieve a truly equal society.
the agenda includes a discussion with the prime minister of the netherlands, mark rutte, on the future of europe (2018/2728 ((rsp)). i have the pleasure of welcoming the prime minister of the kingdom of the netherlands, mr rutte. i thank him for accepting our invitation to a debate with the members of the european parliament on the future of europe. we are interested in the proposals of the government of the kingdom of the netherlands. we are interested in involving all the prime ministers of our union in this parliament, which is the heart of european democracy, so that we can have a calm, frank and constructive debate on the future of europe. so i am very pleased that the dutch prime minister has accepted our invitation and i give him the floor immediately.
thank you very much, mr rutte. the first reaction is positive. i think that a standing ovation is a good message from the european parliament.
i'm now closing the system for electronic recording of catching-the-eye requests.
leaders of groups, please, it is important to respect your speaking time now, because one minute more for you is one minute less for your group. (applause)
thank you very much, mr verhofstadt. i want to thank you for this.
i would remind the audience in this chamber that those who attend the debate are not allowed to applaud or disagree with the speakers.
the word is on. i welcome him because i believe this is his last speech in this house, having assumed responsibility for the government of his country, and i wish him well on behalf of all of us in luxembourg.
we need to respect speaking time because more time means fewer members of parliament can speak.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you prime minister for being here. you're from northern europe and i'm from southern europe, and where we come from, they say, "satisfaction doesn't understand fasting". we are here today to ask ourselves, once again, what the future of this european union will be. but what future can there be if we allow once again the duty-free import of tunisian oil into our territory, unfairly competing with our olive-growing enterprises? what future can we have if we import canadian wheat treated with glyphosate which, in addition to being carcinogenic, also destroys our small and mediumsized businesses which produce the durum wheat we need for pasta? and what future can there be if you had the courage to leave italy alone for ten years, in the face of the migration crisis? now you have the courage to close your borders and you still have the courage to say that italy and the italian government are xenophobic. and you, mr joão rodrigues, who are here before me, how dare you insult the italian government and the 17 million italian citizens who voted for you? so if this is the union you want, there is no future for this union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that populism is growing when the european union is unable to give concrete answers to the issues of immigration, employment, inequality and poverty. i think that the italian government's position, which must be respected, is a challenge. it is a challenge to the very concreteness and effectiveness of the response. i therefore believe that we should no longer be swayed by selfishness and prejudice, that is to say, by the need for the european parliament's position in the next council to be taken as a position to be shared, because we can no longer wait. today another thousand migrants have arrived at the port of catania and italy is doing its part in this situation, but it is no longer acceptable that the countries of the south should be left alone. so we need redistribution, we need precise rules, we need everyone to do their part, because if europe wants to exist, i think it is time to show it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i am a little worried because i think we are here to talk about the future of europe, but that europe will have no future if we do not respond to what mr timmermans has passionately spoken about. i very much appreciated him today and yesterday, because i found in him a genuine appeal, a genuine appeal to give an answer to solve this crisis, which is a serious matter. the migration crisis facing europe will blow europe apart if you in the council do not realise that this is the priority. there will be no future for europe if you do not. we need to get back to basics, minister. you mentioned a father of europe, i would like to quote another: from gasperi. i went to watch his speech again. he said, as early as 1954, that we need a european architecture which can dominate from the bottom up, where we embrace all thoughts, and not, as verhofstadt says so often: you're good, you're bad, you're included, you're out the door, no! and look, back then, it wasn't easy. it was after the war, there were still so many fascinated by bolshevik totalitarianism. today we must take up that europe to build a common home, where citizens want to enter, from the bottom up. top down doesn't work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, you have told us that europe must be less in the unnecessary - and i can agree that we must reduce the intrusiveness of certain detailed rules - but at the same time you have clearly said that we need a strong european union in foreign policy, defence, security and economic policies and therefore in the defence of the euro area. so, do you not think that a real surrender of sovereignty is necessary on these issues, and therefore more europe? secondly, do you not think that we need an adequate budget? you are certainly right when you say that moral hazard is wrong, but i would like to see what you would do if you were faced with 30, 40 or 50 per cent of young people unemployed or unemployed, whether you would choose austerity first or whether you would choose to answer the questions of your citizens instead.
thank you very much, mr rutte, for the timing. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report restates an old and completely wrong cliché. it is a cliché that the european union is taking a revengeful attitude towards the russian federation. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. i think that it does not take account of the new world balances, it does not take account of the specific situation in the pacific and of the kind of isolationism we are in danger of having. i believe that using nato as a framework for reproposing this russophobic attitude against the russian federation is not in the interests of europe, nor in the interests of our citizens, nor in the interests of a strategic dimension that we must have. above all, i believe that we cannot continue to ignore what is happening in the rest of the world in an ever-wider, ever-global competition. that is why i did not vote for this report.
in march parliament approved the commission's decision to activate article 7 (1). there are now persistent rumors that some in the commission, alert to concerns in the council, are prepared to suspend the decision. the same rumors cast a shadow over a pis-ppe switch, a move that would guarantee warsaw the umbrella enjoyed by hungary. i would ask vice-president timmermans, whom i thank for his consistency, to clarify the commission's intentions, particularly as regards the timing of action. the risk, if the union were to freeze, is that it would appear to be unarmed in the face of degenerations of the rule of law within it. in that case, it is better not to trigger article 7 at all than to admit so openly a possible inability to act.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on humanitarian emergencies in the mediterranean and solidarity within the european union (2018/2768 ((rsp)). ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes at a particularly difficult time. the immigration emergency requires an immediate response from the european union. the problem cannot be solved at national level, nor can it be solved by polemics between member states. controversies, contrasts and comparisons only risk pushing the solution of the problem further away. if we look at what will happen in the next few years, we cannot but decide very quickly what to do. by 2050, there will be two and a half billion africans. if we don't act on climate change, on terrorism, on poverty, on drought, on famine and poverty for peace, we will have biblical migration. there will not be thousands of people moving out of africa, there will be millions of people moving out of africa. and we are still wasting time, the member states are still arguing among themselves without finding a solution. the european parliament, which represents half a billion european citizens, has approved a reform of the dublin rules which can be a good basis for comparison between the member states, because we have not made a weak choice but have combined firmness and solidarity. so it's a good call. we are prepared to compromise and reach agreements, but the next european council cannot remain without decisions, because the whole structure of the european union is at stake. the problem here is not one of 'immigration yes, immigration no, what kind of immigration', but the survival of the european union as a whole. we need to be very clear: the problem cannot be solved by states alone. so we need a short, medium and long-term strategy. i believe that in the short term it is to stop the flow of migrants, in the medium term to create a libyan state that can be a partner of europe and, in the long term, a strategy that will also have to be an important part of the next multiannual budget of the european union for more investment in the african continent. the european parliament will not give up its leading role. we have worked hard - i thank all the political groups - there are concrete proposals and we want these proposals to be examined by the member states. on monday next week we will be in vienna to meet the next austrian presidency. i intend to assert with prime minister kurz the european parliament's position and i will reiterate this position to the council when i take the floor. i intend to go to niger to bring a positive message to that part of africa about europe's intentions. if i am allowed, i will also go to libya to follow up the european parliament's mission there and the document approved by the european parliament. no one can say that this parliament has not been at the forefront of trying to solve the problem of immigration, but we cannot give up on solving the problem. that is why i strongly urge the commission and the council to act. the polemics between states about who is tougher, who is more responsible, are useless. these are just minor mistakes which do not help to solve a historic problem which is creating great social alarm and which is really in danger of having a negative effect on the whole of the european union. that is why, commissioner, madam president of the council, i ask you to take this parliament's request very seriously. we do not intend to remain silent, we do not intend to play the role of a postcard, we intend to be protagonists in solving a historic problem for the european union. the council has now decided to take the initiative in the matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the report by the representative of the council and the commissioner and i must say that my conviction has increased in relation to three fundamental points which have been brought out after the events of these hours. the first is the issue of the great inability to deal with this problem in a definitive and structural way. we have heard a list of many measures, we have also heard the multiplication of resources, but we have not heard and continue not to hear a single word about the will to redistribute the great mass of migration flowing into a few countries. this is the knot we are facing and until the european countries come to terms with the ideas that must be addressed and give a clear answer on this matter, the risk is that connected with the great hypocrisy, the controversy of these hours, which is frankly embarrassing. it is frankly inappropriate and totally wrong to hear from countries which have deployed soldiers on their borders to prevent women and children from entering a polemic against other countries. this brings us to the third consideration, which is a paradox. i hear a lot of talk in this house against anti-establishment parties and you do not realise that the european institutions have had and are having the ability to create the conditions for the growth of anti-establishment parties in all countries, even though they have positions that are totally opposed to them. in fact, there are more and more people who are asking for and have a tough attitude towards immigrants, in order to have the solidarity of redistribution, and there are more and more people who, paradoxically, at the same time, close their own borders, having the same attitude. i think that europe is facing a clear risk today. the question is no longer whether this or that state is appropriate, but whether europe has a future. and the immigration game is worth much more than the economic, social and institutional games. i hope you realize this enormous gravity.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2012 italy has been condemned three times by the strasbourg court for collective expulsions by pro-establishment governments. let us remember this by recalling the unjust closing of its ports on aquarius. in italy, the blame for malta is being discussed. understandably, malta, unfortunately, does not adhere to the sar and solas reforms on rescue at sea and considers that it does not have the obligations of signatories like italy. again, macron accuses rome of cynicism, but cynically closes the borders with italy. when we criticize rome, we take these things into account. we are particularly concerned about the deadlock in the dublin iv negotiations. the sleep of solidarity breeds monsters almost everywhere in the union. that is why i support verhofstadt's proposal: parliament may, under rule 265, appeal to the council for inaction. that is why i support the italian government's rejection of the proposals of the bulgarian presidency on dublin iv.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy has never failed to fulfil its duty to save lives at sea. today, a boat of the italian coast guard was also welcomed in catania, having rescued more than 900 people who had been rescued in the mediterranean. as of 2014, there have been approximately 640 000 landings that have taken place in italy. the aquarius affair has laid bare what we've been denouncing for quite some time, we can say for years. italy is left alone not only in the management of immigration once migrants arrive on italian soil, which is also european soil, but also in search and rescue operations. i am addressing the representative of the european council, who says that the european union has supported italy with operation triton. we are talking about operation triton, which envisaged that italy would be the only country hosting all the landings. so you understand that if we talk about dublin, which still imposes the principle that responsibility rests with the countries of first arrival, if we take a step back and see that search and rescue operations must be carried out with landings only in italy, then let us ask ourselves a question, which i have not heard from anyone so far: why should those who are entitled to international protection, those who are fleeing war and persecution, those who are forced to leave their country of origin, have to come to italy or europe illegally? the greatest contradiction and the greatest hypocrisy in the european union is that it wants to combat illegal immigration on the one hand and not offer a legal alternative on the other. the fact that those who are forced to leave their country because of wars and persecution have to pay the traffickers and have to pay the pirates. so if we really want to talk about reforming the common european asylum system, if we really want to talk about cooperation, if we really want to respect the provisions of the treaties and article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, then we should start talking about a real european right to asylum, we should start talking about legal ways of accessing the european union, we should start giving those fleeing war and persecution the opportunity to arrive legally and safely, without being forced to board and cross the mediterranean in inhumane conditions, without being forced to pass through italy as a transit country. so in this case we would have concrete solidarity and not just words.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have been cheating italy on immigration for many years and it is your fault and that of the letta, renzi and gentiloni governments that italy has become the refugee camp of europe. in the last five years, 700 000 immigrants have landed in italy, 80% of them illegal immigrants. what has europe done to help italy? i didn't see anything. what have malta, spain and france done? i got zero! in fact, france started the war in libya over oil and left italy with waves of immigrants. president macron and the french bullies, who today accuse minister salvini and the italians of being responsible and vomitful, should be ashamed and apologize. we do not accept lessons from anyone, least of all from macron's france, which in 2018 rejected 10,000 immigrants at the border with italy. the patience of the italians is over, over! minister salvini and the new government will stop the business of illegal immigration. we will close the ports and defend the interests of the italians, not those of some french oil company or some billionaire who finances ngo ships to bring illegal immigrants to italy. europe has two options: i am not saying that we should not be able to help italy and defend its external borders, or that we should continue with the usual hypocritical policy of macron and this european parliament and this commission. time is almost up. if europe really exists, it must strike now, immediately, otherwise it will remain silent forever.
i'm asking for a blue card. i believe that the first paragraph of rule 165 of the rules of procedure states that no one can be offended in this house, no one can offend the italian government by words such as 'xenophobic' which our colleague has used. i therefore ask you to act immediately in accordance with rule 165 (1).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we hear words like 'invasion' when the figures tell us that there is no invasion in fact, or 'migrant business' which is a phrase that should be explained by those who use it. the commission's proposal to reform dublin is very ambitious, but as usual it is blocked by the selfishness of the member states. the concept of europe is at stake here, and today it has been completely betrayed. we are in a europe of selfishness where if everyone thinks for himself, on taxes, on work, on immigration and on foreign policy, europe itself ceases to exist. we need a change, but we don't do it with other tests of strength, adding selfishness to selfishness, like those who today sing victory saying that to speak up is like a neighborhood bully. but what victory? every state in europe today has lost and overcome if it continues to do this every day and if it continues to treat the issue of migrants as a necessary evil to be spread throughout its body. it's not an emergency, but it's a changing world and it's going to keep changing. if we want to be protagonists in this irreversible process, if we want to lead it and not be crushed, then we must change too. we need a cultural revolution and i hope that these words remind my friends in the five star movement , we need to change the rules that are not carved in stone, but we also need to change and especially the ideas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the women, the men, the mayors, starting with the mayor of naples, who took to the streets in front of the ports to shout: "open your eyes!" i would like to thank them for making me feel a little less ashamed of being italian and of being european. i ask my colleagues in the five star movement, many of whom i have worked with on many occasions in this european parliament: what do you call him if not xenophobic who talks about "package" about refugees coming to italy? what do you call someone who cries victory over a ship with 600 people on board, who is forced to go all the way to spain? what do you call it? what a regulation of the european parliament! i would say that salvini is an icon, he is an icon of the racism that is growing in this european union. but we are not forgetting libya and turkey, with whom the european union has an agreement. let us not forget bardonecchia and ventimiglia, to which macron is obviously not paying much attention. let's not forget about ceuta. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first question i would like to put to the members of the european parliament in this chamber is: how many times over the years have we had exactly the same discussion? i do not blame commissioner avramopoulos, but his speech seems to be a recycling of the same words he used three or four years ago, and nothing has changed. in fact, today there is the novelty that, to the same things that are always said, the trend topic of the moment is added, which is to say "italian populist government, xenophobic italian government", as someone said in a really disrespectful way. but what has the italian government done? the italian government has done far less than all the other governments in the european union and i do not see that the french government, the pro-european macron government, has been singled out by you as a nazi, xenophobic government for what it did in bardonecchia by blitz in italian territory, where there were pregnant women and children. i don't recall macron being considered xenophobic for closing his ports or for what he's doing in ventimiglia. and i do not see that the spanish government, which was making a hot-button rejection, which is not what italy did, has been branded as fascist, nazi, xenophobic, anti-human rights and genocidal! it didn't, and so we start to adopt the same meter and the same measure. what has happened in these years is that italy has been left alone by all the other states of the european union. it was left alone to deal with a momentous, global phenomenon of a continent that is moving. it was logical that at some point someone, who maybe doesn't do business on the skin of migrants, would have to say: stop it! you can't go on like this! and so let us be serious and demand that all european states take responsibility, starting with france, which was the first to cause what happened in libya... (the president interrupted the speaker) (the speaker agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr schwab, i think we are confusing the terminology here, because what you call 'migrants' are actually called 'refugees' and are people who have already been granted international protection. those who arrive in italy are migrants who, because of dublin, remain in italy. so i say: i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area. - you all right?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two quick remarks. i would like to say to president macron that if we have a government today which he does not like at all, and which i do not like either, and i would like to say to the other members of the council that if we have this government here, perhaps it is also because of the policies that many states have taken against italy, by not helping our country in the past years. i would remind president macron that three months ago i invited him to come to bardonecchia and ventimiglia to see what the situation was that has been created and which still exists today. and to my colleagues in the five star movement, i would like to ask: where are you? where's your humanity? you used to raise money for ngos and now you let the ngo ships stay in the middle of the sea because you have abdicated to the fascist policies of minister salvini! and finally, i would like to ask minister salvini: why isn't he here? why is he not here to take the european parliament's proposal on the reform of the dublin treaty and bring it to the council? this is what our country should do, as it has done in past years!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enough of insulting italy, both in this house and outside, the italy which saves and has saved hundreds of thousands of migrants! it's too bad tajani's not here. we must apologize to italy and, yes, we must defend our italian government. i am an italian and i defend this government, even though i am not a part of it. the government shut down the ports. it is easy to talk from those benches of european solidarity with the ports of others, because the ports are not opened to women, even to children, as has been done by france, by spain. so we have a dublin regulation - i had a speech that i deleted, i don't want to do it again - but let's talk about an earlier moment, let's also talk about the creation of hotspots in transit countries, in libya, in tunisia, let's talk about the coordination that needs to be at european level of landings, and give europe, which it doesn't yet have, an exact assessment of the instruments to see whether or not a country is under heavy pressure. this must be done, because dublin will fall at a later date if we want to. so let us not insult countries which have done europe's dirty work! rinse your mouth when you talk about italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian government's decision on the aquarius is very serious and violates international law of the sea. salvini, whoever is strong with the weak and weak with the strong is a coward. the battle for european solidarity is not fought on the skin of people at sea, but here at the tables where wrong rules are changed, as in dublin, as we have done in this parliament, by obtaining a historic two-thirds vote, which abolishes the criterion of the first country of access and establishes compulsory relocation and genuine european solidarity. where was the league that we haven't seen you at for 22 negotiating meetings? go to the council, at least now that you are in government, and ask your friend orban to do his part on the reception. and you european governments did not think you were free. the ngos that save lives at sea are only making up for the shameful lack of a european humanitarian search and rescue mission at sea worthy of a civilised europe. the only way to stop the deaths is to open legal and safe routes to all european countries, otherwise italy and greece will continue to be the only points of access to an entire continent on very dangerous routes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these days we have witnessed the brazenness of mr salvini and mr di maio, who, with their unlikely alliances, unfortunately on the backs of the weakest, at the expense of human rights, make europe believe that it can stop the disembarkations by closing the ports. the rules change at the negotiating table, not on social media. in europe, and i ask all the member states to do so, we are working to seek constructive alliances for a fair sharing of responsibility. this parliament has done so by amending dublin, by removing the criterion of the country of first entry and opting for compulsory relocation. whoever arrives in italy arrives in europe. the search and rescue system remains our priority, italy's flagship thanks to the extraordinary work of the navy, the coast guard and ngos, which are increasingly scapegoats for failed european and national policies. to sos mediterranée, medecins sans frontières, sea watch, proactiva, sea eye, mission lifeline, i would like to say thank you for this great act of humanity. solidarity with all the victims of the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the aquarius has had the merit of breaking the veil of hypocrisy behind this real and great age-old problem of immigration. it has broken the veil of a policy that does not work, a european policy that has abandoned italy and left it alone in relation to these demographic flows, and it has made even more evident the neo-colonialist policy pursued by france, which had the audacity to define our country in an unassailable way, a policy pursued in africa on the bayonets of the foreign legion, a policy whose effects we are still suffering today for the disastrous action against the libyan government of the time. this action is still being carried out today, with the president of the french republic, who, in defiance of everything and above all of european foreign policy, continues to meet with al-sarraj and general haftar almost as if he were a foreign minister of the european union. this is what we 're paying for: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was proud of a president of the council who said that it was better to lose one vote than one life in the mediterranean, and i am grateful to him for that. but on the other hand, we cannot blame italy today, italy which has made a great effort and has given a great example of humanity in the mediterranean. today, italy cannot be blamed for what has been done. italy has been left alone and today it is the council which has this responsibility. the council will be able to find a solution at the end of this month if it so wishes. the council cannot continue to postpone the solution, while parliament has a definite position, perhaps not the best, but certainly a great step forward on the dublin regulation. today i call on the council: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. your hands are bloodstained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aquarius is a clear demonstration of the consequences of the absence of a european policy on immigration and refugees, but it is also, let us be careful, a clear demonstration of the absolute necessity of a european policy, which cannot be lacking. unless, in the coming months, we see the italian government moving italy into the north seas, italy will have the problem of immigrants and refugees and will have to deal with it together with the others. we need a european policy. unfortunately, by avoiding problems, we've been put on the back foot by problems. it is now clear that policies are also needed to prevent italian public opinion from sliding into an anti-european position. the question of immigration has been the golden goose for the league and salvini so far, and i think we must give public opinion a voice by ensuring that the european council of 28-29 june... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ill-fated decision of minister salvini to close ports to humanitarian ships should alarm us and encourage the next european council to give serious consideration to the proposal voted by parliament to overcome dublin. ladies and gentlemen, there is one fact that cannot be ignored: italy has been left to deal with the humanitarian emergency on its own. this is a reality confirmed by the events and statements of the last few days, most recently by commissioner avramopoulos. despite efforts in recent years to contain and humanely control the phenomenon, only 31% of migrants who landed in italy and greece were later taken in by another eu country. france and germany have taken in only 25% and 37% of the quotas provided for, and we are well aware of the approach to migration policy in austria and the eastern european countries. as long as there is a fragmented european union on the issue of migration, there will be no real european project, because we are european only if we have the courage to build bridges and not walls.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schwab, and the other shadow rapporteurs for the long and difficult work we have done together. the goal we set for ourselves was an ambitious one. it was a matter of substantially changing the text which had been handed to us by the commission. so finding balance and convergence on new formulations was not a small task, we succeeded and that is very important. we had this objective and together we wanted to find solutions which would not restrict the autonomy of the member states. it was our job to support the member states in maintaining their autonomy in regulating professional activities and in pursuing public interest objectives through this regulation, as was already said in the debate. we have now amended that proposal and reached a conclusion, of which i would like to stress some aspects. we have ensured that the test arrangements are flexible and proportionate to the changes under consideration. it wasn't like that at first. we have explicitly reiterated the competence of the member states to regulate the professions. the different approaches are not to be regarded as wrong or negative before they are even proposed, but they must be synergistic with the overall solution we are considering here. we rejected - yes, because there are not only the positive things we added, there are also the things we removed - the commission's proposal to create independent monitoring bodies that could disrupt future work, ensuring that the list of criteria to be assessed is proportionate and less burdensome for the member states, including by eliminating the economic impact assessment that was in the original text. we have strengthened the measures for transparency and consultation of stakeholders, starting with the social partners, and we have finally maintained the explicit recognition in the text of the directive of the specific nature of the regulation of health professions, which has been the subject of much discussion but which has created a great deal of sensitivity in all the countries of the union. we have therefore the autonomy of the member states, which avoids deregulation, and at the same time we have increased transparency and the involvement of the social partners. it was a necessary balance, but not a simple one. i'm very glad we did it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, very few thoughts. freedom to pursue professions, including healthcare, and freedom to conduct a business are fundamental prerequisites for the development of human capital in a europe of growth, while protecting the rights of consumers, workers and professionals as well as the business system. to achieve this, it is necessary to avoid imposing disproportionate and sometimes insurmountable obstacles to the achievement of these objectives. while it is true, as it is true, that in the absence of specific provisions aimed at harmonising the requirements for access to and the exercise of regulated professions, the member states are responsible for their regulation, that responsibility cannot but be embedded in the indispensable principles of non-discrimination and proportionality, thus tending towards homogenisation also with regard to the mechanism of mutual evaluation. the ex ante evaluation of existing or new regulations therefore seems to us to be a fair and acceptable option for the proper functioning of the market, which we want to make ever more transparent and ever more consumer-friendly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the directive on the proportionality test, thanks to the work of our colleagues, in particular the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, should help the national authorities to legislate better, not to prevent legitimate legislative action by the member states. competent professionals who are fully integrated into the new digital dimension will be crucial for europe to remain competitive in the world and to safeguard our social model. to preserve a high quality of professional services we therefore need supportive policies, but above all a common, effective and proportionate regulatory framework. we have corrected a wrong attitude on the part of the commission, which regarded all legislative measures as an obstacle to economic growth. on the contrary, madam president, commissioner, i believe that we must promote rules which support healthy competition, young people's access to the labour market, growth and innovation, but which also protect the quality of the services provided, public interest objectives and final consumers.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank all the speakers who took the floor. of course, i very much welcome the positive remarks. i listened carefully to the negative ones and to some concerns that honourable members have. i would like once again to highlight the importance of this directive for the further improvement of the single market for services. this is one of the most important parts of our services package, and i am glad that, at least for now, we have this part of the package. i want to add that professional mobility is a right of eu citizens and i will echo some of you in saying that the vote tomorrow will be about values and freedoms, not just about professional services. so i hope that, with that vote tomorrow, you will support the compromise that has been reached in the proposal. i think it is a good compromise and i want to thank everyone involved and everyone who cooperated with us and with whom we reached this outcome.
in writing. smart regulation of professions can boost economic growth in the member states and the eu as a whole, provided that this does not come at the expense of professionalism itself as not all member states have the same professional standards. the proportionality tests of the directive in question should therefore not only focus on the economic impact as a criterion in assessing the proportionality of the measures, but should ensure transparency, a high quality of professional services provided and a high level of consumer protection, seeking to ensure a balance between the restrictions imposed on a fundamental freedom and the objective of public interest. member states should be able to impose different requirements on access to certain professions, such as membership of professional organisations, continuing training and others, which may be important for the achievement of the public interest objective. service providers in regulated professions are already required to meet higher quality standards in terms of professional independence, education or lifelong learning. consequently, those professions must be able to rely on proportionate measures by the member states in which they provide services.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the opening of negotiations for the new partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific states represents a great opportunity to improve the characteristics of the cotonou agreement and to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development objectives. the eradication of poverty, respect for human rights, economic and social development and the integration of the acp states into the global economy must remain the focal points of the new negotiation. at the same time, the challenges of today embodied in the un 2030 agenda and the african union 2063 agenda need to be highlighted in the new agreement as well: the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable economy, the fight against climate change, the definition of legal pathways for immigration and the promotion of peace. we have also stressed today the role of immigration in the european context. the new agreement between the acp countries and europe cannot deal with immigration in terms of return only. an ambitious, holistic policy must be put in place to work towards eradicating poverty and the root causes of immigration. the future agreement requires a strengthening of the parliamentary dimension. we insist on the strengthening of political dialogue to ensure that our activities are democratically relevant. we therefore welcome the possibility of involving the opposition and civil society in the periodic acp-eu meetings. we must work more and more with the citizens and towards the citizens. implement and strengthen youth and gender policies, build a system that allows monitoring of human rights, taking into account civil society reports. respect for and promotion of fundamental human rights was the cornerstone of the cotonou agreement and must be the basis on which the future agreement is built.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cotonou agreement has so far been based on three pillars: development cooperation, political and economic cooperation and cooperation in trade. the trade policy has been a total failure. some countries of the union have set up agreements of a neo-colonialist nature, in which only in words were sustainable measures on human rights, new social norms and environmental protection aimed at, but in fact they have fuelled trade liberalization, imposing high prices on our products, such as new medicines, such as processed products or those of advanced technology such as mobile phones. as this was happening, these countries, particularly france, were raiding raw materials, from rare materials in congo to fishery products in senegal, fossil fuels in nigeria, uranium in niger, blood diamonds in sierra leone and cocoa in the ivory coast. political cooperation should have been one of the cornerstones of the cotonou agreement, but it has so far not led anywhere near the stability we all wanted. it seems to us that insecurity is being fuelled and even encouraged in order to finance the arms trade and also the business of migrants. the negotiations should stress that political dialogue is a fundamental aspect of the cotonou agreement and that it must remain a central pillar in the overall legal framework. if we want to do only trade policy without thinking about the rights situation and without meaningful involvement of civil society in the dialogue at all levels, the new agreement will fail as the previous one did. i am not afraid to say that cooperation and development are in fact limited to the intergovernmental dimension alone, which escapes the control of parliaments and civil society. the meetings of the joint acp-eu institutions, and in particular the joint council of ministers, have produced very few tangible results and have experienced unfortunately minimal and low participation. the primary objective of development cooperation should have been the eradication of poverty. unfortunately, none of this has happened. we hope that the new agreement will seriously affirm the conditionality of respect for human rights and will really strengthen the political dialogue, giving concrete instruments to defend the common values of the acp-eu partnership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new agreement will have to be firmly rooted in the 2030 agenda, with a mechanism to monitor the progress made by both sides in implementing the new sustainable development goals. particular attention should be paid to those which were the essential elements of cotonou: the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child. i would add the great theme of combating tax evasion and avoidance, for which the developing countries are already paying the highest price. on immigration, we call on the council and the commission not to continue on the shameful path they have taken in recent times, of making aid conditional on greater border controls. unfortunately, the proposal seems to us to be too unbalanced towards returns and says little or nothing about opening up channels of legal immigration. let us work to ensure that the new partnership does not abandon its commitment to the fight against poverty and is a tool for addressing needs and protecting rights and for sustainable development that truly leaves no one behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we all know the crucial importance of the acp-eu partnership, the great strides that have been made in the fight against poverty and the great and enormous challenges that still lie ahead. in this context, we are considering the many options that may be open to the new partnership, all of which are relevant, but we must not forget what i believe is the most crucial aspect, namely the financing. the budgetization of the european development fund is to be welcomed, but only if its purpose is preserved. the leaks about the new proposed instrument for neighbourhood, development and international cooperation, however, do not reassure us at all, on the contrary. it is clear that the binding allocation of development funds will be sacrificed on the altar of flexibility and that the fight against poverty will give way in the hierarchy of priorities to the defence of the interests of the european union. we can design the best possible acp-eu partnership, but if we do not ensure that the funds earmarked for its financing are not diverted, we will have lost the most important development game and the consequences will unfortunately be felt for decades to come.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to underline that what is at stake in the upcoming negotiations for a new partnership agreement with the african, caribbean and pacific countries is ultimately the role of the european union as a global actor. it is my hope that the council will shortly adopt a decision to entrust the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy with the negotiation of objectives, strategic priorities and modalities whereby the eu can achieve such a global player’s role with its acp partners. let me conclude by assuring you that parliament will be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the negotiation procedure. i am looking forward to continuing our fruitful collaboration, and i remain certain that parliament will continue working to ensure that the european union keeps on standing up for its values.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am grateful for this interesting exchange. it shows a convergence of views on our side that the future acp-eu partnership needs to be adapted to the new needs. this convergence is also due to the work of the european parliament and the regular exchanges between all of us in the process of preparing the eu negotiating mandate. while we need to build on the achievements of the cotonou framework, it is imperative that the future framework take better account of the interests, needs and challenges of the different regions on the acp side. concerning the questions from mr wenta and some other honourable members, i would like to say that the presidency will continue its efforts to allow the council to adopt its mandate as soon as possible, in order for the negotiations to start as envisaged. the council will make its decision on publication of the negotiating directives after we have agreed on the final text. the negotiation process will be crucial. the council will contribute, within the limits of its role, to its successful progress and will continue its exchanges on this important topic with the european parliament.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2018.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statements of the council and the commission on the implementation and follow-up of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies (2018/2743 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hear many fine words in this house. it's about social inclusion, equality, inclusion, caring, sharing, peace and love, and so on and so forth. the commission knows that it is wrong to finance this project because the results of integration do not yet exist. they don't exist because you claim to integrate those who don't want to be integrated. just think of all the money wasted in italy. 100 million a year to run the roma camps in milan, rome and naples. 27 million thrown away by the city of rome for a project with poor results for the education of nomadic children. the eu is making available some 26.5 billion euros from european taxpayers to finance these failed projects which also require huge direct national appropriations, in other words the poor money of the italians. the commission's statement makes me think that it does not know what it is talking about, because in italy, as yesterday's news shows, there are continuing feuds between nomadic families who are fighting over the property, dear colleagues, of a minor girl who has been segregated into slavery and forced into prostitution. giving money to those who commit these crimes is complicity, and you are worse, because you want to continue with this disgusting piece of work.
there is a blue card for each speaker, not two, three or four, otherwise it is no longer a question, it is something else. catch the eye procedure
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for your clear and strong contributions, engagement and guidance on this important matter. it is obvious that, together, we need to continue an eu-level commitment. roma strategies must be part of a broader narrative of inclusive structural reform that benefits all groups suffering discrimination and exclusion. in addition, hand-in-hand with socioeconomic inclusion, we will need an increased focus on fighting racism, in particular anti-gypsyism, as well as clearer, measurable roma integration goals, backed by robust transparent and inclusive monitoring. the results of the eu framework evaluation will feed into reflection on the needs and directions of the post-2020 eu approach. i count on your strong support along the way.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you once again for the opportunity to address this important subject in parliament. the council welcomes your determination to keep roma inclusion on the agenda and to provide continuity. let me repeat that the council has already called on the commission to propose the post-2020 strategy. it has not yet been decided how exactly the work on this subject will be continued after 2020, but we are quite confident that – with the proposal for the multiannual financial framework and the 25% guarantee financing under the european social fund+ for social inclusion – the national roma strategies will have the financing needed to implement them after 2020. we believe the eu framework for national roma integration strategies is a major achievement, a manifestation of our common commitment to social justice, so let us overcome our divisions and affirm our common humanity.
we thank the minister, who will be with us for the following debate, while we welcome and thank commissioner mimica for his presence. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on: - question for oral answer to the council on the improvement of language learning and mutual recognition of language competences in the european union by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000055/2018 - b8-0029/2018) (2018/2707(rsp)) and- question for oral answer to the commission on the improvement of language learning and mutual recognition of language competences in the european union by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000056/2018 - b8-0030/2018) (2018/2707(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, at the gothenburg summit in november 2017 the eu heads of state and government chose education and culture as the first subject to be addressed under the new leaders’ agenda, underlining their willingness to do more in these areas. the results of the gothenburg discussions were formalised in the conclusions of the european council meeting on 14 december last year, which emphasised that education and culture are key to building inclusive and cohesive societies. but the european council didn’t limit itself to such general statements: it also set out a number of specific areas for work to be taken forward. i would like to mention two such areas, which are specifically relevant to the question posed today. the first is language learning, where the heads of state and government called for action so that more young people will speak at least two european languages in addition to their mother tongue. the second area is the mutual recognition of higher education and school leaving diplomas, and here member states’ cooperation is key. the benefits of multilingual competences impact upon all aspects of life. they contribute to mutual understanding and mobility within the union. they increase our productivity, competitiveness and economic resilience. the lack of multilingual competences hampers the mobility of our citizens within the european union and beyond and limits access to education, training and the labour market. at a time when europe is looking to the future and seeking to re—engage, especially with young people, around an agenda of shared values, we believe multilingual and multicultural competences are crucial to creating a sense of belonging among europeans. here, i would like to remind you that multilingualism was one of the core elements of the modernised key competence framework adopted by the council in may and the council recommendation on promoting common values. the council recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning is particularly relevant because multilingual competence is identified as one of the eight key competences which should be developed by the member states’ education systems. this update was not just a single act by the council to address the common challenge in the european union of the modernisation of educational institutions, but also part of the member states’ overall ambition to keep working on the new skills agenda for europe. the council’s recent extensive work on that matter, including the provision of a quality framework for language learning and recognition, started with the revision of the european qualifications framework. the revised european qualifications framework recommendation provided better understanding of qualifications and enabled better use of the skills available on the european labour market. the new europass framework, agreed recently, builds on the successful formula with easy—to—use tools to help people identify and communicate their skills and qualifications in all eu languages, which is a major boost for the recognition of all eu languages. in addition, many other initiatives in europe have supported the definition and development of language competences. the council supports in a sustainable manner the use of the common european framework of reference for languages and recognises the impact of the european language label award for excellence and innovation in language teaching. allow me to remind you that the council held an education ministerial debate in february this year, when it called for a stronger erasmus+ programme building on current successful instruments and further boosting participation. the call for an inclusive erasmus+ programme, providing more and new participants with mobility opportunities, will increase the opportunities for young people both to learn more languages and to promote their own mother tongue with the european union and beyond. in may the council adopted important strategic conclusions on moving towards the vision a european education area, which recognised multilingual competence as an important building block of such an area. in the meantime, the commission has issued a package of three further proposals for council recommendations, including a proposal on the mutual recognition of higher education and school leaving diplomas and the proposal on improving language learning. the two proposed recommendations are particularly relevant to today’s discussion. the recommendation on improving language learning focuses on language teaching and learning in compulsory education, covering both general and vocational schools, as well as multilingual competences in a lifelong perspective. both recommendations will be examined in detail by the council. this process has only just begun and it is therefore too early at this point to comment on the substance. however, there is already broad consensus that these are the key areas to be addressed in seeking to build a european education area and it is my understanding that the ambition of the forthcoming austrian presidency is to seek agreement at least on the first proposal, on mutual recognition of diplomas, before the end of this year. therefore, on the issue of language learning, as well as mutual recognition of diplomas, it is clear that the work is progressing quite quickly. these issues are a priority for the council, and parliament can expect quality results during the upcoming presidencies.
i thank the minister and welcome commissioner navracsics, who will remember this evening because it is his birthday today and i wish him a very happy birthday.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the number of elephants poached is alarming. it is estimated that some 30,000 african elephants are killed each year to meet the world's demand for ivory. this makes certain african landmasses a veritable elephant graveyard. of course, poaching is not limited to elephants but involves a whole range of animals. in the face of such a disaster, we recognise that the european union's action plan against wildlife trafficking, which came into force last year, is a first step towards containing the scourge of ivory trafficking. however, the more restrictive measures adopted by the united states, china and hong kong are much more effective. the european union should raise the level of vigilance by adopting equally severe measures. the cycle of death that involves not only the elephants but also the forest rangers who dedicate their lives to their protection must be broken. we have received a call from africa and from the citizens of europe, and we must respond to it. the fight to safeguard biodiversity and wildlife conservation also requires a firm stance against the illegal ivory market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the illegal trade in ivory threatens the existence of wild elephants and rhinos and inevitably fuels the demand for ivory products obtained illegally, which undermines any attempt to control and reduce trade. we have already addressed the commission on this subject, most recently with a letter on 3 may, and we are here again to ask you - and i ask my colleagues - how you assess this problem and this particular aspect of the problem, that is, legal trade and its impact on illegal trade. the scientific community is unanimous in recognizing that the illegal killing of elephants by poachers for ivory is the primary cause of their decline, and in africa they are being killed at a staggering rate of 30,000 a year. the sad reality, commissioner, is that as long as there is an ivory market, there will be poaching and illegal trafficking. for this reason, i agree with what my colleagues are asking: imports into the union should be prohibited completely. there is no more time to lose. the time is ripe and we must act.
member of the commission. – madam president, the 2014 eu anti-corruption report provided a useful overview of the situation in each member state: measures in place, outstanding issues, policies that are working and areas that could be improved. the report showed that the nature and scope of corruption varies from one member state to another and that the effectiveness of anti-corruption policies is quite different. it also showed that corruption deserved attention in all eu member states. in the past years the commission has increasingly prioritised integrity and anti—corruption, also in the european semester of economic governance. corruption is still a key issue in a number of states, hampering investment, efficient resource allocation, economic performance and growth. the situation calls for continued, persistent and coherent action. it is against this background, in line with the general approach of this commission to streamline processes and focus on key issues in the relevant fora, that we considered that the european semester, which is the main economic policy dialogue with member states, is the most appropriate policy instrument for systematically engaging with the member states in this area of major common interest. in march 2018, the issue of corruption was included in 14 country reports. for several member states, the commission underlined the need to strengthen the effective investigation and prosecution of corruption and enhance prevention. other areas requiring improvement are whistle—blower protection, lobbying legislation, assets and interest disclosure and verifications, adequate resourcing for anti-corruption bodies, as well as transparency and public access to information. in the country—specific recommendations published on 23 may 2018, recommendations focusing on these aspects were proposed for six countries. facilitating experience-sharing among member states in the fight against corruption is a key aspect of anti-corruption efforts at eu level. in 2015 the commission launched the eu anti—corruption experience-sharing programme. it offers anti—corruption practitioners from member states a forum for exchanging views on topics of common interest and on legislative and institutional reforms and policy initiatives in other member states. these workshops cover topics such as corruption in the private sector, political immunities, public procurement at local level, asset disclosure, whistle—blower protection, corruption in health care, conflicts of interest, and measuring corruption and its economic and social impact. more than 300 experts have participated in the programme since 2015. these efforts go hand in hand with our legislative activity. the commission has taken action to ensure that anti-corruption provisions are an integral part of all relevant legislative instruments. such is the case for the recent initiative on the protection of whistle—blowers. adequate whistle—blowing mechanisms that codify processes within public administration to allow officials channels for reporting what they may perceive as irregularities or even illegal acts can help overcome detection problems inherent to corruption. the commission has also recently proposed a package of measures enabling the national competent authorities to access and exchange financial and other information in a timely manner. the measures aim to grant law enforcement authorities, asset recovery offices and anti-corruption authorities direct access to the information contained in the centralised bank account registers. the measures also aim at improving cooperation between law enforcement authorities and financial intelligence units (fius), as well as between fius. these recent initiatives complement other measures in areas ranging from public procurement and the protection of eu financial interests to asset recovery and anti-money laundering. the commission also provides financial support for a wide range of projects in the field of anti-corruption under a variety of financial instruments, for example in the internal security fund for police, european social and investment funds, horizon 2020 and hercule ii and iii programmes, to promote activities designed to boost eu action to prevent and combat fraud undermining the eu’s financial interests. the european institutions have put in place a comprehensive framework of rules on ethics and mechanisms to deter, investigate and punish misconduct, including corruption and associated wrongdoings. these rules are fully integrated inter alia in the staff regulations and the rules on financial management and internal control. they include enforcement mechanisms and proportionate, effective and dissuasive sanctions for possible breaches. transparency and accountability are key principles of the commission’s decision—making process. president juncker has established greater transparency as a top priority since the beginning of his mandate. as part of the commission’s commitment to transparency, the commissioners, their cabinet members and directors—general publish information on meetings held with organisations and self-employed individuals on the eu transparency register. furthermore, on 1 february 2018, a new code of conduct for commissioners entered into force, significantly enhancing the ethics framework at the political level. the modernised rules set new standards for ethics rules in europe, for example by extending the cooling—off period from 18 months to two years for former commissioners and to three years for the president of the commission. as regards the potential participation of the eu in the implementation review mechanism to the un convention against corruption (uncac), to which the eu is a party, the commission is now in the process of assessing the extent of the modifications of the union’s competence with regard to all the matters governed by the uncac after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, as well as the legal and institutional implications of this modification of competences. it is to be recalled that the eu is a unique regional economic integration organisation and, as such, this raises specific and complex legal and institutional questions.
the question we are discussing today deals with the fight against corruption, which is a real obstacle to economic growth in the european union. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. corruption is not only an offence against public administration but also an attack on the public and private economy, as it distorts free competition between businesses, degrades the quality of public services and unduly withdraws funds from the tax base. at european level, despite the recent adoption of important legislative measures such as the pif directive or the european public prosecutor's regulation, not enough has been done, even in terms of prevention, by de facto delegating the repression of the phenomenon to the criminal systems of the member states alone. the commission's failure to publish the second report on corruption has raised concern, particularly in view of the need to develop new measures in this area. among the most urgent measures, given that it has been established that there are some 3 600 criminal organisations operating in the union and that their illegal interference is seriously damaging to the economy, i would mention the development of a common definition of organised crime at european level, as well as the introduction of common rules for the protection of witnesses, informants and judicial assistants at european level. the union, in conclusion, must take a firm and authoritative stance in the fight against corruption to ensure that all member states have more effective anti-corruption policies, but also to make a careful assessment of the compliance of its institutions with the provisions of the un convention against corruption, which have not yet been fully implemented.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues which the commission must address and directions which it must give to the member states: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the merida convention of 2003 and to provide information on the implementation of the merida convention. but i will allow myself to point out an immediate way forward. the commissioner is aware of the fact, which has been repeatedly denounced by these banks, that in certain countries, such as my own, for example in the regions where the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, the camorra and the mafia organizations are most active, european funds have been the cash machine of criminal organizations, and this cannot have happened without very precise political complicity. it wants to open an ex post investigation to understand, also so that this is a lesson to the new member countries, with what infiltration capacity criminal organizations, through political connections and protections, also in the european institutions and perhaps even in parliament, have taken advantage of billions of italian and therefore european taxpayers to finance... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, corruption remains one of the most serious challenges facing europe, costing the european economy some 120 billion euros a year. although member states have taken a lot of action over the past four years, the results seem to be inconsistent and flawed, and much more should be done to prevent and punish corruption. the anti-corruption report that the commission published in 2014 could be a great tool to ensure the monitoring of the state of corruption in the european union. unfortunately, the commission has not considered it appropriate to follow up this initiative. we have therefore asked for a common definition of the crime of corruption, a horizontal definition of public officials and the most courageous legislative proposals in this area, but have not received a reply. finally, i believe that the protection of investigative journalists is still too weak, since they are a potentially devastating weapon for getting to the truth. as such, these journalists need to be better protected, as they represent a category at risk, as the murders of caruana galizia and jan kuciak have sadly already shown.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against organised crime and corruption cannot be effectively fought without adequate instruments at international level. at european level, we are moving too slowly and have difficulty adapting quickly to new technologies, which are being exploited by crime. the operational network for the exchange of information between law enforcement agencies should be implemented under the guidance of europol. the administrative, judicial and police cooperation throughout the union must be enhanced, aiming at an effective synergy between the european judicial network, europol and eurojust, and we will have to wait another three years to see what role the newly established european public prosecutor's office will be able to play. in this context, it therefore appears scandalous that the commission, despite the statement by commissioner timmermans in october 2016, is stopping the european union's report on the fight against corruption, the only tool capable of providing european citizens with a credible benchmarking and promoting high standards in the fight against corruption.
in writing. i am pleased that this question has come to the plenary, which reiterates what the european parliament has already denounced with the resolution on the fight against corruption of 25 october 2016, of which i was rapporteur. the reasons why the negotiations on accession to greco have been blocked, and the commission's decision not to submit the report on the fight against corruption, are not well understood. it is doubtful that the current leaders of the european institutions are very much interested in this subject. i would like to remind you, however, that the costs of corruption are very high and cannot be measured in economic terms alone. corruption undermines citizens' trust in democratic institutions and the rule of law and, by draining resources, has a negative impact on the quality of public services. corruption has even been denounced in the management of the migration crisis in the mediterranean, to the point of demanding authoritative and effective solutions to counter on the ground behaviour that has called into question the credibility of the reception policies, which have so far been supported, with a failed outcome, by the european union.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the unrelenting crackdown in bahrain is silencing the entire civil society, eliminating any possible form of opposition. the government's rudeness is such that it has twice refused to receive a delegation from the subcommittee on human rights of this parliament, the second time even withdrawing a previous formal invitation. this is a clear demonstration of bahrain's attitude towards human rights and those who dare even to mention them. the recent confirmation of nabeel rajab's conviction on appeal is just one of many proofs of the ferocious crackdown on any form of dissent, freedom of thought and information. nabeel rajab, a free and courageous man, stripped of all rights, left in inhuman conditions of detention and in poor health, is the symbol of the struggle against this repression. if we fail to defend the symbol of this struggle, if we leave only one man in that country who embodies the principles we claim to uphold, it will be human rights themselves that have failed in bahrain. nabeel rajab is to be released immediately and unconditionally.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even before our joint, or rather partially joint, resolution was publicly available, the bahraini ambassador, in contacting the members, made a sensational case for what my latin ancestors called excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. according to the documents sent, there is nothing but a lively political and cultural debate in the country, an independent and transparent judicial system and adequate human rights mechanisms, and nabeel rajab is doing very well and is rightly being tried, of course a trial with all the necessary guarantees. it is an interesting picture, but it is a pity that it does not correspond to reality, ladies and gentlemen, a reality which is very different and is constantly getting worse. the opposition groups al-wefaq and waad have been dissolved and their members will be barred from participating in elections. human rights defenders have been arrested, tortured and stripped of their citizenship, and independent newspapers have been shut down. nabeel rajab lost his appeal and is going to jail for tweeting. you got that right, folks, for tweets in 2018. i am sorry to see that some groups in this parliament seem to share more the positions of the bahraini authorities and have tabled an alternative resolution which is much softer than it should be. colleagues, words are no longer enough. we need action today. member states must suspend export licences for surveillance equipment, weapons and any other devices that could be used by the government for repression. if we really believe in all those values that we have spoken about so often in this house, now is the time to prove it. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, in line with what we have done over the years, we will also be sending the same message to our government. i remind you that the undersecretaries of the current executive were appointed the day before yesterday. so this government is now taking office and it will obviously be our duty and our will to carry this message and therefore demand that our country lead by example. but let us hope that the same will be true of all the other 27 member states, because otherwise, if only one of them does it and the others turn the other way, we are being played, as happens so often in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation of the rohingya in myanmar is one of the worst humanitarian crises we are witnessing today. once again, children are among the worst affected by what has been called, on several occasions, a veritable ethnic cleansing. according to unicef, last year 534,000 rohingya children were refugees in bangladesh, in dire sanitary conditions, exposed to the risk of violence, exploitation and abuse of all kinds. many rohingya children born in myanmar have never received any birth certificate, in complete contradiction to the un convention on the rights of the child, to which myanmar is also a signatory. the denial of civil rights to these children, which begins at birth, with very serious consequences, such as the impossibility of obtaining identity papers and of accessing health care or education, children who, in a word, we can call ghost children. the union must intervene in the relevant bodies, with a firm voice, to ensure that the rohingya have their fundamental and civil rights fully respected, with particular attention to children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, they blew up my son and cut him in half with a machete. this is the story of 19-year-old rohingya aisha, whose seven-year-old son was killed by burmese buddhist soldiers as she and her family fled their village in myanmar. but aisha and her baby are not the only ones in this situation, at least a thousand rohingya children under the age of five have been brutally killed since last august. twenty-eight thousand three hundred are children who have lost at least one parent. these innocent victims, who have arrived in the camps on the border with bangladesh, are at risk of daily sexual abuse by the same militias that killed their parents. even going to the bathroom or collecting firewood is not safe for them. add to this the lack of food and water, sanitation and monsoon-resistant housing, increasing the risk of epidemics and making malnourished children especially vulnerable. we therefore call on all relevant authorities to ensure that children and women are given safe spaces in refugee camps and that independent observers and the un fact-finding mission are allowed access to rakhine. i ask the europeans: how can we continue to cooperate with a regime responsible for apartheid?
mr president, the situation of the world’s most persecuted community is going way beyond any boundaries in a context of ethnic cleansing. in a situation of refugee camps where sexual violence and rape is prevalent, newborns are another extension of the rohingya crisis which accelerates the vicious cycle of the current nightmare. indeed, 10 months since military violence forced hundreds of thousands of rohingya to flee to bangladesh, about 60 babies are being born every day in squalid refugee camps with greater health risks. a refugee camp is no place for a child to be born. such camps have very poor sanitation and are a breeding ground for diseases like diphtheria, measles and cholera, to which newborns are particularly vulnerable. i strongly hope that the international criminal court’s chief prosecutor will confirm its jurisdiction over the crime of deportation of rohingya people from myanmar into bangladesh, as its prosecutor has requested.
in writing. in kachin state, northeast of burma, clashes have resumed between the tatmadaw, the powerful burmese army, and the kachin independence army (kia), the militia that for decades has safeguarded the identity, land and traditions of the majority christian population. to demand an end to what has now become a genocide of christians, as well as a forgotten humanitarian crisis, thousands of kachin catholics marched through the streets of myitkyina. the march was led by the city's bishop, francis daw tang. many human rights organizations have denounced the escalation of military operations by burmese troops against the groups that populate the country, which is happening, also thanks to the fact that international attention is focused on the muslim minority rohingya in rakhine state. how does the high representative intend to act to protect the christian minority in kachin? does he also intend to raise this situation with state councillor and former nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have received news that the us military ship trenton has rescued 41 people from a shipwreck off libya. i said, listen to me. it's a matter of life... (the president cut off the speaker)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 june 2018.
ladies and gentlemen, this year marks the centenary of the birth of nelson mandela. with his innate leadership and his constant personal example, the south african president has embodied the principles of freedom, equality, justice and reconciliation like few others in the world. these values, taken together, are the very essence of the european union and of this parliament, which awarded him the sakharov prize for freedom of thought in 1988. a fitting tribute to his long struggle to end apartheid and his commitment to equal rights. the republic of south africa will be organising a series of initiatives throughout the world to pass on to young people the memory of this great figure of the 20th century. the european parliament will participate in and contribute to this programme of celebrations. i take this opportunity to inform you that next week we will be hosting a concert in honour of nelson mandela in the yehudi menuhin space of the european parliament in brussels. this concert will be organized in conjunction with the south african mission. i shall be receiving mrs graça machel, wife of former president mandela, at the september plenary here in strasbourg. mrs machel has been working for many years on the front line for women's and children's rights through the graça machel trust, whose aim is, among other things, to promote and pass on the civil and moral legacy left by nelson mandela. i would also like to express, on behalf of parliament, our deep concern at the reports of the repeated attacks in recent months against the roma community in ukraine, including the brutal stabbing of a 24-year-old man in an attack that injured four other people, including a woman and a 10-year-old boy. we express our sincere condolences to the family and friends of the victim and wish a speedy recovery to all those who were injured. relations between the european union and ukraine are based on common values and the union attaches great importance to the rights of minorities. we will therefore continue to ask the ukrainian representation for information on what is happening and on the development of the situation.
the minutes of the sitting of 14 june were distributed. are there any comments? i have to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr keller, you will be aware that i spoke at length at the council meeting on the need to approve the dublin reform and the whole package on the reform of the right of asylum. i believe that the need to approve this reform was included in the final document precisely because i have insisted on it and many heads of state or government have spoken after my speech to stress the importance of the work done by parliament, which must be considered as a starting point for opening the debate. i do not think that a reform can be adopted unanimously, since the treaty stipulates that it must be adopted unanimously, because the treaty stipulates that it must be adopted by qualified majority, as i have said and repeated. but objectively speaking, i believe that the inclusion in the conclusions, unlike in the initial draft, which made no mention of the reform of the right of asylum and dublin, was due to the action of the european parliament. however, i will reiterate this position before the debate in this house, reminding president tusk of the position of parliament, and i will also reiterate it in the meetings of the coming days: i would like to point out that i had already sent the letter before the council. as those present here have confirmed, there has never been such an intense debate since my report, for ten years now, that is, since the president of parliament has attended council meetings. so i think the message from the european parliament has been strong and clear on this subject, as on all the other subjects - i am thinking of the subject of own resources - agreed at the meetings with the conference of presidents and the contact group on the next community budget. anyway , thanks for the support . i will continue to support and reiterate the position of the european parliament, and i repeat, even before the debate with the council begins, before president tusk speaks.
mr. gollnisch, i understand what you're saying. we'll check what happened. sir, i've answered your question. i'll check what happened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to inform you and this house that yesterday, for the fourth time, for the fourth consecutive year, the city of istanbul banned the city's gay pride event: for the fourth year in a row. two years ago, my colleague terry reintke and i went there and we were charged by the police, and we were stopped. but yesterday the mark was crossed, because rubber bullets were fired at the protesters to clear the protesters. i think it is intolerable to have relations with a country where erdogan is reaching this level of aggressiveness towards the civic opposition: i ask this house to express solidarity with the demonstrators who were so badly treated yesterday and i ask for a strong condemnation of this attitude of erdogan, who can no longer stand any opposition and who arrests opponents, judges, trade unionists and any other kind of opposition in his country. we can't take it anymore!
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers in the event of accidents at work.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on wednesday 27 june 2018. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments: (no amendments were tabled for monday) following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: the title of the debate on 'moldova' will be changed to 'the political crisis in moldova following the annulment of the election of the mayor of chisinau'. (the amendment was approved) wednesday i received from the efdd group a motion for a resolution opposing a commission delegated decision granting the european investment bank a union guarantee in the event of losses relating to financing operations in support of investment projects outside the union, as regards iran. in accordance with rule 105 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure, this resolution will be put to the vote during the votes on wednesday. let us now turn to the demands of the political groups. the s&d group called for the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo to be amended as follows: 'the situation in the democratic republic of congo, in particular the ebola epidemic.'
i have received a request from the enf group to include as the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey.
i have also received a request from the green group to put a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on autonomous weapons systems as the third item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon.
i am not going to go into the details of the amendments. wednesdayi received a request from the gue/ngl, ecr and ppe groups to vote on the three reports in the 'mobility package' in the following order: kyllönen, van de camp and ertug. they are all here. the alde group supports this proposal.
i have already received the first response to mr gollnisch's request. the administration is recovering the sum, as decided by the bureau which confirmed the quaestors' proposal. this decision was confirmed by the decision of the court of justice of the european union of 19 june 2018. at that time, that is to say at the beginning of the matter, mr gollnisch was invited to submit his observations in writing. so everything that happened happened in a regular way.
mr. martin, the dialogue with the interpreters continues at every level. tomorrow afternoon i shall meet the chairman of the inter-union committee, the chairman of the delegation of interpreters and the chairman of the staff committee. the next wednesday will be an extraordinary meeting of the bureau to hear the interpreters' views. in parallel, the intensive dialogue between the secretary-general and the staff committee, which was launched in october last year in coordination with the vice-president, mr paşcu, responsible for multilingualism, is continuing. the directorate-general for personnel has launched a consultation on the rules on working conditions, which will end on 18 july. i hope therefore that a solution will be found before the summer.
the agenda calls for the report by ms françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european defence industrial development programme to support the competitiveness and innovation capacity of the european defence industry (com (2017) 0294 - c8-0180/2017 - 2017/0125 (cod)) (a8-0037/2018)
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate the agreement reached in the trilogue on the modernisation and improvement of the european framework for the collection of integrated farm statistics. issues such as gender and labour structure, young farmers and rural depopulation, land concentration and increased pressure from urbanisation and certainly greening, land use, land use change and forestry are just a few examples of areas where the production of reliable statistics is essential for making informed decisions in policy making. with these new rules we will finally have better statistics for the implementation and monitoring of the common agricultural policy without the additional burden of data collection. those rules address in particular the shortcomings identified in the evaluation of the european system of agricultural statistics by streamlining and updating the collection of statistics at farm level within a single framework and allowing for greater flexibility for the rapid introduction of new data collections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the diversity of the union and the profound changes to the common agricultural policy over the last ten years have shown the need to harmonise our agricultural statistics system at european level, making it more flexible and remedying the shortcomings and rigidities of the current legislation. the regulation we are about to vote on will therefore, with a view to modernising and simplifying it, ensure a significant reduction in the bureaucratic burden on both the administrations and, in particular, our farmers, while maintaining, as our rapporteur fortunately hopes, a common standard, high standards and protection of personal data. we must continue along this path, mr commissioner, especially in view of the discussions on the reform of the common agricultural policy which lie ahead of us, and we cannot allow european farmers to be forced to live with different agricultural policies between countries, or even between regions, risking the risk of losing that common vision for our agricultural sector altogether.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, berta cáceres was assassinated in 2016 for leading her community in the fight against the construction of a hydroelectric complex in northwestern honduras. the project, approved without the consent of the community itself, was supposed to be built on the gualcarque river, a sacred river of the lenca people, which is a vital water source for about 600 families living in the rainforest. two years after that heinous murder, cases of violence, murder and indiscriminate evictions of entire indigenous communities continue, in total violation of international instruments to protect these peoples. and in the defence of environmental rights, as in the defence of human rights, the most exposed are women who, for this reason, too often, are victims of sexual violence, harassment, extortion and smear campaigns. in the face of such serious human rights violations, the european union must first encourage all member states and third countries to ratify the convention on indigenous and tribal peoples, which enshrines the right of indigenous peoples to be consulted when launching development projects that have an impact on their territories. it is also essential that the european union, in its foreign policy, takes account of the situation of indigenous peoples' rights in the negotiation of trade and cooperation agreements, just as it is essential that the union invests in campaigns to raise public awareness, outside and within the european union, of the issue of land rights and the role that indigenous peoples play in protecting biodiversity and the environment. finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr assis, for his work on this report which is so important for the european union and for the environment in general.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr assis, for the excellent work he has done. the history of indigenous peoples is a centuries-old history stained with blood and riddled with injustice, abuse, genocide and forced expropriation of their ancestral lands. indigenous peoples have a unique relationship with the land and the environment in which they live: for these people, the land is life, and their close relationship to it and its resources transcends the concept of property in western societies. the devastating consequences of land loss for indigenous peoples is a crime against humanity that is perpetuated under the eyes of national institutions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community. this assembly in october 2016 had voted by a very large majority a resolution to my signature, on the subject of human rights violations by multinational corporations. we proposed a number of very concrete measures in this area too, but after almost two years and countless appeals, the european commission - and i am addressing the commissioner here - continues to stand by while the multinationals continue to enrich themselves at the expense of the environment and the fundamental rights of these ancestral peoples.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the femm committee, which i represent today as rapporteur for an opinion, has already made several efforts to stop the breakdown of forced marriages, in particular child marriages, which affect all countries in the world, including the member states of the union. when i heard of the decision of the afet committee to propose a resolution to the commission to highlight the problem, i was pleased to know that our requests, as the femm committee, had finally been heard. we are no longer alone in fighting this violation of human rights, as is also clear from the resolution which has been tabled in this house. in fact, a recent unicef report found that if the numbers continue to rise at the current rate, we could have 1.2 billion child marriages worldwide by 2050. the same report shows that child marriages have a permanent negative impact on the physical and mental health of the victims, who are, let us remember, only girls. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against child marriage and for the eu to play a more active role in the fight against child marriage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, early and forced child marriages are one of the most serious violations of human rights and often cause long-term damage to the physical and mental health of the victims of this practice. the phenomenon, sanctioned by the istanbul convention, affects not only third countries but is also on the increase in europe: according to unicef, 750 million women worldwide are married before the age of 18. the european union cannot remain indifferent to this practice, which still deprives too many girls of the essential rights of childhood and of a serene psychophysical development. in the meantime, to put an end to this phenomenon, both within and outside the union, it is necessary to establish uniformly in the member states the minimum age for marriage at 18 and to adopt administrative, legal and financial measures to ensure its effective application. but to eradicate the root causes of this phenomenon in third countries, investment in awareness-raising, education and gender equality is also needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of child brides is still a scourge that transcends countries, cultures and religions. a drama that always has a common denominator, rooted in poverty, gender inequality, lack of education, social and economic opportunities. forced and early child marriage never offers protection to children who are forced into it: on the contrary, it constitutes a serious violation of human rights, in particular women's rights. we, the european union, as the main actor in the global development of human rights, must play a leading role in eliminating this unprecedented form of violence against women. we are therefore working to create a space for respectful dialogue with community leaders in third countries, to promote cross-cutting and governmental legal, social and diplomatic action aimed at preventing forced marriages. we are demonstrating our leadership in promoting women's rights and human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we hear about forced marriages, we are led to believe that they are something remote in time and space. sadly, this is a more topical problem than ever. what is more sad is that this is a very serious violation of human rights which sometimes takes place right before our eyes here in europe. some newspapers, for example, reported that it was also in one of the cities where i grew up, palermo, where teenage girls between the ages of 13 and 17, mainly from bangladesh, pakistan, india and sri lanka, were literally disappearing from school, overnight, to be sent back by their families to their home countries, and there to marry the man who had been dumped for them and whom they had never seen. this shows that the fight against forced marriages must be fought on all fronts, within and outside the european territory, and by the institutions at all levels, starting with those who negotiate trade treaties with these countries, and it is their duty to make any benefit conditional on the achievement of minimum standards in this very important area.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when you start reading the text of this resolution, you immediately see a number of high-profile names: the un agenda on sustainable development, the kyoto protocol, the paris agreement on climate change: all big names for one big failure. we believe that these names should be changed; maybe we should just admit that there's a big problem, and that's that climate change is dependent on the exploitation and consumption of fossil resources, fossil fuels. oil, gas and coal. and not just from climate change, but also from the political instability of african countries, their poverty and therefore the migration flows and therefore also the thousands of premature deaths. so if we really want to fight climate change, let's stop being the virtuosos in europe and then the colonialists in africa. if we really want to fight global warming, let's stop countries like france from exploiting africa's resources because we're all going to pay the price.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the historical responsibility for climate change and the damage it causes lies squarely with the major emitters: asia, north america and europe are the most industrialized regions of the world, and these are the areas that actually drive the development of the poorest countries as well. once again, trump's decision to withdraw the world's largest emitter from international commitments is stigmatized, and we know that climate change, in addition to the environment, also affects social injustice, migration, famine, disease and poverty. the union's leadership led to the signing of the paris agreement, but the global transition to a net-zero carbon, climate-resilient economy requires significant investment, which even europe does not always seem willing to make. instead, we need to invest decisively and without hesitation in the sustainable economy, strengthening our environmental leadership and forcing other economies to do the same so that we are not cut off.
the 73rd session of the un general assembly opens in a world that has changed and is characterized by great uncertainty. the conflicts in several countries and the phenomenon of migration are causing enormous destabilisation almost all over the planet, putting a strain on established democratic institutions, peace and human rights. the task of the nations should therefore be to strengthen the role of the un, not to undermine it by returning to shortsighted national sovereignty or absurd vetoes. we have already seen how much damage has been done when international economic institutions have been driven primarily by selfish commercial and financial interests. the united states has announced its withdrawal from the human rights council, a wrong decision because it will be impossible to face global challenges by avoiding the necessary and indispensable joint and shared action that only the un can guarantee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these days in vercelli we are witnessing yet another case of predatory globalisation, permitted by the rules of the internal market and supported by a europe which can only turn its head the other way. the swedish multinational perstorp had acquired the italian polioli a year ago, promising to maintain production and jobs: but now he's announced the irrevocable closure of polioli on july 31st. it is clear that perstorp's interest was never to keep production in italy but to acquire know-how and above all polioli's customer portfolio, and then to close and abandon the seventy-two employees to their fate, insulting them with the mockery of a ridiculously good output of only one thousand euros. there may be nothing illegal about this, but there should be, because the swedes' behaviour is morally reprehensible. europe must legislate on corporate social responsibility as soon as possible and prevent such predatory behaviour.
i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate, nor will there be any blue-card questions. before i give the floor to the bulgarian prime minister, mr boyko borisov, i would like to thank the bulgarian presidency for the fruitful cooperation it has had with the european parliament. i thank the representatives of the bulgarian government who have taken turns in this house. we signed a lot of laws together. it was a fruitful presidency and i also recall the initiative on the western balkans, to which the european parliament attaches great importance. i also recall the efforts made by the bulgarian presidency to try to resolve the problem of asylum reform, which remains a priority for us, and i ask bojko borisov, as head of government, to continue to support the european parliament's initiatives at the next council meetings. (the sitting was suspended for technical reasons relating to the strike by the interpreters.)
we can resume the session; i would like to apologize to prime minister borisov for this interruption, which is too long for me, caused by the attitude of some members who prevented the technicians from restoring the audio service, because they wanted to show solidarity with the interpreters and therefore prevented the technicians from entering the room, playing the role of trade unionists. but the negotiation is between interpreters and administration, so it was not their place to intervene. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht.
before i give the floor to jean-claude juncker, i must inform you that all the work today will be delayed by half an hour because of the shutdown of the electrical repair services caused by some of our colleagues who prevented the services from repairing the equipment. we shall therefore be forced to postpone everything by half an hour, so that the vote will also take place at 12.30 p.m.
i agree with you because it is unacceptable for members to block the work of parliament.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the council and the commission on the presentation of the austrian presidency's work programme ((2018/2593 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome the chancellor, sebastian kurz.
thank you, mr chancellor. the protection of the external borders is also very important to the european parliament and it is important that during your presidency an agreement can be reached on the reform of the asylum package, which is a priority for the parliament, since a text has already been adopted as a result of the reworking of the european commission's proposal. we would therefore be grateful if the austrian presidency could help to bring about this reform.
i would ask the honourable members to respect the speaking time allocated to them. i'm flexible but you can't push yourself beyond a certain point. i am not just referring to you, mr verhofstadt. mr. trebesius also spoke more than expected. i therefore ask you to respect the deadlines so that the other members do not protest and do not exploit the excessive length of your speech to start a political debate.
i would remind the speakers speaking on behalf of the groups that if they prolong their speeches, they are taking away the catcher's eye. so shut your colleagues up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the austrian government's choice to concentrate its efforts on a europe which protects is an extremely ambitious one. but i would like to remind you that the practical value of the concept of protection takes different forms and dimensions depending on the real needs of the recipient. the protection required by our small and mediumsized enterprises is very different from that required by our fellow citizens living in slums, and the protection required by our young people seeking work is different from that required by those seeking social support against sickness or old age. this presidency can only claim to have contributed to the process of european unification if it has been able to activate protection without discrimination. in other words, whether the ability to protect will benefit, albeit in different ways, all citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, chancellor kurz, the motto of the austrian presidency for the six-month period is 'a europe that protects'. good, but protect from what exactly? because, ladies and gentlemen, the feeling is that we must protect ourselves here from europe and, in particular, from its sad selfishness. and we have seen where the selfishness of the member states leads us in the management of migration flows, a great and now classic example of european failure. but i would point out to you, mr president, that in the 70 pages of the programme document of your austrian presidency, the word 'solidarity' is never mentioned. i hope this is just a misunderstanding. i 'm telling you straight up: do not make the mistake of thinking that you have left the countries of first arrival alone. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. the commitments made at the last european council, thanks to the skillful work of an italian government which is now finally attentive and competent, must be respected and carried forward. shared action between member states and reform of the dublin regulation, based on a balance between responsibility and solidarity, are just some of these commitments and on this, if you remember, we will not back down an inch. we do, however, welcome the commitments on competitiveness, digitalisation, the fight against terrorism and organised crime. but let me finish on the subject of work: you wrote that we must ensure fair working conditions for all. the italian government just yesterday launched a measure of the ministry of labour with a very precise name, "dignity decree", to combat, among other things, the precariat. europe too must not forget this social scourge and start giving citizens their rights back. a europe which protects against precariousness, austerity and unemployment would be a great achievement for his presidency. i wish you a good job.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, chancellor, i would first of all like to remind you that everyone has spoken about the issue of migrants, and you have told us that you want to resolve it by means of a vote on dublin, and that a reform of dublin is only possible if you agree to vote by a majority and not by unanimity, as you have promised to do. secondly, you are trying to complete the multiannual financial framework. how do you propose to reconcile the new issues - defence, security, migrants, the new resources for the development of africa, which you have mentioned - with the traditional policies of the european union which produce cohesion without an increase in resources? i would like to hear from you how you intend to reconcile the two and find a solution. thirdly, i would like to ask you a question. she comes, like me, from a mountain region, in her case, from a mountain country. we shall be voting on a resolution on rural and mountain areas at the next partsession, at the beginning of september, and on an agenda for sparsely populated areas with structural problems: do you think you can commit yourself to getting this agenda started and, if possible, finalised before the next programming period? you want to try?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr chancellor, we thank you for this wide-ranging speech and we warmly welcome the austrian presidency, which is certainly managing a moment of crucial choices for the whole of europe. we very much like the motto you have chosen, 'europe that protects': the commission's proposal is extremely timely and responds to the priority needs of our citizens. the fight against illegal immigration, the protection of external borders, as well as the commitment to create development in africa, prospects for the young people of that continent, are all priorities, especially for my country, which is italy. italy must no longer suffer the loneliness it has suffered in recent years; italy cannot become the migrant ghetto that it would be if this loneliness continued. but that is why we are concerned about what has already been mentioned, the decision to change dublin unanimously. i would like to know what you think. i have a question for you too: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he does not think that, in addition to the means that president juncker has mentioned for frontex, we should also rethink the political mandate of this agency? and to those who still today accuse us in this chamber of nationalism, i would like to reply with the words of john paul ii about the fatherland, "when i think of the fatherland i express myself; "is the voice of the heart, "the secret frontier that from me reaches out to others, "to embrace them all, dear gentlemen, the country is love, not only for our citizens but also for others. you are the haters!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is always great expectation at the beginning of each presidency, especially if the stakes are an issue on the council's agenda since 2015: the immigration. so, in recent years, we've heard all kinds of things about how to deal with migration. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we thought we had reached the limit of decency, but only a week ago we saw yet another decision that once and for all undermines the principle of solidarity by making it flexible, and the amendment of the dublin regulation, which was poorly put aside and which enshrines the principle of the country of first arrival. whoever comes to italy stays in italy. your motto is 'europe that protects'. here, protect us from those who foment hatred and unjustified fear and show us that you protect every individual, regardless of legal status. people first. we want a europe of solidarity, inclusion, welcoming and not afraid to open up to the outside. we want a multicultural europe.
thank you, mr chancellor. i too appreciated his words about the need not to have closed internal borders but to focus on defending europe's external borders. i think that is a very positive message from the austrian presidency. on this issue, as on the reform of the right of asylum, it will have the full support of the european parliament. i wish you a good job. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, (opening speech without microphone) ... and then the universal rights of man. from the outset, cities have therefore been the most important and innovative political laboratory in europe and have now once again assumed an essential role as a bulwark of rights, with the crisis of the nation states and the decline of our democracies, threatened on the one hand by the loss of popular sovereignty imposed by an oligarchic model of the union and on the other by the advance of reactionary and closed-off tendencies. we voted in favour of this report because it is a first step towards recognising the networks of european cities, the role they deserve and the possible creative role they can play in bringing citizens closer to our institutions.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 28 and 29 june (2018/2591 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome president tusk, but before i give him the floor, i would like to reiterate, as i did this morning, at the beginning and after the speech by the austrian chancellor, mr kurz, on behalf of parliament, our strong determination to ask the council to approve the reform of the right of asylum as a single package, i.e. the seven points, including the reform of the dublin regulation. the european parliament has long since completed its work and can only reiterate, as it did at the council meeting, the vital importance of solving this problem. the european parliament's proposal is a complex proposal, which also provides for a transitional period, so that there is a great deal of availability in countries that are not accustomed to the arrival of immigrants, especially from the continent of africa, and our text, which was approved by a very large majority, can be a good starting point. we are pleased that the document adopted by the council concludes with the will to proceed with the reform. i would remind you that the treaty does not require unanimity for the adoption of this reform, but a qualified majority is sufficient. so, if you want to, the goal can be achieved. i therefore address the appeal i made to the austrian chancellor to the president of the council, mr donald tusk, whom i thank again for his presence.
i would also like to inform my colleagues that in my speech to the council i stressed the importance of the own resources issue for the european parliament with regard to the next multiannual financial framework. i am therefore pleased that president tusk has stressed in his speech the importance of the same subject for the council. i also thank president juncker for emphasizing this at his press conference this morning: 500 million is not enough, we need more. i shall be going to niger and soon to libya to try to make a contribution to the development of democracy on behalf of the european parliament.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
not with european glasses, but with african glasses. tomorrow, in plenary, we will be receiving the president of angola, mr joão manuel gonçalves lourenço, who will be addressing the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i read the first statements by the participants at the end of the european council a few days ago, i was very pleased. i read the statement of the president of the council of my country, who was enthusiastic. then, as i continued to read the agencies, i read orban's, and he was enthusiastic. and then i read macron's, and she was thrilled. there i realized that something was wrong, that things could not have gone well; so much so, that the moment i read the document, i realized that it didn't change anything: because it's the truth. the glass is half full or half empty, mr juncker, but unfortunately it is half full only because we have avoided a resounding breakdown, not because we have achieved results. and i am not addressing the president of the commission so much as the president of the council, because the real problem is there, the real problem from which we cannot get out is the council's inability to find a solution. i have followed and fully share the position, action and role that president tajani has taken on behalf of this parliament with regard to the initiatives that have been taken on the need to be able to intervene on the migration front by giving clear and precise answers. but while rescues under international law remain as they were, reception centres are exclusively on a voluntary basis, redistribution is a topic that cannot be discussed, it is clear that the 2020 target is a target that is not good, because in 2020, from now to 2020, although the migratory flows are also decreasing at this stage, however, in some countries there is a risk of establishing a situation that is unacceptable from all points of view, which feeds an anti-european climate towards these institutions that is no longer manageable. that's the truth. the institutions have a duty to deal with this situation and the european council, if the statements and comments made this morning are true, should give answers. in conclusion, i should like to add that i listened very carefully to chancellor kurz this morning; i have heard a very positive speech for your country, because the statements regarding the relationship with germany, the possible decisions to be transposed to the border in the relationship and in the opposition with germany are clear: the internal policy choices are clear. the positions announced in advance on the general agreement on immigration are, on the other hand, very, very general, because there is no framework for a precise objective, in which there is no courage and strength, from the point of view of managing this situation, to be able to say clearly that we are leaving national egoism to manage a clearer, broader vision of this intervention. that is the situation we are facing and that is why the position on the council's work and the document it has adopted is absolutely negative.
i would like to say that the european council has achieved one thing, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and that is to create a rare atmosphere of sharing the same feeling, as it is today, of utter disappointment, between various political groups. the council has not concluded anything unless it approves what is happening, pretending not to know that the worst is happening. the peoples of europe have witnessed this theatre of good and bad, where on the one hand there was the openly xenophobic rhetoric of certain governments, such as my own, the italian government, and on the other hand the less crude but equally ignoble and very hypocritical rhetoric of governments such as the french government, which, after having put the migration issue on the shoulders of the countries of southern europe, now wants to give these countries a moral lesson at no cost. so i am not talking about how much has been decided, because nothing has been decided, but how much has not even been discussed. president tusk says europe has no intention of abandoning africa: africa has already abandoned her! i would like to know where and when the real causes of mass migration, which european citizens know nothing about, were discussed. who is talking here about the war in south sudan, the 300,000 dead and millions of displaced people, the civil wars in somalia, eritrea, chad, mali, the central african republic, which are a big deal for european arms dealers? who speaks of the tens, soon hundreds of millions of africans fleeing desertification, climate change, the theft of land and water by corporations? establishment and anti-establishment parties pretend to be divided: they're actually complicit in this silence. it is in the interests of some to conceal their complicity in the hyper-liberal exploitation of africa and its further reduction to a state of slavery, while others are happy to cash in on easy votes based on misinformation, hatred and fear. the important thing is that the peoples of europe know the facts and do not consider as solutions, what? the witch-hunt against the ngos, who are wrong to be where the european union should be and are not and are becoming less and less. or would it be a solution to continue to finance real camps in turkey and libya? these are not solutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last european council, which devoted a great deal of attention to the question of migration, tensions between all the member states were high on a subject which is extremely important for the future of the european union itself. on the one hand we have the eastern bloc countries, which follow the well-known policy of walls in terms of reception, and on the other hand we have seen the attempt by the franco-german axis to present a pre-packaged proposal at the pre-summit meeting on 24 june and thus impose on italy a fate with which italy obviously did not agree. the novelty of this european council was italy, which rebelled and showed that it did not want to be seen as a puppet and above all it rebelled against the fact that it wanted to be seen as the only place where all the migrants rescued as a result of search and rescue operations could land and then take on all the burdens arising from the failed dublin regulation. for the first time in the european council, and therefore thanks to the action of this government, it is stated that the disembarkation of those who are rescued as a result of search and rescue operations, which, as i have always stressed, are morally, rather than legally, necessary, must be based on joint and complementary actions between the member states. the basis has also been laid for a system of legal access to the european union, which i believe is essential. the need for a reform of the dublin regulation, which includes responsibility and solidarity and also takes account of landings, was reiterated. the urgency of a partnership with africa was also reiterated. so, obviously, the game is still open: there is still a lot of work to be done, especially with regard to the common european asylum system, which concerns not only dublin but also the procedural regulation. it is on this basis, and therefore with a lot of work still to be done, that it will be shown that there is still a european project based on cooperation and solidarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it says here 5 million and it is not a number: 5 million is people, they are women, mothers, fathers, children! 5 million poor italians who cannot pay their bills or who have no home or no job or who do not even have the possibility of getting treatment. and this europe does not provide answers to these needs, to these problems, but rather makes their situation worse. all the peoples of europe, not just the italian people, are now shouting at this europe: change, change, change! i'm not going to change! but behind these cries of hope from the citizens, there are still some "euro-fools" who ask why; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the european union is a europe which has, in recent years, madly overwhelmed the five million poor italians with a mad and criminal invasion of hospitality. but we say to president juncker: the party's over! the italians trust not this europe but the league and matteo salvini!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i finally see the light at the end of the tunnel of unbridled immigration. there must be a concrete response, based on action and not on promises. the conclusions of the european council of 28 june contain many ifs and many buts. we need certainty. the text we have before us shows that this europe now recognizes and defends the frontiers of the member states, as we have always called for. it must be clear to everyone that stopping this human trafficking means striking at the traffickers and at the parasitic system that lives on the backs of these poor wretches. in this connection i would like to quote a great italian political scientist, gianfranco miglio, who said: "the degree of political civilization in a country depends on how well it manages to limit the number and presence of parasites". parasites are in society as they are on animals: those of you who have a dog or a cat know that parasites grow and the animal dies. and a company dies. there are historical examples of societies that have disappeared because of excessive parasitism. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not just the european parliament that has been a party to it. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the summit was a great success of national egos: the european parliament has won an idea of a europe of barbed wire, not of citizens or of those still drowning in the mediterranean. the result: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is not only the european parliament that has been a great help to the people of europe, but also the european parliament. dublin is left to the fate of consensus and this would be the great result of the italian government's innovation: i say to my colleagues at five star and the league, you settle for very, very little. the conclusions say that illegal border crossings have decreased by 95%: so this is the certification that we are not living through a migration emergency but a political emergency of our own! we must talk about the political crisis in europe more than the migration crisis. but that's the paradox! my country, italy, which is the one that now needs more than anyone not to be left alone, is allied with the enemies of solidarity; the european parliament has been playing the game of those who do not want a single refugee and, in order to strike a blow at europe, it is going against italian interests in order to defend those of hungary or other countries. a masterpiece of self-harm!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have missed a historic opportunity. you have only agreed to the externalization of borders, which violates rights elsewhere and opens up more dangerous routes. and also about the attack on ngos: you tell them not to obstruct the libyan coastguard, and yet people die at sea by the hundreds. and you governments, in your complicit indifference, as you close the gates and the ports, are responsible for these deaths. there's no sign of what it really takes: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the european union, and whether it is not in the process of adopting a decision on the matter. and within hours of the agreement, you were already arguing over interpretation: it's an indecent spectacle, you're not worthy of your role! so the nationalists win by feeding on your inertia but lose the union. but the battle is not over: you have not listened to the two thirds of parliament who are calling for ambitious reform of dublin. you haven't heard the mobilization of thousands of people in 170 squares; but we will continue to press for european solidarity until you realise that without it the union and its future are at stake. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i speak on behalf of the european parliament because the european parliament voted by a large majority for a dublin reform which ensures that each government does its part in welcoming people. we are not facing an invasion. you are lying to the european citizens. the numbers, with solutions shared by all the member states, such as those which this parliament has called for by a large majority, can absolutely be tackled with sustainable solutions and which can also bring important benefits to our local communities. you are lying to the european citizens!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate your optimism, mr tusk, but it is clear that the conclusions of the euro summit are inadequate to the task of reforming and strengthening economic and monetary union. as you yourself have acknowledged there is only one decision: the esm will provide the backstop for the resolution fund and even on the concrete terms of this positive choice there are still no clear indications! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the budget for the euro area, which is already the subject of a legislative proposal from the commission, cannot even be mentioned by the heads of state or government, and we are relying on a twisted game of cryptic references to all the elements of a letter to the president of the eurogroup, who in turn asked the european council for guidance on this point. our position on the merits is well known. here we just say: the european treaties are respected; the commission's legislative proposals are dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure and this parliament is respected, which cannot be told to 'take it or leave it' on the basis of a general approach of the council.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i am convinced that defending the rights of workers means not only ensuring them adequate economic conditions but above all satisfactory working and personal living conditions. the work of the tran committee was based on this principle: we have tried to take a step forward from the present situation, which i consider to be unworthy of drivers, who are forced to rest on the roadside for months in precarious conditions. i also believe, as the empl committee also believes, that it is important to stress the substantial difference between the transport of goods and the transport of passengers: the latter should enjoy greater flexibility, precisely because of its characteristics, especially in the tourism sector. i believe that the rules must be changed: the idea of maintaining the status quo cannot be considered a victory by those who claim to have the interests of working people at heart. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i did not speak of competitiveness between member states. i have spoken precisely about workers' rights and i think that workers' rights are not sufficiently guaranteed today and neither, i must say, is safety. the colleague said earlier that, as she was walking with the drivers, she realized that there were rules that were not being followed. so if we think that this situation is sufficient for us today, we are unfortunately making a serious mistake and i think that the immediate application of the tachograph can also be useful in overcoming this situation which today, i believe, not only as a group but as members, we must consider to be overcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 'mobility' package gives the impression of a europe without a future, divided and deaf to the demands for fairness and help from thousands of entrepreneurs and workers in the freight transport sector. the tran committee voted against extending the principle of equal pay for equal work in road cabotage to international transport, which would remain fully subject to the wages of the country where the driver is employed, thus encouraging social dumping and unfair competition between companies. the rules on rest periods for drivers, their return to their home or to another place of their choice at least once every three weeks, cannot be considered sufficiently stringent either. the mobility package, by reducing rest periods, actually increases the driving times of long-distance truck and bus drivers and worsens the conditions of transnational posting. the dramatic impact that the package could have on road safety in real life is therefore clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the european parliament will have a historic opportunity to determine the fate of european road transport. the stakes are obviously very high: we are talking about the unacceptable conditions under which european road hauliers are forced to work, spending their whole lives in a lorry, far from home. thousands of people are forced to eat, sleep and live in a vehicle on a continuous journey across europe, without the possibility of planning their personal lives outside of their work. it's a modern day slavery. i wonder how it is possible that the house is even divided and fails to stand united in defence of the industry and against social dumping and against the continuing unfair competition which is forcing more and more companies to close down. tomorrow this house will have a unique opportunity to restore the dignity of the road transport profession. if not, the memory of this failure will remain etched in the memory of this parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too was part of the mission to the border between colombia and venezuela last week, where we went to see that if there is a lack of food, if there is a lack of basic medicines, we are not talking about ideological or political positions but about a humanitarian crisis and a humanitarian crisis goes beyond any ideological position. now, we have had seven resolutions and the consequence has been a hardening of the venezuelan government and a worsening of the living conditions of the venezuelan people. now, with this resolution, it is hoped that we can really succeed in opening up a little dialogue that will at least bring the humanitarian aid that the venezuelan people need at this moment. that is the hope we have in this resolution.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank our colleagues for their interventions. i think all of us saw that the vast majority of members of this parliament share the same concerns, the same assessment, about the political crisis and humanitarian crisis in venezuela. as i said in my first intervention, i saw the situation, i assessed the situation on the ground when i visited cucuta and other areas in colombia. i know well from the great deal of information from our partners on the ground that they are trying behind the scenes to provide the children in venezuela with medicines and vaccines. i can promise you, as commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid, that we will continue to provide, regardless of any obstacles and barriers, humanitarian assistance, specifically medicines, in venezuela to prevent any medical problems for the children of venezuela. this is my personal promise. we will, of course, continue to use all our instruments and means to accompany the country towards a peaceful, negotiated solution. it is a difficult journey but it is the only way that can foster a peaceful, democratic and lasting solution for the country. we will also continue to reinforce our support to the population in order to alleviate their most pressing needs and provide assistance to neighbouring countries which have to cope with increasing numbers of venezuelans fleeing their country. may i close by signalling once again our appreciation of this parliament’s role in keeping this urgent issue on the european and international agenda.
in writing. the protracted political, social and economic crisis in venezuela has triggered the largest mass migration in latin american history since the continent's discovery. according to recent estimates, some two million venezuelans have left the country to escape food and medicine shortages, unemployment, rampant crime, and repression by an increasingly authoritarian government. the scale of the phenomenon is such as to produce destabilising effects and strong social tensions even in neighbouring countries; i am thinking particularly of colombia, but also of brazil, guyana and ecuador. in the face of this unprecedented humanitarian crisis, it is imperative that the european union intervene by providing additional aid to support neighbouring countries in coping with the enormous humanitarian effort needed to ensure the reception of all refugees. but to tackle the root causes of the phenomenon, the european union will need to step up its international mediation efforts with the venezuelan government to end the violation of human rights and restore democracy, which is an essential prerequisite for stopping the escalation of the crisis and for holding new presidential elections in accordance with the internationally recognised principles enshrined in the venezuelan constitutional charter.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to point out that the democratic republic of congo has declared this new epidemic, with 55 cases so far and 29 deaths, so far from negligible, as early as 8 may this year. we are therefore leaving aside the fact that i myself have called for an urgent debate since last plenary session, but obviously if the request is from a populist it is not even worth considering. the fact is, we lost a month. i would not underestimate the issue, as you probably are doing here, because the problem is that there are more epicenters located in remote rural areas but close to the congo river, which, as you know, feeds both the central african republic and the republic of congo. so the risk of the disease spreading quickly is very high. yet, according to the world health organization, there is a vaccine, zebov, that is 100 percent effective and should be used first in an emergency. commissioner, can you explain why you're waiting for an outbreak before you start ring vaccination? can you explain why a vaccine that's been declared safe and 100% effective isn't being distributed now?
madam president, commissioner, the return of the ebola virus to the democratic republic of congo (drc) has reinforced the sense of doom that weighs on the country like a sword of damocles. we are tired of singing the rosary of the ills that are eating away at the drc and foreshadowing an apocalyptic aftermath. if it had not been for the help of who, we would have had several victims of the epidemic, due to the late intervention of the health authorities. the return of the ebola virus is a sign of a poor prevention policy, an indication of the failure of the congolese state. the problems facing the drc are political, as we were reminded by the patriotic and republican citizens we received today. they were carrying a memorandum whose contents we share. we must support them in their struggle to restore the rule of law in the drc through free and credible elections, without kabila, and for the good of the congolese people.
i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the schengen agreement for a long time. in practice, humanitarian aid is outlawed, despite clear directives prohibiting the criminalization of aid to those in danger. i am referring to the un protocol on the smuggling of migrants and the convention on the law of the sea. the facilitation directive contains ambiguities: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. the search and rescue ships are prevented from landing in our ports, those who shelter migrants fleeing to the alps are arrested. there will be no more rescue ships in the mediterranean if the union does not take action to save shipwrecked people, since it did not europeanize mare nostrum in time. we are back in the 1930s, when international bodies yielded to the arbitrariness of rogue states. if the union, the guardian of european law, does not offer clear guidelines to abolish the crime of solidarity, the colossal failure of the league of nations will be repeated. i would like to thank the interpreters and support their strike.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while european governments are closing in on their own selfishness, there is another face of europe: the many volunteers and organizations that save lives on land and at sea, trying to offer a dignified welcome. yet they are under heavy attack, accused of promoting illegal immigration and even collaborating with smugglers, charges that have been proven completely unfounded in several court decisions. it is unacceptable to attack those who are merely making up for the serious lack of a european humanitarian response. it is unacceptable that vessels of those who save lives at sea should fear legal consequences for having complied with the obligation to rescue, as provided for by international law: we are facing a real criminalization of solidarity. you really want to fight the traffickers? open legal and safe pathways to all european countries. we therefore also call for the directive on facilitation to be amended, making the clause which expressly excludes the possibility of punishing those who provide humanitarian aid mandatory. and we ask all countries to introduce it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the landings are continuing and with them the deaths at sea have increased: a hundred dead off the coast of libya just a few days ago. but in this tragedy of our times, the role of the non-governmental organizations which assist migrants and which have, by their rescue actions, encouraged trafficking, remains to be clarified. in other words, traffickers, aware of the presence of vessels flying the flags of central european countries and providing rescue at sea, have increased their use of sea-going carts for their dirty deals. we are here today to ask the european commission to reconsider the rules in place to define humanitarian aid and to go beyond directive 2002/90. the italian coast guard has repeatedly complained that this directive, which applies in emergency situations, has instead become the norm. the member states of the european union are required to relax legislation introducing criminal sanctions against facilitation of illegal entry, transit and residence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crime of solidarity: and that's the absurd concept we're discussing here today. with this concept, anti-immigrant europe is giving us the appearance of an almost kafkaesque absurdity. in europe, the cradle of humanism, an ever-increasing proportion of the population has embraced anti-humanism, to the extent that judicial authorities in some member states have suggested sanctions against citizens who show solidarity, leading to incredible lawsuits against solidarity. the antipathy towards migrants is the political banner of xenophobes and populists, who confuse aid with crime and corrupt our certainties. the first is that the criminal offence of illegal immigration was invented in some european countries. then someone commuted it to a crime of solidarity against their willing citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. so we also need clarity for our european directive. we must therefore reiterate one fact: the european citizens who help people in need deserve awards and medals for civil merit and it is completely wrong to compare them to human traffickers or to accuse them of encouraging illegal immigration. let's say it loud, once and for all: the philanthropic action of our fellow citizens consolidates the primacy of the person! of course, legality is important. but where people's lives are in danger, we must appeal to the legitimacy of solidarity actions.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me update members of the european parliament on our work on the definition of smes, but i just want to start by reminding you of three figures that i am sure you all know. smes account for 99% of european union enterprises. they provide 90 million jobs and they generate almost four trillion in value added. we believe that smes should be able to operate in an environment that really enables them to start and grow their businesses, and we have been working across the commission to address exactly this objective: from the start-up initiative, through our work on the single market initiatives, through a strict line on enforcing late payments, for example, to the new skills agenda. administrative burdens, changing legislation, finding the funds: these are just some of the worries of small and medium-sized enterprises. the smaller the enterprise is, the heavier those worries weigh on them. an important element in this discussion is of course an sme definition. as you are aware, we are currently carrying out a thorough evaluation of the sme definition to examine if it is still fit for purpose in the current business and finance environment. how are we doing this? by carrying out a wide-ranging, in-depth analysis and evaluations. we listened to smes via a targeted survey – almost 6 000 smes replied. we listened to all those who use the definition on a daily basis, to those who provide loans to smes or who relieve their administrative burdens or finance their ideas with a grant or state aid. so 150 individual interviews were carried out. we listened to all associations and other stakeholders that know smes and protect their interests. the public consultation received nearly 1 000 contributions and over 100 position papers. it was closed just recently in may. we are now considering all the submissions and carrying out a dedicated evaluation and an impact assessment. we also, of course, listened to the members of the european parliament. what is more, this really vast consultation exercise was done on top of three earlier evaluations carried out in 2006, 2009 and 2012. no major issues were revealed back then but there have been developments in the meantime, especially in two rulings of the court of justice of the european union in 2016, and these rulings pointed out certain issues that the wording of the definition might apply. it is particularly important and relevant in the context of groups of linked enterprises. i can confirm that this issue forms a part of the evaluation. the second question refers to adaptation to inflation of the nominal thresholds used in the definition. on this aspect, again i can reassure you that this is also among the items covered by this evaluation. on the third point, the so-called mid-caps, we are of course aware of the challenges they are facing – and they are really facing a lot of challenges, for example scale-ups – and again, we are also looking into this issue and we are evaluating this. all the issues flagged in your questions are being specifically addressed, in addition to the whole spectrum of aspects that form part of our evaluation. the next steps will depend on the outcome of this global assessment. so due account will be taken to ensure that the burden on smes is limited to the minimum and that clarity and stability for those who use the definition are the underlying objectives. i am looking forward to listening to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the determination of our colleague mr pieper that has brought us to this important debate tonight. this is an opportunity to reiterate the central role of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european manufacturing system and the european economy. the commissioner has reminded us, with a few details, of the importance and value of this group of enterprises, including micro and family businesses, which have nevertheless made it possible for the european economy to be highly competitive and productive. i think we must continue along this path and the current consultation, to which the commissioner referred, also represents the will of the commission and of all the institutions, including parliament, to work in this direction. i think that small and mediumsized enterprises must be equipped to take advantage of the new opportunities offered by the recovery of exports to third countries, the recovery of a competitive capacity after the economic crisis. we must understand that there will be no growth, not even for smes, without innovation and the ability to take advantage of the opportunities created by the opening up of global markets. we know that innovation means not just focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises that have a strong disruptive and change capacity, but also on those that can enable incremental innovation, that gradually changes the ecosystem and makes it grow. in this sense, i think that if it is true that 90% of the growth in the world over the next few years will be generated outside the european union, we really have a duty to support smes. we know the subject of credit, exports, internationalisation and so on. let me make a final point. if we really believe in smes, we must give them a central role and we must not confuse the plans. that is why it is important that any change in the criteria for definition be based on an assessment of the facts and their contribution. i mean, talk. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am also reading on this screen tonight the title of the description 'definition of small and mediumsized enterprises'. however, from the outset, this dossier has been marred by repeated attempts to include arguments and positions that do not concern smes. they are the backbone of the european economy and we know that. the policy to support them is based on a definition which today allows the vast majority of european enterprises to be clearly classified as smes. smes rely on a clear definition that changes as little as possible over time. it must therefore continue to be based primarily on the criteria of the number of employees, turnover and budget. however, in the discussions that have preceded this day, we have always asked not to mix up the plans, including in this resolution definitions and assumptions of financing for mid-caps, new criteria or indicators that enhance exports or other aspects, without there being a real impact assessment of some proposals. we shall therefore oppose any such questions unless the text is amended by amendments.
the agenda includes a discussion with polish prime minister mateusz morawiecki on the future of europe (2018/2729 ((rsp)). i welcome you, mr prime minister. as you know, and as my colleagues know, parliament wants to be at the heart of the debate on the future of our continent and our union. we are living in a particularly difficult time: europe must be changed, but it is a precious asset which we cannot give up, because it has given us 70 years of peace, democracy and freedom. we want the european parliament to be more and more at the centre of political debate, we want to be the protagonists and we want the european parliament to have the power of initiative like all the parliaments in the world. in recent weeks we have also made our voice heard on the subject of immigration, calling on the council to adopt the reform of the right of asylum. it is one of the important issues for parliament. it will now be important for us, during this debate, to hear your ideas, your proposals and what the polish government intends to do to contribute to the construction of the europe of the future. there are many proposals on the table: those of the european parliament, those of the commission and those of several member states; that's why it's important to hear what the member states think: we want to compare ourselves, and this is a new method of comparison, with a face-to-face between the european parliament and the leaders of the national governments. thank you for accepting our invitation. i remind you that the debate today will end at 11.20 a.m., because then i will receive the president of angola: for interventions, you can register with the usual system, by inserting the paper and pressing one of the buttons.
mr legutko, since you have called me to account in the korwin-mikke affair, i would remind you that i did not impose a penalty on the member of parliament because he was polish. as you know, i have never, ever done any favour to one group over another, to one member of parliament over another. i have always treated all members of this house in exactly the same way: who voted for me and who didn't vote for me. you said it was an attack on the poles. i have sanctioned mr korwin-mikke and i am not interested in what the court decides: i'm not going to let you take any action against me! i think it is unacceptable for a member of this house to say that a woman is inferior simply because she was born a woman! i will never allow it! i don't care about the court of justice. i do not accept the verdict! i respect it, but i don't accept it! how i do not accept anyone saying that he is a lesser being because he is a jew, because he is a christian, because he has a different skin color or because he is polish! all human beings are equal and i say this because i know that you are a christian, a practicing catholic christian. so there is no polemic attitude towards the poles and poland. i respect all polish citizens: the penalty was not imposed because mr korwin-mikke was polish. for me it could be italian, french, german, luxembourgish: i would have had the same attitude. since i heard you say that there was a negative attitude towards the poles, i say absolutely no! i have never had a negative attitude towards the poles. that's got to be clear! please, let's move on with the debate. please, your honor, what's the problem? what is it?
i have always been neutral, mr president. if you like to make heads roll, i don't like to make heads roll. i don't mean to drop any heads. i claim what i did as a person, as a human being: i am not saying that women are equal to men, but that women are equal to men.
mr legutko, i may not have understood the interpretation of your speech, but the substance of the objectivity of my behaviour and that of parliament is certain. if you were referring to the exhibition dedicated to general piłsudski, whom i too consider a hero, that exhibition was not allowed because the documentation arrived late, so it was not cancelled. as soon as the documentation reaches the quaestor responsible, mr bearder, the exhibition will be authorized because, i repeat, he is a hero to me too. so there is no punitive attitude towards poland. i am sorry that you did not mention what i said about mr korwin-mikke, but it is my position on the korwin-mikke affair, and that is what i have said.
no one has ever said what you have to say: i only said that you cannot roll heads, because i remember that only under the stalin and hitler regimes were heads rolled.
mr verhofstadt, i am trying to get all those who have asked to speak to speak. we have a short time, we have to close at 11.30, if anyone wants to intervene and provide an answer.... he will answer at the end of the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, you know that this parliament supports the commission's decision to activate article 7 (1). there is a risk of a serious breach of the rule of law: we say this not to the polish people but to their government. concerns are not just about judicial independence: the european charter of rights is ignored in other areas, including public media, right to privacy, right of assembly, protection of caucasian refugees. i also ask you if you will listen to the struggle of society against the stop abortion act, which is an addition to an already extremely restrictive law. these are the pillars of union 4.0: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
mr president, i would say to the prime minister that we are very worried about the illiberal choices of his majority. three simple messages. this new electoral law that you’re trying to pass on the european election is a clear attempt to kill opposition parties by fixing the natural threshold at 15 to 20%. you are attacking the principle of proportionality and the principle of representation by depriving a lot of polish citizens of their voices. on women’s rights, women have a right over their own body. please stop attacking abortion rights. we strongly support the czarny protest. on migration your attitude has been very childish, prime minister, because you are talking about cohesion policy – and we all agree about that – but you cannot pick and choose one form of solidarity and refuse the other one. you cannot want only the benefits of belonging to a great union without ever sharing the responsibility that comes with it. so you should support the dublin regulation reform that this parliament adopted with a two—thirds majority.
thank you, mr prime minister, for joining this discussion, which has been lively but certainly of great interest to us all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you again for accepting our invitation. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
colleagues, it is a pleasure to welcome the president of angola, joão lourenço. angola is an important country in africa and strengthening ties with the african continent is a priority for the european parliament. since the african union-european union summit in abidjan last november, we have advocated for a new revitalised partnership between our two continents, a partnership based on equal relations. the european council conclusions adopted last week reflect this approach, calling for increased exchanges and contact with africa. president lourenço, in september 2017 you became angola’s first new president in 38 years. your election greatly contributed to the democratic process in the country. the reforms you have pushed for are contributing to revitalising angola’s economy by attracting foreign investment, enhancing private-sector competitiveness, reducing dependence on the oil industry, corruption and inequality, and improving citizens’ rights. structural changes, however, remain to be accomplished. poverty and unemployment rank top of the list, as does the lack of diversification of the economy. the eu stands ready to support angola in tackling these challenges. through stronger economic diplomacy and by drawing up an investment plan for africa, we can help you develop a manufacturing base via our transfer of technology and know-how, as well as improving social infrastructures. trade is another area in which we can do more. in this respect, i invite angola to join the economic partnership agreement that exists between the eu and six countries of the region. beyond the economy, angola can play a strong role in the region. i welcome the efforts made and the openness towards refugees from the democratic republic of congo. migration is a common challenge on which we have to work together. president lourenço, thank you for being here today. you now have the floor. (applause)
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. the european parliament wants to play a leading role in this important action to develop ever more positive relations between the two continents. as you have said, there are economic problems but also problems linked to immigration and i am convinced that these problems can only be solved by working together and focusing on the growth of the african continent. i thank you for accepting our invitation and you can count on the support of this parliament. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked very hard and actively on this proposal for a reform of european road transport put forward by the commission. we have done this in order to solve the problems of the thousands of drivers who travel every day throughout europe, very often in inhuman conditions and without respect for basic conditions of human dignity. we have done this to eliminate the problem of social dumping, which very often also results in a distortion of competition to the detriment of firms, especially italian ones, which are forced to close down because they cannot compete with eastern european firms under completely different tax and social conditions. we have put forward our proposals on all three reports under discussion, which have in fact become the position of the empl committee, which has accepted them and made them its own. we therefore felt it was right and necessary to support these proposals to the end, also because the tran committee had the bad idea of twisting them and ignoring them. in particular, we asked for the problem of social dumping to be solved by maintaining the status quo for weekly rest periods and ensuring that vehicles and drivers return home every two weeks, thus allowing drivers to see their families and loved ones again. we have asked for a ban on cabin rest, thus eliminating the problem of so many drivers being forced to sleep for hours and days on board, on the road. we have asked for the posting to apply to all hauliers engaged in cabotage and international transport operations. we have also advocated limiting the phenomenon of irregular cabotage, including through better control instruments. with today's vote parliament has lost a great opportunity to solve the problems of road hauliers, demonstrating a complete lack of common sense and confirming once again to the citizens of europe that the interests of the lobbies take precedence over those of honest workers and decent people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals we made and which the empl committee adopted were aimed at creating a greater balance of wages at european level and at applying the principle of 'same place, same pay'. the absence of common rules for posted drivers is a serious problem in terms of social dumping and disparities between workers in the european union. that is why we have strongly supported the application of posting, also in the case of cabotage operations and international transport, taking into account the high mobility of this category of workers. today's vote on the posting of workers is a clear failure of this europe, which pays a great deal of attention to markets and to the business of trade in goods but very little attention to the social rights of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our position on this report was to prohibit rest in the driver's cab, to guarantee return within two weeks and to maintain the status quo on weekly rests. the tran committee tried to water down this position and for that reason we opposed it, backing again in the house the positions adopted by the empl committee. it is vital for us to guarantee the dignity and rights of all road hauliers and to put an end to what is a veritable slavery, where drivers are not able to see their families for weeks at a time and are forced to live in deeply uncomfortable conditions. the report also shows that parliament has missed a historic opportunity to improve the conditions of workers in strenuous jobs which seriously undermine human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, irregular cabotage is one of the main problems affecting italian road haulage companies. unconcerned eastern european companies are abusing the existing rules, practicing unfair competition with our entrepreneurs, in effect destroying an entire national market. we have therefore proposed that the vehicle of the vehicle be taxed in the member state of origin, that the days available for cabotage be reduced, which should be understood as a mere occasional phenomenon linked to the return of vehicles, and that the monitoring instruments be improved, also by means of the gnss technology available today. we therefore express our disappointment with the fact that we have not included proposals to solve the problem, and that we have once again protected certain realities rather than others and penalized our country once again.
the agenda calls into question the statement by the president of the eurogroup on the conclusion of the third economic adjustment programme for greece (2018/2740 ((rsp)). i welcome mário centeno, president of the eurogroup, who is visiting us for the first time in this chamber.
president of the eurogroup. – mr president, it is an honour to be here today with you and to join this discussion on greece. greece’s third programme is drawing to a successful close. the greek people and all euro area citizens are finally able to turn the page. this is the right time to assess what greece and the euro area countries have achieved together during the last eight years. it is also an opportunity to cast a glance at the near future. first and foremost, i would like to pay tribute to the greek people. the positive results of the last programme are to their credit. (applause) these should now have a lasting effect on growth and would not have been possible without the extraordinary sacrifices made by the greek citizens, without the country’s tremendous efforts to rebalance and modernise its economy. the eurogroup has also contributed to the successful outcome. over the years, greece’s european partners have provided time and money. time for greece to redress its fundamentals; the time that every reform process requires. over eur 250 billion in loans when no one else was willing to lend. this was unprecedented solidarity that will benefit greece for many decades. today greece is ready to stand on its own feet again and with the sound foundations for sustainable balance and inclusive growth. the agreement reached at the june eurogroup is key for greece to achieve that goal. i will walk you through the details of the agreement, but before that, let me briefly mention where we have come from. i am well aware of today’s time constraints, so to borrow a reference from greece’s history and cultural heritage, i promise to be more spartan than delphic. greece has been on the agenda of the eurogroup for the last eight years. back in 2010, the country was facing formidable adjustment challenges which required a deep reform process. public finances had to be put on a sound footing, competitiveness needed restoring, the economy had to be made more open and modernised and the negative spill—overs of all this to the financial sector needed to be addressed. these were long and difficult years. we all would have liked a few things to have gone differently. yet today, greece is set for a successful exit from the third esm programme. 20 august 2018 is a date to mark in our calendar; a date to celebrate. during the programme, greece adopted over 450 policy actions across a vast array of areas. of course, implementation takes time, and we need to be resilient. patience, though often in short supply, is critical but reforms are indeed paying off. economic growth has been back in positive territory. since last year, the economy grew by 1.4% in 2017, and is expected to increase 1.9% this year. the outlook – according to the latest forecasts – is bright and in line with the euro area average. the results have been particularly impressive on the fiscal side. today, greece’s budget is running a solid primary surplus, above 4% for two consecutive years, and has been made more sustainable through ambitious taxation and patient reforms. importantly, the social safety net is being revamped to better protect vulnerable groups. the country’s competitiveness has been improving, with a positive effect on the labour market. that means faster job creation and falling unemployment. greece’s business cycle is now more aligned with the euro area economy and this is great news. against this positive backdrop, the financial sector is more and more resilient. all these are encouraging signs that will help greece to regain investor confidence. it has already successfully raised funds from bond markets on several occasions. the income—passing agreement of euro area finance ministers of 22 june will improve market sentiment even further, as already seen on the secondary market. the recent agreement on debt relief is the last of several improvements in greece’s lending terms since 2012. thanks to these favourable landing conditions, greece saves money every year. in 2017 alone, it saved eur 12 billion in debt service payments, or 6.7% of the country’s gdp, according to the european civility mechanism estimates. these benefits represent no cost for the european tax payer; on the contrary, we all gain from a stable and growing economy across our common currency area. back in 2012, private creditors did agree to take a hit to the tune of 53% on their holdings of greek debt. this was a unique feature of the second assistance programme. already in the esm programme, we had agreed short term debt measures that reduced the debt to gdp ratio by 25% in 2016. in the last eurogroup, we agreed to an even more substantial package of measures to make greece’s debt sustainable. this includes an extension of the bulk of the loans by the european financial stability facility (efsf) and a deferral of interest by an additional ten years. in other words, until 2033, greece will have less interest and have the motivation to burden its budget and this means more fiscal leeway to support its economy and its citizens. in addition to that reprofiling, the eurogroup last month agreed to resume transferring to greece the profits made by the euro system on its holdings of greek government bonds. this will take the form of semi—annual payments in december and in june until 2022. these payments give a positive incentive for greece to continue implementing reforms in the coming years. it is time to continue the process of reforms that is now fully owned by greece. this process must prove resilient over forthcoming political and economic cycles, and we must never forget that. the final tranche of the european stability mechanism to greece was another element of this package. we agreed that eur 15 billion will be disbursed after the national parliaments in a number of member states have had their say, and this can happen as soon as next week. out of this amount of eur 15 billion, eur 9.5 billion will be dedicated to a cash buffer, which should also reassure investors as it will act as greece’s fiscal backstop. the remaining eur 5.5 billion will be disbursed in 2020 to a segregated account and should be used to cover greece’s debt servicing needs. at the end of the programme, the overall size of the cash buffer in greece will be eur 24.1 billion, which is a very large amount that covers greece’s financing needs for around 22 months after the exit from the programme on 20 august. this is a longer safety net than in any other country’s programme so far. so, it is now up to greece to build on the programme’s success and to consolidate its achievements. greece should continue implementing responsible fiscal policies and growth—enacting reforms to improve the living conditions and the chances and prospects of its citizens. this is what greece’s post—programme framework will be about. we all agree that for the next couple of years, the so—called enhanced surveillance by the european commission will help greece stay the course. commissioner moscovici will be able to tell you more about that in a minute. but let me be clear, being out of the programme means greece being out of the programme. greece should commit to the requirements to participate in the euro just like any other country in the euro, but in this safe framework the government has an obligation to provide policy options to its citizens and to debate them internally. that is indeed a good thing for democracy. i am confident that greece will look at its policy options and be able to improve on existing reforms to promote stability and political compromise – stability to spur investment, compromise in the name of future generations. this will require action on several fronts: prudent fiscal policy based on primary surpluses and sound management of public finance, financial sector governance and handling of non—performing loans, an efficient and effective social safety net, flexible and open labour and product markets and – also very importantly – modern public administration, just to name a few. for this purpose the greek government presented a growth model which is based on the continuation of reforms. these will help greece to continuously lift its productivity capacity and offer a solid anchor for confidence amongst foreign investors and greek citizens. market volatility some weeks ago has shown that greece remains vulnerable to risks. new policy options should take this into account. it is very important that greece continues to take ownership and implement its ambitious long—term growth strategy. i am encouraged to find that the greek authorities see it that way too, and i welcome the policy commitments they have announced to the eurogroup. confidence in greece’s future is the key message i wanted to convey to you. i would now very much like to hear your views on this matter.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the eurogroup, dear mario, it is a pleasure to be here with you today, alongside the president of the eurogroup, to present to you, in my turn, what the eurogroup agreement of 21 june means for the future of greece on the morning of 22 june. after eight long, endless years, greece is finally getting ready to return to the path of normality and autonomy. i spent two days in athens yesterday and the day before yesterday and i was able to see how strong this desire for freedom was among the greek authorities and, i am sure, among the greek people as well. this is a historic moment for this country and, as mario centeno said, this is the phrase i have heard for two days from everyone's mouth, "a page is turning" and we must take the measure of this moment. not to see it as an end in itself, not to see it as perfection, but to be aware of the very great importance of what is happening. it is also an important moment for the euro area, which has proved its robustness and resilience throughout the crisis, and today, with the conclusion of the assistance programmes for greece, we can say that the economic crisis that has hit us so hard is indeed behind us and that the euro area, like greece, emerges, i believe, stronger and with greater potential. we now have until august 20th, and august 20th is the official release date of the programme, to prepare together for the transition and the future of the country in serenity. i am aware, as are all of you here, that the last few years have been trying for the greek people, and particularly for the middle class and the most vulnerable. i know that millions of greeks have lived through and are still living through this long recession, the successive reforms and austerity, even though, as i had the opportunity to say yesterday in the greek parliament, let us not be mistaken, it was not austerity that caused the crisis, it was because there was a crisis that measures and reforms were necessary. everyone in greece has experienced their own personal drama or tragedy, whether it was losing their job overnight, seeing their pension reduced, or watching their children leave the country helplessly in search of a better future they could not find at home. i hope you will believe me when i say that we always think about the consequences of our decisions for the greek people in the eurogroup, where i have been for more than six years now. the european commission has always been the ally of the citizens to defend their interests. not the ally of any particular government, but the ally of the greek people to oppose, as best they could, the blind austerityists, and above all to oppose all those who were prepared to throw greece out of the eurozone in order not to have to show a little solidarity towards a partner. during my six years as finance minister of france and then as european commissioner, i remember two summers, 2012 and 2015, when we were on the verge of a 'grexit' that would have been - i am convinced - a disaster for greece and the euro area. i am proud that we have managed to avoid this catastrophic scenario of grexit because, beyond the consequences i mentioned, it carried in my opinion a risk of an irreparable fracture of europe betraying its founding values. i would also like to congratulate the greek people on the fact that we have been able to integrate a social dimension into this programme, particularly the third one. it is indeed a timid idea, to be confirmed and amplified, but we have succeeded in putting in place: universal health coverage - almost two million greeks now have full access to care, which was not the case before - and a social solidarity income, of which more than 600 000 greeks have already been able to benefit. in the face of adversity, i want to express my admiration for the greek people who have always maintained their european will, their will to remain in the euro zone, and for this i would like to pay tribute to you, elected european representatives, for their courage, which has been very important during these years. as mario centeno said, in exchange for 241 billion euros of loans from the europeans, because we are talking about this anyway, greece, as we know, has embarked on an unprecedented process of structural reforms. never, it can be said, in the history of our union has a country - and it must be said that it needed it - reformed as quickly and as deeply as greece. in the last three years alone, the greek people have implemented 450 priority actions that have begun to profoundly transform the country. what has greece achieved by deciding to reform? in a word, a lot. i know that this is a controversial subject and i saw how heated the debate was yesterday in athens, but i will give some concrete examples. first, greece has embarked on a major tax reform. income tax is now fairer, more efficient thanks to the widening of the tax base and the lowering of the minimum tax threshold. at the same time, a cadastre, yes a cadastre is finally being set up - it has existed in france for 200 years - which will facilitate the collection of taxes and which is an effective mechanism to combat tax fraud or tax evasion and, finally, the revenues are beginning to arrive in the greek public treasury. we know that it was one of the country's endemic ills. a major pension reform has been adopted and is being implemented. it not only restores the viability of the pension system but also introduces uniform rules for all, which will make the system, i believe, more equitable. the bank of greece has also provided a loan guarantee to the bank of greece in the form of a letter of credit. we are not at the end of the road, this is a problem that affects the whole of europe, but the governance of the hellenic financial stability fund, as well as that of the systemic banks, has been considerably strengthened. eight years later, these efforts, these reforms, these sacrifices are beginning to bear fruit. i will not dwell too much on the figures, but greece is well on the road to economic recovery. all the indicators confirm this positive trend: stronger growth (1.4% in 2017 and a forecast of more than 2.3% in 2019), a very spectacular performance in the budget (let's say there is a surplus of 0.8% in 2017, while greece in 2009 had a deficit of 15%, the largest in europe!), a gradual, although still too slow, reduction in unemployment (20% today, compared to 27% a few years ago). progress is being made, but efforts must be continued and reforms completed so that the greek people can benefit from the progress made and see their situation improve. this is the whole eurogroup agreement that mario centeno has just presented. i will not go into details since he has just done so, but i want to stress the benefits of the agreement. why is this a good deal? simply because the agreement reached on debt reduction is in line with our respective ambitions and the needs of greece. it offers greece sufficient room to continue to address the many economic challenges it still faces, while providing - and this was important - the necessary reassurance to partners, investors and markets, who are now waiting for greece to return. the elements contained in this agreement will first of all make it possible to reduce the level of public debt considerably. we expect a fall below the symbolic 100% of gdp mark at the end of the process. the arrangements provided for in the agreement will provide up to eur 1.2 billion each year. in very practical terms, this means that greece will not pay interest on its loans until 2033. this is a 15-year grace period for investment and placement. the challenge for greece, for the authorities of today and tomorrow, is to put growth at the heart of future policy choices. it is also another 15 years of trying - and it must be done - to build a better social future and create social justice for future generations. this must be a priority, i believe, for future greek governments, because - as i said, and we all know - the people are still suffering. beyond that, the only, and i say this with all seriousness, the only strategy for a sustainable and effective reduction of greek debt is growth. this is the whole philosophy behind the agreement of 22 june: to give greece a breath of fresh air so that it can return to growth in a sustainable way and put an end to the debt spiral. i am of course calling on the greek authorities to take responsibility for the change in the situation. it is about implementing the progress made in recent years, because there is still work to be done. but it is the greeks who can pursue prudent and balanced policies that will produce positive results for the greek people and their middle class once again. but let us be clear, i insist on responsibility, i insist on freedom and this is very important for greece, but greece will not take on this task alone. europe and the commission will stand with the greek people all the way. greece is now back in its rightful place in the euro area and the normalisation of its status implies that it will have to respect the rights and duties that flow from this. greece, like any other member state, will have to follow the european budgetary obligations of the stability and growth pact and be a responsible partner in this monitoring process. it will have to present a draft budget for 2019 as early as this autumn, on 15 october, as part of the normal european semester. i was talking about this yesterday with alexis tsipras and euclid tsakalotos. as the greek crisis has been much longer than in any other country, and as the debt remains much higher than in any other country, we have jointly chosen to apply enhanced surveillance at the end of the programme. we will ensure that the reforms decided on in the last programme are carried out in due time. firstly, because greece has committed to it in return for an additional payment of €15 billion, but above all because it is necessary for the modernisation of the greek economy and administration. i am thinking, for example, of completing the cadastre by 2021. we will also remain particularly vigilant, with the european stability mechanism, on the debt reduction path which still seriously hampers the greek economy. but - and i will end with this - i want to stress one last point, namely increased surveillance. contrary to what i heard in athens yesterday from some politicians, who should be careful what they say - because politics does not allow everything, does not allow going against the truth - no, enhanced surveillance is not a fourth programme, it provides a framework to support the completion and implementation of the reforms that are under way. it is in the context of the european semester that the dialogue with greece will now take place, and i can assure you that the monitoring missions will not be judges, prosecutors or teachers, but will be wise and caring advisers so that we can succeed together. yes, that is what this is about and there is no question of a fourth programme. to say otherwise is simply a lie. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express once again my admiration for the greek people, for their strength and dignity in these painful times, and my confidence in the greek authorities to continue the reforms in the coming years, otherwise the sacrifices and efforts made will have been in vain. i am sure that will not be the case, i think we have fired and we will learn together from these painful eight years, from which we come out, once again, stronger.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i have to say that i find it a bit surreal that the representative of the party which brought the greek deficit to 15% and greece to bankruptcy, instead of apologising, attacks the commission and does not recognise the important success of this programme. (applause from certain quarters) but let me come back to the programme. the agreement reached by the eurogroup on the conclusion of the third european stability mechanism (esm) programme and the additional debt relief is a milestone in the process of returning greece to sustainable growth and to autonomy. it is a great success for the greek people, who can finally turn the page after many years of hardship and sacrifices, and for the whole of europe, which, after many mistakes, has proved that it can ensure the integrity of the euro area. i would like to congratulate the greek government, the greek people, the eurogroup and its president, commissioner moscovici, the esm and the european central bank for their positive engagement in this process. let me also give a special mention to declan costello, who has done excellent work on the ground. greece is now exiting the financial assistance programme with an impressive track record of reforms implemented and with an ambitious and socially balanced growth strategy that has to be pursued, and which we should all support with complementary policy actions at eu level in order to further greek growth potential, employment and social cohesion. together with the reforms, the significant debt relief – in particular with the cash buffer, the upfront deferral of european financial stability facility (efsf) interest and amortisation until 2033, and the binding commitment to additional measures if needed – now makes the greek public debt sustainable. it should allow greece to regain full access to financial markets. in this context, while it is important to continue ensuring fiscal sustainability, i regret that the imf – the imf, not the commission – has imposed clearly unnecessary additional fiscal measures in relation to pensions and personal income tax for 2019-2020. this shows why it is important to reform the esm and, while the outperformance of the primary balance would fortunately allow those measures to be fully offset with the tax and spending package, i think it would be wise to allow greece to redefine the timing and the nature of such a relevant reallocation of resources. finally, we have been closely monitoring the programme. we will do the same with the enhanced surveillance framework, ensuring its fairness and ensuring what has been clearly said: it is not a programme. greece has entered the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, with all its flexibility provisions. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after eight years, the macroeconomic adjustment programme for greece has come to an end. i cannot understand how anyone can find a reason to be pleased and even to rejoice, because beyond those estimates which are then systematically shown to be wrong and overestimated, the troika leaves behind a country that is in fact torn apart, devastated, ravaged and even humiliated after a very heavy programme of austerity, privatisation and, above all, wage devaluations. we know very well that the eur 270 billion granted to greece in exchange for spending cuts and these often useless and harmful reforms were not used to support the greek people and to restore the country's economy, but were used to pay off past debts to external creditors. what you call the "greek bailout program" was actually a giant masked bailout of the french and german private banks, heavily exposed to tens of billions of euros in greek government bonds, borne by taxpayers from countries throughout the eurozone, who in 2010 had no exposure to greek sovereign debt. in other words, france and germany used the greek bailout to spread to the eurozone governments all the risks arising from the speculative system that these two banking systems had set up over greece. parliament should therefore tell the whole truth about the nature of this bailout and the dramatic state in which the greek economy still finds itself. i ask what the sacrifices have been worth if we went from a debt of 109% of gdp in 2008 to almost 180% in 2016 and that does not tend to a situation of return today. greece has undergone perhaps the largest privatization program in history: airports, ports, railways, historic properties, tourism, gas and water companies have all ended up in the hands of private companies, mainly german, but also chinese, qatari and russian. yet since 2010, gdp has fallen by 25 percent, and so has household income. real investment has fallen by 60% from pre-crisis levels and remains depressed. since 2010, greek citizens' pensions have suffered 13 consecutive cuts, with a total loss of up to 70% of their value. and it does not end there, because within the programme you have left greece there are other cuts and other measures; the unemployment rate is still over 20%, youth unemployment is over 50%. over 35% of the greek population is at risk of poverty. finally, the population continues to decline, both because of the decline in births and the brain drain. in just eight years, greece has lost 450 000 citizens who have emigrated abroad. this is the real picture of greece that you should give, and i ask you: is this the result of the european union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here and in the media the triumphalist tones of the farewell of greece to the troika: but at least here we're being honest. what has greece achieved? nothing for the debt cut: germany does not want to, but has succeeded in delaying the return of the 110 billion from the old state-saving fund by 10 years. and it can continue to pay back another $ 15 billion in loans with interest; another debt then. greece is therefore still under the commission's supervision: the commission will be subject to quarterly checks to decide whether to open the taps or impose other structural reforms. i remind you that next january there will be cuts in pensions, the 15th pension cut, and the axe will continue to be pulled on health, education and, why not, we will soon also have the imposition of an increase in vat, or a tax on the first house. and yet we have short memories: have we forgotten about the children who faint in class because they're hungry or the families who live in parks because the banks have taken their homes? have we forgotten the high suicide rate in greece? we won't forget! the troika is not over: the european parliament has already said that it is not going to be able to do so. so if tsipras puts his tie back on, don't you think that instead the greek people will continue to wear something that is much more like this (showing a noose)?
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was well known that salvini represented a party with xenophobic and racist tendencies. i have no qualms about using these words, although they are strong, because they are amply confirmed by a number of statements we have had over the years. what we did not know was that the league would find support to govern from the five star movement and that it would be able to sign a government contract in which it would, for example, support free day care services for italian families, in clear contradiction to article 3 of the constitution, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, race, religion, etc. it was only the beginning, because this government made it clear who its enemies were: the different and minorities. different in every way. the minister of family affairs immediately declared that there is no family that does not consist of a father and a mother, in the face of lgbt rights. then there are the migrants, who have become scapegoats for all the ills of a country that is suffering deeply. finally, it was the turn of the roma and sinti: after a few days in office, minister salvini decides to proclaim that he will conduct a census, adding, however, just to leave no doubt about his ethnic contempt, that "unfortunately we have to keep the italians". imagine the outrage that was there! but you didn't! or not enough. the problem is that, unlike what might have happened a few years ago, there has been no real reaction. how is such an attitude possible, and where does it come from? it also comes from here, from brussels, from the european institutions and from the heads of government in the council who are unable to decide anything. they can't give a signal! as far as they can tell, they don't even have reference values. and member states that want to close their borders at every step: i'm talking about hungary, france, austria, but i could go on for a long time. it is our values that we have lost, because the ways and means of dealing with any kind of emergency, not just migration or economic, can be clashed or agreed upon: but values, they have to be very clear, they have to be solid, and they're not anymore. i would like to address president tajani. i am sorry that he is not here in the chamber. when the italian minister of the interior spoke about the roma census, where were you? i immediately took the initiative to write to you, involving the other political groups, asking you to reiterate one of the founding principles of our europe: "united in diversity", that's our motto. the european union was born after the tragedies of the second world war, when millions of people died because of supposed diversity. the european parliament cannot therefore stand by, bewildered and silent in the face of the words of hatred that we have heard from too many quarters, certainly not only from italy, in recent years. do you remember, president tajani, when in 2009, a similar initiative by maroni, also from the league, was strongly opposed by parliament? i wonder why, after so many days, you have still done nothing and not even responded to a letter signed by the presidents of four political groups in this parliament and by dozens of members, including your own group, and instead continue with statements that are more like party leaders. another sign of the loss of the values which should have founded europe in a competition for the most hypocritical: we are signing an agreement in the council and in less than 24 hours there are so many honourable members that we are back to a point even before the agreement. who are we kidding? how can we be surprised that the citizens we govern and who see us behave in this way do not do the same? we can spend years talking about rules, but first we must deal with the crisis of values that is gripping europe and, unfortunately, my country, italy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of the lies and the instrumental attacks against minister salvini and italy. salvini is 100% right when he talks about the eviction of illegal roma camps and he is right when he talks about the control and census of those living in authorized roma camps, censuses already done, in fact, very badly by left administrations, such as the municipality of milan and the emilia romagna region. and then no one ever shouted the scandal. the state needs to know who lives on its territory. the state has a duty to ensure public safety and to control areas with a high rate of illegality. read the newspapers, watch television and every day you will find avalanches of news about the problems caused by the roma. ask the police, the mayors, the citizens who have the misfortune to live next to the roma camps. italians are tired of seeing abusive roma camps where everything happens; they are tired of hearing that europe is giving millions of euros to the roma for integration that does not exist. for us, the roma must have the same rights, but above all the same duties as the italians. they have to obey the law, they have to pay taxes, they have to be censused, they have to send their children to school and not beg or steal. and don't let anyone say we're racist, because we're not. we only speak the truth and we want security, respect for the law and justice in italy. that's why the citizens voted for us and that's what we and minister salvini will do: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when announcing a census of the roma, minister salvini said that 'unfortunately we have to keep the italians', indicating that italians are unwelcome and that non-italians, including romanians, european citizens, are at risk of expulsion. so he turned the census into a dark memory ethnic filing. it was already done in 2008 by another league minister and the italian government should recall that the decision to collect data in a discriminatory way was condemned by the civil court of rome in 2012. the same happened with paris, which was condemned by the strasbourg court in 2013. it should also be recalled that the processing of data revealing racial or ethnic origin is prohibited by article 9 of the european personal data regulation. i have a question for you, commissioner jourová. the italian government reiterates that the evacuation of the camps is requested by the union and the commission. what condition do you ask for, if you ask? thank you for your precise answer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the many comments, let us say amusing, which have been made against the initiative of minister salvini, there is one that is particularly striking: and that is to say, "you're doing this to get votes". in this way you acknowledge that the vast majority of citizens share the concerns that minister salvini has concretely expressed. there is a great deal of concern because you see, ladies and gentlemen, and i am speaking in particular to colleagues of sinti origin, perhaps you do not know, as you are not italian, that very often when and only in cases where some roma or sinti are caught by the police and the carabinieri committing crimes, only in those cases, there is a custom of not giving their generalia to the police and the carabinieri. then let us think about the rights of our fellow citizens, who have the right that those who commit crimes and are a minority in the minority be handed over, like all italian citizens, to justice and do not provide the so-called alias, otherwise discrimination is made to the detriment of italian citizens, including the sinti who are many who do not commit crimes. that is the ratio, beyond a few jokes by minister salvini, which can be criticised, the real ratio of this government and this minister. if there were, if there will be - but i don't think there will be - different things, then your indignation will have a basis. but in this situation it is pure demagogy and political propaganda. shame on you, on the skin of the sinti that this government will help when they deserve it and where.... (violent exchange with mr viotti)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate in this chamber has some disconcerting, almost surreal features, especially if one thinks of what happened in the council a week ago with regard to italy, an italy which has been abandoned on an epochal issue such as migration, an italy which sees france filing its citizens at its borders: i am not going to go into the details of the situation here. so i think that - to return to the subject that seems particularly interesting to me, especially for an italy that has never been racist, but that tends to become intolerant, also because of a europe that does not understand, that does not grasp any of the aspects that the italian people have been suffering for too long now - i think that talking about roma and sinti is useful and certainly in such a way that they are in a position to help children, who only 30% can attend schools, women, who in a patriarchal condition of clan, are marginalized, are unable to study, are cornered by a cultural condition that cannot be eradicated also because of communities that do not want to be helped. and it is impossible in a civilized country to consider the fields as sustainable. i think what salvini meant was that on an issue like this, the whole of europe, as well as on the issue of immigration, cannot leave italy alone, nor can the italian state alone shoulder the burden of minorities who need protection and help.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new minister of the interior, mr salvini, has announced a real listing on ethnic grounds, which is prohibited by our constitution and also by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. why do i say that? because the fact that it is a discriminatory and punitive approach emerges when, in fact, he said that "the italian roma, unfortunately, you have to keep them at home", phrases that should not be part of the language of a member of the government of a democratic country and known for its humanity. what is very different, mr bizzotto, is the anonymous statistical and quantitative survey dossier produced by istat a year ago with the national office for the elimination of racial discrimination and the association of italian municipalities, in collaboration with the national roma forum, aimed at monitoring and overcoming the presence of nomadic camps in order to follow european guidelines. in europe there are about ten million citizens of roma and sinti origin. in italy there are 180 000 of them, 40 000 of whom live in housing difficulties, in formal slums run by local authorities or informal slums, a segregation which affects mainly half of them, the minors, because of the repercussions on their mental and physical health and their schooling. we want to move forward instead by overcoming the agreed fields and with a mutual agreement between local communities and roma, according to the national strategy, which takes up the european one of 2011, which has already allocated resources and will also allocate them in the next european social fund, but through processes, as my colleague spinelli said earlier, which concern inclusion through education and health care, employment and housing policy. there are positive experiences but many negative ones, particularly the one that has been recorded in these months and weeks in rome, my city, where the junta led by the five star movement, allied at national level with salvini, has carried out in these weeks a brutal eviction of the most orderly camp of 420 people, with 90% of children in school, without giving any alternative, limiting itself to promising perhaps money to rent a house, without any form of accompaniment and assistance, otherwise the families will be disintegrated, without a shared plan, without a pact on rights and duties, effectively abandoning families, violating the dignity and rights that you, commissioner jourová, had previously noted, with children and infants, without water and light and refusing to be confronted with a representation from them. that's how populists rule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am really confused. the tone of this debate seems to me to be clearly one of partisanship, political malice, provoked by the left, which exploits very delicate issues, and the presence of such a large number of italian speakers underlines that we are exploiting the european parliament for a national debate, and i think that is a very bad thing, as well as exploiting issues which have rightly been mentioned by both the commission and the council and which should be taken for granted, and the values which have been recovered and won in europe at the cost of blood, tears and sacrifices. we have pages that were horrible and we find here a really terrible instrumentalization, also because when the people's party asked the parties to propose a discussion on these issues in april 2018, the socialists opposed it! in 2012 the italian socialists were here saying the same things: but is there any doubt that they want to keep the problems instead of solving them? because mr maullu quoted the data! but can we not solve - with all the money we spend to get children to school, to give their women the same opportunities as other women and men - can we not see that 40,000 people still live in those conditions, with children who cannot go to school or who we find at the exit of the supermarket during school hours, taking the trolleys and begging? you should be ashamed of yourselves, gentlemen of the left, because you, with all your cooperatives and associations that live off these funds, do not want to solve the problem: you perpetuate it and you instrumentalize it. it's a great shame! my colleague kyenge will also speak, which is proof that we are not racist: she was not born in italy, she was a minister and now she's sitting here representing italy. say thank you to the country that welcomed you and made you a minister! (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask that mr gardini's statement be examined carefully, because you cannot come here and say that we support you. i am a european citizen, elected by the italian people! i ask that his words be examined.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister salvini has shown the true nature of the league in just one month, and has given the new government a clear signal: it is cowardly and deeply discriminatory. instead of solving problems, it uses its institutional role to continue to spread propaganda, choosing a different enemy every day, echoing ever more vaguely the darkest period of our common history: he threatens clashes, promises expulsions, announces retaliation. obviously outside the framework of any law, as in the case of the shooting on the roma census, in open violation of the constitution, the principle of equality, the european charter of human rights and the legislation on privacy. he prefers to call it "anagrafe to expel irregulars" but as i quote verbatim, he says "italian roma you have to keep them at home", save then for the first protests and there have been many to eat everything back and justify themselves with the stubborn rhetoric of the good father of the family, saying that the filing only serves to protect children. but what does it tell us about the children you are letting die at sea, closing ports and preventing rescue, with the complicity of other european governments? the libyan coast guard will take care of it, you say; we've seen how. it's very easy to channel people's fears and insecurities to the weakest, the last to arrive. but why don't you ever point the finger at the top, like those multinational corporations that evade taxes every year for billions, stealing basic resources from citizens? and he's not just against roma or immigrants, but also against the lgbt community, and lately also against saviano, who has been under surveillance for years because of the threats of the mafia, threatening to take away his surveillance because of his criticism. not only in italy, but in hungary, poland and many eu countries the fundamental rights that we have put at the foundation of the union are at risk: the european institutions must act before it is too late. can we not allow groups of people to be discriminated against or has history taught us nothing? the safest society, ladies and gentlemen, is the one that is able to be the most inclusive, and i am sorry that there are no colleagues from the five star group in this debate because you are now also responsible, you who govern with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is truly shameful. i ask for the respect of this house. i say it again: if today in italy i am under a protection program, with the escort every day, it is because someone uses the language of instrumentalization of the different to try to create a conflict, because today the violence is at unacceptable levels. and on this point, the statements made by minister salvini on the situation of the roma do not even deserve to be repeated in this house: they have brought back horrible memories, they have opened up dark pages of our past that we thought had been archived from decades of struggles for a democratic and inclusive society. salvini has followed the communication strategy of this new government, which is based on demagogy, populism, simplification and has fomented social and ethnic hatred, causing divisions in society. yes, because in his chilling speech, matteo salvini went beyond the racial census, which is prohibited by our constitution; it also went beyond expulsion, which is also illegal if done on ethnic grounds: minister salvini has deliberately fuelled a vicious circle in which ignorance and prejudice increase each other. the campaign of xenophobic discrimination against roma and all ethnic minorities not only violates fundamental rights but also leads to marginalization and ghettoization. this mad chase must end; it is a deliberate attempt to eliminate all the efforts we have made. the new generation born and raised in italy finds itself thus marginalized. this is certainly not a new attitude on the part of the league. i remember the ethnicisation of crime, the afrofobie, where one of its exponents even evokes the supremacy of race. dear minister, in one of your many election ads you swore to apply the italian constitution, respecting the teaching contained in the gospel. at this point i wonder if you have never read either of them. well, i just have to wish you a good summer reading break.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects to this matter. the first, to those who know italian history, the idea of census and filing people on ethnic basis will not be new: you just have to go back 80 years to the racial laws. the second, which accompanies the first, highlights the dangerous crest of certain violent statements and words, which describe a progressive shift in language and the gradual deterioration of conduct from political action to ruinous drifts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, after not underestimating and stigmatizing the words of the italian minister of the interior, it is incumbent on politics to question the reasons that have brought us here, in these dark and confused times: the truth is that european politics has fallen into a vacuum where it has lost its capacity to understand society, giving way to the mistrust of citizens and the conversion of politics into protest and moral devastation. i think that the best response to this drift is not only to re-democratize the institutions but it is also becoming increasingly necessary to re-legitimize the european union by restoring the confidence of the citizens, which can only come from the recognition of the rights denied in recent years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet the group of italian visitors who are listening to us from the gallery. the introduction of a visa-free entry system for nationals of third countries was intended by the member states to strengthen the eu's external borders, in the wake of security and immigration fears. the commission proposal posed serious risks of profiling non-european citizens, not in line with data processing rules and our own fundamental rights. in the afet committee we also raised the problem of the impact on diplomatic relations and tourism, a question which we feel is underestimated and which must be given great consideration. the text has been improved but only partially: the removal of questions on education and employment levels and the focus on accessibility for the disabled are certainly positive, as are the stronger reference to privacy rules and the establishment of an ethics committee. but she remains concerned that an algorithm should be used to assess the hypothetical possibility that a person commits a serious crime or decides to immigrate illegally: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner oettinger, when i was asked to join the committee on the budget four years ago - excuse me for coming from a distance - i must confess that i was very intimidated and afraid of the role because, despite my previous administrative experience, i had never dealt with the budget and thought it was a technical committee, made up of numbers and calculations. i have been able to discover, thanks to the commitment and work of the colleagues with whom i have worked - i see the chairman of the committee, from whom i have learned a great deal - that the budget committee is in fact a very political committee and that everything is ultimately decided within it in the very last weeks and hours when we draw up the budget for the following year. today we are starting to get to the heart of the 2019 budget and i have to say that, despite the prospects for a significant increase in all budget lines, the commission's proposal, which provides for a significant increase in all budget lines, responds - pay attention - not to the bizarre demands of the european parliamentarians but to the needs of european citizens. we heard yesterday from chancellor kurz, who gave a speech inspired and full of a europeanism which i believe is very sincere. unfortunately, however, your words yesterday and those of other heads of state and government whom we have heard in recent weeks and days have focused mainly on the issues of immigration, security and the defence of our frontiers. i cannot help asking the council, the heads of state or government, who are not here today either: what exactly is the reason for the council to be so concerned with migrants and migration and not with the future of european citizens? what is the council's motive for discussing immigration, security and the closure of external borders when we are talking about the 45,000 people who have moved to europe since 1 july this year? 45 thousand out of 500 million citizens: the 45 000 people are one third of the inhabitants of innsbruck in tyrol, one third of bergamo in lombardy. if we are not able to deal with a situation like this, how can we think of discussing the real problems facing europe, the real problems and the real crises facing europe, our citizens, our administrations, our companies? the issue of immigration must be tackled in a complex and comprehensive way. if we really want, all of us together, to prevent and deal with the phenomena of migration, then we have to put our hearts at peace and think that solutions will be found, but it will take years and it will take money and it will take a lot of ideas and policies that are appropriate: money to invest in africa, to eradicate the causes of migration. this is the real nodal point: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the countries of central and eastern europe. but at the same time we must not forget our duties towards the citizens of europe. we cannot give them hope by implementing projects and programmes with high expectations and then not provide our budget with adequate financial instruments. we have gone from a grey europe, which was concerned only with money and national budgets, with austerity and cuts, to a europe which is concerned only with fear, with the fear of losing that fragile, very fragile well-being which we have managed to win. that is why we as the european parliament are calling for more investment to give hope to a whole continent and especially to young people. i think that is why we need to invest in our programmes - i think horizon, cef, erasmus. and i 'm telling you right now: we will not accept any cuts in these programmes, the most successful among the citizens of the european union. if we really want a europe that can compete with the united states and china, with the world's major economies, if we want our start-ups to compete with existing multinationals, if we want to aim for europe 4.0, we can only do this together, by investing together. we need more europe, not more borders. if there is an emergency on our continent, it is not about immigration but about youth unemployment, which is at 20%: this is an emergency! and we want to challenge the member states on this. we are also ready to support and increase the european commission's commitment to the youth guarantee. if there is an emergency in our europe, it is the risk of loss of competitiveness of our companies and this is what we want to focus on, investing in horizon 2020 and research. if there is an emergency in europe, it is about supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and europe has, up to now, supported our small and mediumsized enterprises: i think about what he invested in hungary 31 million euros what he invested in austria and italy. one final thought. we must look to our future and that of our generations: the rhetoric of a europe of 70 years of peace is no longer valid if we do not fill it with substance and if we do not give this budget a real soul.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have listened carefully to your speeches, your assent, your amendments and your criticisms, and we shall deal with them in depth during the trilogue and in the course of the next joint meetings with the committee on budgets and the council. i think your priorities are clear, and they were supported here by the vast majority of the speakers, and that is why we find that the draft report by mr viotti reflects in a large majority what parliament wants. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the criteria set out in the treaty on european union. we will do our best to meet your expectations and to answer your detailed questions in depth. the first opportunity to do so will be at the joint sitting on 12 july.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first word i would like to say is that we stand in solidarity with our interpreters. commissioner, colleagues and shadow rapporteurs, i thank you very much for the debate. as you heard, commissioner, the debate is just beginning: i would like to stress, as other colleagues have done, that there is a lot to be discussed, particularly the question of the refugee facility in turkey. i should like to speak very fully about this, because i want to represent the discontent in this house. but i am glad that the priorities which the council wants the citizens to believe are those have been reiterated and reversed and that it has been reiterated in this house, by your words and those of my colleagues, that the agenda and the priorities are different: are youth unemployment which is at 20%; the european union is the world's largest economy. are environmental issues; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. that is what we want and what we must work on in the coming months. i am glad that there is a common vision and that a climate of loyalty can be built between the commission and parliament to try to achieve these objectives, and i believe that we will succeed in full. finally, let me say two things which fully represent what europe must do and how we want europe. we are living in a very strange time and season, a season when someone is threatening to pull up the borders between austria and italy again and at the same time europe is financing the construction of the high-speed train and the tunnel under the brenner to connect these two countries. it is a strange time, and i hope that the europe that wants to build bridges and tunnels to connect, and not the one that wants to divide, will always prevail. finally, i am sorry that we have not heard many voices in this house and, above all, that we have not heard any intervention by the league and the five star movement, the new majority in power in our country.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the large number of petitions received shows, an increasing number of european citizens, including so-called western americans, are experiencing significant personal problems directly related to the extraterritorial effects of the us tax legislation, known as fatca, which is applied in the member states of the european union by virtue of bilateral intergovernmental agreements concluded with the united states. the denial of access to essential banking services for these citizens, in a context marked by clear critical problems, requires the prompt elimination of all harassment, discrimination and inconsistency in order to protect fundamental rights. a comprehensive assessment is needed in the various member states of the impact on european union citizens of this legislation and of the extraterritorial practice of the united states with regard to its nationality-based taxation system. i would remind you that in its resolution of 6 july 2016, this parliament had already noted a significant lack of reciprocity between the united states and the european union in the framework of the fatca agreements. this is something which i believe needs to be addressed and resolved: the european union and the united states must be fully reciprocal in the scope of the information to be exchanged, while, of course, upholding the fight against tax evasion, corruption and money laundering by adopting the highest international standards of tax transparency. i join my colleagues in calling for: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the issue of the participation of people with disabilities in european elections is of great importance. but much remains to be done to ensure that the rights of those who are less fortunate and have a disability are respected. beyond declarations of principle, concrete action is needed, otherwise the rights enshrined in the constitutions of the various member states and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union risk being left as a dead letter. all citizens are equal and have equal dignity. i take this opportunity to make a proposal: as a person who works on e-democracy and the use of digital tools, i believe that the time is right to implement forms of e-participation, such as online voting, which would greatly facilitate the political participation of people with disabilities. i wonder whether the commission has already prepared concrete initiatives in this direction, perhaps taking as a model some member states which are particularly forward-looking, such as estonia. i am convinced that the use of electronic tools can be a helpful element for those who want to participate actively in political life and are affected by a disability. the european elections next year are a must-win opportunity for the european union to demonstrate that ensuring and effectively implementing the rights of persons with disabilities is a priority. i, for my part, will continue to fight vigorously to ensure that these rights are guaranteed in practice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you for these answers, which are more important than ever today. the europe of equality, non-discrimination, accessibility and the protection of human rights, which are the founding values of our institutions, starts with the election of the representatives of this parliament and with the way in which we will implement measures to raise awareness and encourage direct representation of people with disabilities within our institutions. this path must necessarily involve improving the ability to provide information that is accessible to all. unfortunately, one underlying problem remains: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we must not only talk about guarantees of independent access to the vote, but also about guarantees which allow in everyday life to overcome barriers which damage not only the autonomy but also the dignity of individuals and which deny them the full exercise of their right to vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing in this house today two fundamental rights for any country which really wants to call itself civilised: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities are respected and that they are protected. we are here to ask you what the status of what has been an obstacle course for several legislatures is. because in many cases these are not just physical barriers, but also ideological, communication and bureaucratic barriers. on the eve of the next european elections, we find that in some member states of this europe, people with disabilities are still virtually excluded from the right to vote. commissioner, there is no time to argue: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life for disabled people. we ask you loudly: it is a political, ethical and moral duty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a famous italian songwriter, giorgio gaber, expressed a remarkable concept in its simplicity and truth: freedom is participation. the possibility of taking part in political life is a central element for all those living in a democratic society. the strongest signal that europe can give disabled citizens in this regard is to adopt concrete measures for inclusion as early as the next election cycle, which are not limited to awareness-raising activities but also aim to understand and solve the obstacles that disabled people encounter in participating in public life. we must start with the information material on the political programmes, which must be available in braille, and then move on to the accessibility requirements for seats, and finally to the voting procedures for those who live in an institution or are unable to move. but even more urgent is the need to build a form of active representation of disabled people here in parliament, encouraging those disabled citizens who represent the values of their community to stand for office and to bring their experience but above all other priorities with them to europe.
in writing. disability cannot and must not constitute a limitation on the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in any type of election, including european elections. it is necessary to go beyond the declarations of principle already contained in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and identify actions and instruments capable of removing the obstacles that effectively prevent the effective participation in elections of particularly vulnerable persons, such as the disabled. a significant contribution to this, in order to leave no one behind, could come from technologies conceived and designed also for electoral events and used in order to make full participation by all possible. innovation, technology and good practice, supported by appropriate legal bases and initiatives also at european and national level, can help to achieve inclusive and accessible elections for all those who are entitled.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, elman ali ahmed had a dream: he wanted to be a politician. disarm child soldiers and end the civil war that has been bleeding its country, somalia, for too many years. the somali father of peace, faced with forced recruitment, summary killings and child mutilation, decided to use his life as a shield for children who were victims of madness, thus paying the price of his dream with his life itself. many people like elman today are fighting and dying to save somalia from a treacherous war fought between clans, terrorist groups and government forces. a devastating war that does not hesitate to use children as meat in a country now exhausted by drought and disease. we are facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in a country where human life continues to be of very little value. to this is added repression, the restriction of any freedom, arbitrary arrests and summary executions by all parties to the conflict. i hope that the european union will immediately put pressure on the somali authorities to stop using the intelligence agency nisa to arbitrarily arrest, abuse and torture suspected terrorists. nisa urgently needs to be scaled down and regulated by an effective monitoring mechanism in order to prevent the serious human rights violations that are taking place.
in writing. turkey in africa is becoming increasingly stronger for economic, political and military and defense reasons. turkey has been playing a major role in somalia's economic and social recovery for years, rebuilding the port and airport in mogadishu, as well as lighting and paving the roads. ankara is keen to preserve and extend the somali model as it can be an example of what turkey would be able to do in other african countries. he also inaugurated the world's largest military training center. somalia is the largest international recipient of turkish presence and a military satellite thus increasing ankara's visibility in the security sector and presence in the indian ocean. turkey intends to increase its influence by using its cultural-religious ties with several muslim-majority regions in africa. another point of interest for turkey is the militarization of the east african coast to gain control over the trade routes. will the vp/hr take action to ensure that africa, and somalia in particular, does not become a land of influence, if not military conquest, for ankara? can you specify the amount of turkish investment in somalia?
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the word of a man like pierre nkurunziza worth? this is what everyone in burundi is asking themselves: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the president has said that he will not run in the next elections in 2020, although he could do so thanks to the constitutional referendum that he strongly wanted and won last may, a referendum that made constitutional changes that would allow him to continue to be the highest office of the state for two more seven-year legislatures and then until 2034. all this is happening in a country that continues to be in chaos: the referendum process itself has seen more shadows than lights, with imbonerakure militias escorting citizens to seats, urging them to vote yes, a recommendation that is hard to ignore in a country where arbitrary arrests, torture and extrajudicial killings are the order of the day. more than 1 200 people were killed and hundreds of thousands of civilians fled, prompting the international criminal court to open an inquiry into the events in burundi last year. the answer came quickly: burundi, precisely to avoid such an investigation, became the first country in history to withdraw from the rome statute. the commission of inquiry on burundi, in presenting its report to the un human rights council, listed all the violations it had found and pointed out that the situation was still extremely worrying and that the burundian authorities were not cooperating with the un. so, ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on nkurunziza's statements, i believe that trust is good but not trust is better. we must continue to talk and deal with burundi, keep the pressure high, not close our eyes to a tragic situation that has continued uninterrupted since 2015. new sanctions are needed against all those who continue to violate human rights in this country; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child, which is currently being negotiated by the un.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be much quicker, i have only an oral amendment to add a paragraph 1a, which reads verbatim 'stresses that the eu must be at the forefront of implementing the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) by integrating them into all eu policies; "
the rapporteur. mr president, in this case it is an addition to paragraph 40a. the words 'also welcomes the additional eur 45,6 million to support greece and spain in managing the flow of migrants arriving on their territory; stresses that effective border control must be accompanied by adequate assistance to arriving migrants; "
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 5 july 2018.
i would like to begin by thinking of the victims of the disasters that have struck european countries over the last two months. i would like to start by mentioning the violent fires which struck greece in july, killing more than 90 people and injuring more than 200. the fire also destroyed over a thousand homes and caused enormous environmental and economic damage. sweden also suffered an unprecedented number of devastating fires during the same period, partly due to the record high temperatures. yet another proof of the scale of climate change and the damage caused by global warming. i would like to stress, however, that the european civil protection mechanism has made it possible to support the efforts of the national authorities with firefighters, planes and helicopters provided by many countries of the union. it is an example of concrete solidarity which illustrates the added value of the european union. italy, my country, also experienced a dramatic month of august, with the collapse of the morandi bridge in genoa on 14 august, which resulted in 43 deaths and the displacement of hundreds of families. i hope that the administrative and political responsibility for this serious disaster will be accepted and that the reconstruction of this structure, which is a key crossing point for the city of genoa, its port, italy and the whole of europe, can be carried out quickly. genoa is a hub of the european ten-t networks. to this end, the european union is providing resources for infrastructure of european importance which, together with the eu's regional funds and the european investment fund, can be used to improve the city's infrastructure. unfortunately, a few days after the tragedy in genoa, italy, a flood of the raganello stream overflowed and killed ten people in the calabrian province of cosenza. this flash flood also caused many injuries. i hope that the resources which the european union makes available to the regions can be used to secure tourist sites exposed to natural hazards. i would like to express the european parliament's condolences and our closeness to the families of all the victims of the events that have taken place in europe in recent months. i therefore ask you to observe a minute's silence and to remember the innocent victims. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the minutes of the meeting of 5 july 2018 were distributed. are there any comments? declaration approving the minutes of the meeting of 5 july 2018. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
thank you, mr. deputy, we will discuss this at the bureau meeting tonight.
i can only repeat. you're still on the same subject, mrs. zimmer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as a european transport commissioner, i have fought for road safety and i can only sympathize with what you have said.
mr president, i can only repeat what i think. i would do the same thing again because i consider all human beings equal to one another. women are not inferior to men. any court can come, anyone can come to tell me this, but i refuse to accept that a woman in this chamber should consider herself inferior to a man. you can say whatever you want, you can ask for my resignation, but i can resign for anything but this.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 6 september 2018, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: on monday, i received two requests regarding the fires in greece. the first was tabled by the ecr group, the second by the gue/ngl group. the ecr group requested that the commission's statement on the 'fires in mati, attica, greece, in july 2018 and the eu response' be added as the fifth item on the agenda after the discussion of the report by mr arimont on 'measures specific to greece'. i now give the floor to mr marias to formulate the request of the ecr group.
before asking who wants to speak against, i wanted to know whether the gue/ngl group and the ecr group are in favour of combining the requests, even though the gue/ngl group is asking for a resolution after the debate, again on the same subject, again after mr arimont's report. i ask you if you agree to join the requests together. then i will also ask the gue/ngl group to speak. instead of four votes, it would be better to vote together on whether to include a debate on this subject after mr arimont's report and then see whether to do so with a resolution or not. mr. marias is in favour. i would like to know whether the gue/ngl group and mr sakorafa agree that after his speech the vote should be combined. (mr sakorafa gives his assent) it is in favour of joining the vote, all right. then i'll give the floor to mr. sakorafa to explain his position and then we'll give the floor to mr. keller.
the plenary will decide. let's see what happens if the house votes to have a debate now. (reaction to a speech without a microphone by a member) the plenary is sovereign. if there are requests from two political groups to hold a debate, i can ask if, when we vote on the debate proposed by the ecr group and the gue/ngl group on the fires in greece - we will then see whether or not with a resolution - the two political groups proposing the debate agree to add the fires in greece and the fires in other parts of europe also caused by climate change to the title. would you be willing to add?
i think that the two groups tend, albeit in different tones, to call for a debate on the tragedy that has struck greece. so i would put the original proposal to the vote, and then we will see what the result is and we will see whether we need to make a resolution afterwards. i therefore put to the vote by roll call the request to add, after mr arimont's report, a discussion on the forest fires which have affected eastern attica. (parliament approved the proposal from the ecr group) only the gue/ngl group proposed that a resolution be added to the debate. so we always vote by roll call for a resolution on the fires in greece at the end of the debate. (parliament approved the gue/ngl group's proposal) we now move on to the amendments for tuesday. the s&d group has tabled a request to add as the sixth item on tuesday afternoon's agenda a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'the threat of the demolition of khan al-ahmar and other bedouin villages'.
we'll see about that. the council is the addressee and so we shall see what happens. i do not know whether the council would like to add anything. it is the council's choice. however, the hungarian prime minister, mr orbán, will be present.
i am quite familiar with the organisation of the european institutions and i am well aware that mr orbán will not be present as president of the council but as prime minister of his country. i have informed the house of this. i asked the austrian presidency if it had anything to say. she has nothing to say so i can't force her to talk.
the council will be the addressee of the act which will be adopted if the motion for a resolution is adopted. so i don't know what the reasons are for not being present, honestly it's not to be assessed a priori. it may also be interpreted as a desire not to interfere in a measure which is then to be sent to the council. i don't know about that, but i have to give you this version.
the presidency is here. (a representative of the council secretariat confirms the presence of the austrian presidency at the debate in question) the news is good: the austrian presidency will be present at the debate. wednesday and thursday no amendments are proposed. (the order of business is as follows.)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was an honour to contribute personally to the creation of the european solidarity corps, together with mrs trüpel and all the other members. it has certainly been months of intensive negotiations with the council and with colleagues from all the political groups. but i am proud of the result, because it demonstrates europe's ability to propose concrete and innovative solutions to today's challenges. the european solidarity corps will enable thousands of girls and boys to serve those who need them most and for the common good. so a platform for volunteering, internships, jobs. i am sure that it will be a success, because it is with the energy and enthusiasm of young people that we can succeed in building a better, fairer and more united europe. we will not allow ourselves to be poisoned by the hatred and intolerance that permeates the words and actions of xenophobic and nationalist forces. we will not fall into the trap of those who want to dismantle more than half a century of exchanges between our countries, exchanges which are first and foremost cultural, human, of values - the opposite of a programme - and of ideas based on hatred between people and on the opposition to an idea of a europe of solidarity, the idea of politicians whom we unfortunately also know in my country, such as minister salvini. it is precisely on these contrasting human and cultural values that the european solidarity corps is based, and it now requires the involvement of all european, national, social and institutional actors to maximise its impact. from the very beginning of the discussion i have fought to ensure that the programme remains as inclusive as possible, allowing all young europeans to take part, regardless of their country of origin, their personal needs, their family economic situation, with particular attention to young people with disabilities. it was essential to guarantee equal opportunities, compliance with quality criteria for the offers made, the possibility of combining a volunteering pathway central to the programme with a series of measures for work, with adequate remuneration and guaranteed contractual conditions. this so-called employment strand of the programme will make it possible to create partnerships with different socioeconomic actors, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, chambers of commerce, social enterprises and cooperatives, while broadening the spectrum of possible actions within it. it was necessary to separate voluntary activities from work more closely than in the commission's initial proposal, and i believe that work should always be considered as such, and therefore paid as such. the text we are going to approve tomorrow provides important guarantees on this front. i am pleased to see my proposals become part of the new programme. i would like the european solidarity corps to prove itself capable of becoming a powerful instrument of social cohesion, even intergenerational, an instrument which, together with erasmus and the social fund, is able to help the many organizations which strive to do good where it is needed most, especially the many youth organizations. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. in short, a tangible example of a europe of solidarity. europe of solidarity is the europe of the future.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, having followed the work on the european solidarity corps on behalf of the envi committee, and having worked on the opinion of the envi committee as rapporteur, i must say that i looked with great interest at a project which could put the theme of solidarity, the idea of solidarity, back at the centre by putting together a body of young europeans who would deal with solidarity. unfortunately, this initial drive has not been sustained, and i say this especially in the light of the outcome of the trilogue. trilogy that has again diverted funds to profit organizations, trilogy after which it continues in a very dangerous overlap between volunteering and low-paid, precarious work. i want to make one more point and then i'm really closing up, mr. president. i believe that excluding migrants, asylum seekers and environmental refugees from a programme of this kind is a failure to achieve the spirit of integration and cooperation which should be at the heart of this programme.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, while supporting the purpose of the new programme, i cannot help but highlight some critical points which the italian government has also noted and which we will not fail to correct in the commission's new proposal for the 2021-2027 programming period. first of all, i am not convinced by the decision to split this new programme from erasmus+, because erasmus+ remains the best known and most loved programme in the field of european youth policies. secondly, only non-profit organizations should be allowed to participate in the programme and receive funding, otherwise we risk finding ourselves with multinational companies that undertake voluntary activities just to clean up their image, and using public money. finally, i am sceptical about the presence of the employment side. the tragedy of youth unemployment is well known and calls for serious labour market policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the community.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank you for the overwhelming support for the draft regulation, and let me also thank again ms trüpel for her work and for the collaboration on this topic. the european solidarity corps is at the moment a potential, an opportunity, to make european solidarity a reality. i think that, with the legal base and with solid funding, we can implement very successful projects, and i hope that these projects will convince all those meps who are sceptical at the moment, or even hostile to this project. the european solidarity corps is not a state-building process, it is not an artificial community. it simply helps young people to find opportunities – either in their own countries or in other eu member states – to help people who may have been struck by natural disasters or who live in need, or to find friends in communities and to build a network of volunteers who are willing to help and support other people and other communities. that is what the european solidarity corps is all about. i do not know why there should be such concern that it is contrary to young people’s interests, or something like that. i think it is a good opportunity and i hope that the future will convince you too that it is a good and useful opportunity.
the agenda includes the report by ruža tomašić, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2017/825 to increase the financial envelope of the structural reform support programme and adapt its general objective (com (2017) 0825 - c8-0433/2017 - 2017/0334 (cod)) (a8-0227/2018).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, structural reforms are crucial to modernise our economies, strengthen their performance and resilience and foster real convergence within and across member states. the crisis has shown that given the high level of integration of eu economies, reform efforts are a matter of common concern. your vote tomorrow will be a signal that we stand by member states in these efforts, and it will be an important step in finalising the package of proposals for deepening economic and monetary union. structural reforms not only create an environment that is conducive to investment growth and job creation, they can also help eu economies withstand shocks and contribute to economic and social cohesion. this is why structural reforms are important building blocks for a more resilient economic and monetary union. since may 2017 we have been supporting the design and implementation of structural reforms in member states through the structural reforms support programme (srsp). this has proven its usefulness, judging from the number of requests from member states which significantly exceeded the current budget possibilities. this year 24 member states applied for an amount that was five times the available budget. to respond to the growing demand from member states we need to increase the funding. at the same time, to strengthen the euro it will be beneficial to provide targeted support to those member states wishing to adopt the euro, in order to help them to prepare better and facilitate their smooth participation in economic and monetary union. this is why on 6 december 2017 we proposed to increase the budget of srsp by eur 80 million. throughout the legislative process both the parliament and the council have shown a clear commitment to eu support for structural reforms in the member states. the compromise that we found is a good one. half of the increase of eur 80 million will be funded by the global margin for commitments, the other half will be funded through redeployment available from heading 2, not affecting the rural and development programmes, nor technical assistance. this means that we are fully respecting the commitment from the original srsp regulation not to provide further financing for the programme at the expense of cohesion policy. i want to thank the european parliament, the rapporteur ms tomašić, the shadow rapporteurs, and the committee chair, ms mihaylova, for the hard work and constructive efforts during the trilogue negotiations. honourable members, by endorsing the political agreement tomorrow you will move europe one step closer to a more integrated, more resilient and more cohesive economic and monetary union. the swift adoption of this file will also enable us to increase our support for reforms in member states already as of next year.
i would like to thank mrs tomašić for her report. we support the report and we also support the programme, which has been a success, but we also support the demand that this reform does not damage the social rights of european citizens in the first place and that it leads to structural reforms which are socially responsible. we need structural reforms that promote sustainable growth, in addition to the social issues i have already mentioned, and for this we must combine national efforts with the support, where necessary, of the european institutions as well. structural reforms must be made because they serve to make the economy stronger, but they cannot be a tool to undermine the rights of citizens. they must be done as quickly as possible, but always in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and they must be coordinated with the specific programmes and objectives of the structural funds and therefore with the specific policies of the various countries on the basis, as i said, of the principle of subsidiarity. it is also essential that this programme should remain voluntary, that is to say, available to the states which request it. of course, at the end of this mandate we will be able to take a further look at it and assess its effectiveness for the next programming period as well.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last year the delegation of the five star movement opposed the establishment of this programme of support for structural reforms, both in committee and in plenary. on this specific text, which proposes adjustment of the objective and increase of the budget, we cannot support it completely, even if the 80 million proposed does not come from cohesion policy. but let 's be clear . the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a system of national social security contributions for the benefit of the handicapped is a very good one. we disagree on these and we will never agree on them. we agree on reforms such as simplifying public procurement rules or fighting money laundering, measures towards social inclusion and the fight against poverty, such as the citizenship income. the european union must therefore pay attention to the political direction of structural reforms and to what it imposes on the member states. it 's true . membership of the programme is optional. but are you sure that all the states, such as the italian government, will implement reforms that are directed solely towards the common good and not towards supporting private individuals and lobbies? we're not sure at all.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the impact of eu cohesion policy on northern ireland (2017/2225(ini)) (a8-0240/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, allow me to start by expressing the commission’s and my personal condolences to the families and friends of the victims of the devastating fire that hit greece this summer. i want to assure you that the commission stands by the greek people and the public authorities and will explore all possible means of assistance in a spirit of solidarity. i understand that you voted earlier to discuss these issues separately, so we will have this opportunity later. honourable members, i would like to congratulate mr arimont on this important report. actually, the specific measures for greece adopted in october 2015 which we are discussing today were already a vivid expression of this spirit of solidarity, which is the dna of cohesion policy. i would like to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the regional development committee, its chair, ms mihaylova, and the vice-chair, mr arimont, for their continued support in promoting these measures. these measures provided crucial liquidity for greece. a total amount of approximately eur 2 billion was paid to the country in 2015 and 2016. this includes around eur 1 billion of additional pre—financing for the 2014-2020 programmes. another eur 1 billion paid as a consequence of the increase of the co-financing rate to 100% and the removal of the 95% ceiling for the total advance and interim payments for the 2007-2013 programming period. in times of severe liquidity problems, these measures also alleviated the burden on the national budget. they reduced by approximately eur 1 billion the amounts needed in national co-financing for 2007-2013. thanks to the additional liquidity and to the fact that it was put on a special ring-fenced account, greece was able to restart its payments to beneficiaries of co-financing projects who, in turn, resumed work on this project, thereby initiating new expenditure which could then be reimbursed by the commission. i note with great satisfaction that greece managed to complete the important project in the programming period 2007-2013 in the fields of transport, digital infrastructure, entrepreneurship, the environment and social and health care. the completion of this project has triggered the virtuous circle of job creation, economic activity and growth. one of the most obvious examples is the five motorway concessions, part of the main ten-t (trans-european transport networks) network. by mid-2015, works had stopped and there was a very serious risk that they would not be resumed because of the lack of funds. the liquidity provided through the specific measures has been instrumental to ensuring that in the course of 2017, all five projects were completed. i actually had the pleasure of taking part in the inauguration event for the tempe valley tunnel on the aegean motorway. all the way through the support from the european parliament was essential, so i would like, once again, to thank you for your contribution, with particular acknowledgement to the honourable member arimont for having sponsored these measures and for his thorough report. thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to your comments.
i would like to express my sympathy to the families of the victims of the terrible fires that have occurred in greece this summer. as mr arimont has already mentioned, the aid measures to greece have been very important and have enabled it to carry out a development programme well. from a political point of view, we as a group have emphasized that this mechanism, although extraordinary, has indeed served to restore breath to an economy that had been suffocated by equally extraordinary austerity measures, stressing that the causes of the crisis were very complex and the effects produced on the greek social and economic fabric very serious. finally, we felt that the positive effect of increased use of the structural funds, thanks to the european funds, was evident, especially in the long term and in view of the continuing questioning of the value of the results of the structural funds. in this sense, precisely because of the extraordinary nature of the intervention, and also because of the contribution it can make to a better understanding of the impact of these policies on citizens, i believe it is important to continue to support the relevance of cohesion policy in the face of its detractors.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion on the commission statement on the fires that broke out in july 2018 in mati, in the region of attica (greece), and the eu response (2018/2847 ((rsp)).
let me say that, in the face of this immense tragedy, i can only join in the condolences and solidarity expressed by president tajani to the greek people at the opening of this sitting.
the motions for resolutions, which must be tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2), will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2018.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by ms jana žitňanská, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on pathways for the reintegration of workers into quality employment after an accident or illness (2017/2277 ((ini)) ((a8-0208/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for these constructive and valuable remarks. the commission has put inclusive growth and social fairness at the core of its political agenda, and we are working hard to make sure that no one is left behind. i therefore welcome ms žitňanská’s report, and the commission agrees that we need effective and concrete measures for workers returning to the labour market after injury and illness. the prerequisite for successful reintegration into the labour market is ensuring the right to a healthy, safe and well-adapted working environment, as clearly recalled in the european pillar of social rights. european union legislation on occupational safety and health focuses on the legal obligation imposed on employers to assess all occupational risks on a case-by-case basis and to adapt work to the special needs of individuals. we have to bear in mind that europe is confronted with an ageing working population with increasing work-related health problems, such as muscular-skeletal disorders and mental health conditions, so we need to face and address this reality. the european union strategic framework on health and safety for the current programming period already proposes a number of measures to address demographic change and the ageing workforce. besides, the 2017 commission communication on ‘safer and healthier work for all’ has put forward specific preventive and protective measures in accordance with the requirements of sensitive workers. now, on the reintegration and rehabilitation of workers more specifically, i agree with you that measures allowing early return to work after an accident or disease are needed in order to avoid permanent exclusion. and, you are right, we should see the reintegration process as a new opportunity to benefit from workers’ skills, competence and experience. that is why we have the european social fund, on which member states can already rely to help injured workers, for instance, to get back to work more quickly. for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) the commission is going further by proposing to include the health programme as a strand of the european social fund plus (esf+) so health aspects are addressed in all social spending, and vice versa. to conclude, let me assure you that the commission will continue, in cooperation with the european agency for safety and health at work, which is based in bilbao, to raise awareness, develop practical guidance and promote the exchange of good practices. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. this is an important contribution in defining the steps forward in the effective reintegration of workers recovering from injuries and illness.
that concludes the point. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by ms pina picierno, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on measures to prevent and combat mobbing and sexual harassment at the workplace, in public places and in political life in the eu (2018/2055 (ini)) (a8-0265/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have been working on this report for more than a year in committee, and i am particularly proud of the result we have achieved. i am proud because i believe that with this text we are taking a big step forward in the fight against harassment and mobbing of women. proud because, thanks to this text, we can finally bring to the center of this debate and also of public opinion an issue that for decades has been minimized, for decades has been avoided in the name of an alleged possible diversity of sensitivity, and that instead, thanks to that global movement that was called "metoo" and that brought to the center the complaint of so many women, has finally become a central issue. every day women and girls are subjected to violence, harassment, mobbing in the workplace, in bars, in cinemas, in parks, in gyms, and this long list of places could really go on and on, unfortunately. and to these places we have to add, unfortunately, another new public place, which is the virtual public place, they are social networks, they are chats, they are websites, they are blogs, they are those virtual places where, unfortunately, verbal and psychological violence is increasingly dramatically concretized. so we in the femm committee wanted to draw attention to these events, to these new developments, to emphasize this aspect which is increasingly appearing in our daily news. because every kind of violence, every kind of harassment has very serious consequences, psychological or physical consequences, as evidenced by the cases of suicide of girls who have been victims, very often, of revenge porn or digital bullying online, and who could not bear the weight of shame of what they had suffered. it is for them, for all the women who have been harassed, for all the women who are harassed, that we are waging this fight. and we ask the commission to make a greater effort, madam commissioner, as the european executive. we want a directive to be proposed at last to standardize the fight against gender-based violence, and we want a clear, uniform definition of what it means to be harassed or mobbed in this directive. above all, we want a clear definition of what a public place means today, because, as we said before, technology has changed this concept by creating new virtual squares, where verbal violence is out of control, mainly because people feel virtually invincible and unpunishable in these virtual environments, where you can easily hide behind a nickname to feel untouchable. so we also ask for more education, we ask for more attention on this aspect as well, because it is from school, which is the first public place where children begin to confront reality, with their schoolmates, that we must start, educating on gender equality, educating on equality, respect and awareness, because respect is due to everyone and because one person's sex cannot make him better or worse than another. i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have worked on this text. we are confident that it will enable us to take a major step forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sexual harassment and abuse are still one of the most heinous forms of violence and violation of human rights. they occur in the workplace, as in public life and even in the digital sphere. according to a study by the fra agency, one in five women aged 18 to 29 has been sexually harassed online. the european institutions, commissioner, must therefore give a strong impetus to the member states to fully implement the istanbul convention by harmonising their legislation on gender-based violence to also tackle the new forms of sexual harassment and bullying in virtual space, which cause long-term psychological consequences for victims and which in some cases have led very young victims to take their own lives. educational and prevention campaigns in schools are also needed to spread a new culture of respect for women and to prepare young people for the responsible use of the internet and social media. forms of cooperation with internet service providers are also needed to ensure that they take concrete measures to protect consumers and enable them to report cases of abuse and harassment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1908, that is to say 110 years ago, a terrible earthquake destroyed messina, killing more than 80 000 people. for the 40,000 survivors, huts were built, which were of course emergency shelters. i know it seems incredible to you, but today in messina, 110 years after the worst disaster in europe in terms of the number of victims, there are still 6,400 people living in the barracks. the fact that the emergency has been allowed to continue and has now been exacerbated by the fact that the roofs of these huts are covered with asbestos, a deadly substance banned in europe 20 years ago because it causes cancer. the news is that there are now people who have gotten asbestosis, a terrible disease that eats away at the lungs of those who breathe asbestos, for which there is no cure. messina, the great sicilian city, is europe, although you wouldn't know it by looking at those shacks. the mayor ordered the evacuation, but there's no homes for everyone. we must now think about people's health and i am calling, together with the democratic party's advisory group in messina, for european intervention, for the intervention of health commissioner andriukaitis and commissioner crețu, and for no one to breathe in that terrible substance, asbestos, which kills.
the agenda includes a discussion with the prime minister of the republic of greece, alexis tsipras, on the future of europe (2018/2730 ((rsp)). i thank the prime minister for accepting the invitation of parliament to participate in this debate on the future of europe. as you know, parliament wants to be at the centre of the debate on how to build the europe of the future. many things are wrong, europe must be changed, but it must not be destroyed. parliament wants to be the protagonist, we want more power for the european parliament. progress has been made with the lisbon treaty, but we want the power of initiative for parliament and we want to discuss with the member states not only at the council. i have stressed with prime minister tsipras the importance for us of the dublin reform, which is a key point supported by the european parliament. we shall all have the opportunity today, after listening to him, to discuss with alexis tsipras, whom i thank once again for accepting our invitation, and i invite him to take the floor.
are there any members of parliament who have an interest in intervening in the "catch the eye"? you know that to submit your application you have to insert your voting card and press any of the buttons for electronic voting. is everyone registered yet? all right, then we can proceed to shut down the system for electronic recording of the "catch the eye" requests. i now give the floor to vice-president dombrovskis of the european commission.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister tsipras, i will say this at once: the european union must not have to repeat the tragic case of greece in the future. a case in which europe has shown its most ruthless and evil face, with bureaucrats and professors intent on playing the greatest socioeconomic experiment in history. a few months ago you celebrated the end of the austerity programme. but the results of the troika are in plain sight: 95% of the 216 billion disbursed until 2016 did not benefit the citizens, but ended up in private banks, always them. as with privatisations: the majority of public assets - airports, railways, ports - have ended up in the hands of german and french companies. always them. and i won't list the dramatic litany of gdp figures: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i will say that the commission has been very careful to ensure that the council does not go into details of the situation. and to think that for professors like mario monti, former italian prime minister, proclaimed by the spread and not by the people, greece was the most concrete manifestation of the great success of the euro. a few days ago he even announced that he was considering a return to politics, because the citizens are asking him to do so. perhaps the first unfortunate attempt to measure up to popular consensus was not enough for him. mr tsipras, you have not lost with europe, you have lost with your people. at first, it's true, he tried to resist. europe then asked, indeed ordered, and you carried out. and it was fortunate that he had to build another europe. the truth is, this union is the same as always: germany likes it, and a few others, or it's not. the mediterranean countries, the ones that should have been close to her, have turned their backs on her. the previous italian government also promised to help you, but then it became the most convinced accomplice of the vicious austerity policies. that is what matteo renzi has done with greece, and you know it. this is what the governments of the so-called socialists have done. prime minister tsipras, you're not asking me, but i want to give you a piece of advice: i would like to ask you to think twice, a hundred times, a thousand times, before joining the european socialist group in the next parliamentary term. think carefully before you ally yourself with those who have humiliated your people. that 's the whole problem . the european union is a union in name and not in fact, a huge gap between north and south, a union of the strong with the weak and the weak with the strong. and the truth is that we mediterranean countries do not want to continue to be the useful idiots of europe. this issue must be brought to the european table immediately. the european commission and president juncker must deal with it with the same exceptional zeal and incredible determination with which they deal with other priorities, such as the legal time. europe has been cruel to the greeks, it has made a historic political, economic, social and moral mistake. on behalf of this institution, the only one elected by the people, i feel i must apologise to the greek people, and for the sake of europe and its future, this must never happen again to any other european people. i'll never do that again!
mr. kefalogiannis, you have one minute. i shall therefore be obliged to take a minute from the group of the european people's party. i am sorry, but if you do not respect the deadlines, i am forced to withdraw the speakers.
i would ask you to respect the time limit, because then i am obliged to take the floor from other members of your group.
i would like to inform the members of the alde group that all the time available to the group has been used by the group chairman. this is not a matter for the presidency and i ask you to treat me with courtesy and respect, because there is no room for bad manners in this house.
mr president, you are welcome to the european parliament. it is an honour and a great pleasure for us to welcome you here in the home of european democracy. it's very important for us to listen to you. the situation in the mediterranean is difficult, we have an immigration problem, a refugee problem. i want to thank the lebanese republic for its commitment to the refugee issue; you have welcomed hundreds of thousands of syrians and thanks to your commitment, we have reduced the presence of refugees and immigrants in europe. we cannot forget your work and your commitment. we must move forward and continue to strengthen cooperation between you and us. we also know that lebanon is a country which has made interreligious dialogue its strength, and it is a good example to follow everywhere. your country is also very important for stability in the mediterranean region. in the face of what is happening in syria and libya, we need mediterranean countries committed to peace and dialogue. mr president, thank you very much once again, not only for being here, but above all for what your country is doing for stability, peace and dialogue in the mediterranean region. thank you very much and i'll give you the floor right away.
thank you very much, mr president, for your words. we must continue to move forward with cooperation between your country lebanon and the european union. we must all work together for dialogue, for peace and for solving the refugee problem, both in your country and in ours. it is not easy, but thanks to the will of those who work, statesmen and parliamentarians, we can all together achieve a positive result for our fellow citizens and for all refugees, who have the right to return home. i believe that all syrians have the right to return to syria to live in peace in their town or village and to enjoy a good democracy. syria is a great country with a great history and a legacy among the most important in the mediterranean; we must prevent this country from being destroyed by civil war. thanks to lebanon, hundreds of thousands of syrian citizens have been able to resist, but now they must be allowed to return home. once again, mr president, a big thank you to you and your country for what you are doing. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the vote)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would ask, on behalf of the efdd group, that we proceed to vote on the amendments to the report which we shall be voting on in a few minutes, as provided for in rule 59 (3).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, due to the effects of the crisis, which has been ongoing since 2008, and the unprecedented influx of refugees and migrants in 2015 and 2016, greece has faced liquidity problems and a lack of public funds for the investments needed to foster a sustainable economic recovery. this report, which we support, analyses the special measures which have enabled greece not to lose the resources for 2007-2013 and to improve the absorption rate of the current programming. in this respect, as we have stressed in several amendments, and as stated in paragraph 12, further information on the added value of these funds from the point of view of social and environmental sustainability would be useful. a holistic analysis of the situation in greece, which is outside the scope of this particular report and the specific regulation discussed here, should in fact consider indicators other than gdp. we are particularly pleased with paragraph 16, which is also part of our amendment, which points out that some regions have difficulty in co-financing projects under the structural funds, and above all calls on the commission to consider urgently, in the context of the european semester and the stability and growth pact, the impact of the calculation of the deficit on regional investment and co-financed investment under the structural funds, especially in the less developed regions. we hope that the commission will take note of these remarks again, and take due note of them this time, and we will therefore work to ensure that the commission wakes up and removes the cofinancing of the structural funds from the deficit calculation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last year my delegation opposed the establishment of this structural reform support programme, both in committee and in plenary. however, the text we voted for today proposes adjusting the target to the increase in the budget. we cannot support it just because the 80 million increase is no longer coming from cohesion policy. why would you do that? because structural reforms require an understanding of what they are. the definition in the regulation in question is that these include measures relating to the labour market, and therefore to social security, liberalisation and privatisation of services, not to mention education and training. we have not and never will agree on that. we are in favour of reforms such as simplification of public procurement rules, the fight against money laundering, measures to promote social inclusion and the fight against poverty, such as the citizenship income. the european union must therefore pay attention to the political direction of structural reforms and to what it imposes on the member states. it 's true . membership of the programme shall be optional and voluntary for member states. but are you sure that the member states are all doing what the italian government is doing, and are therefore implementing those anti-corruption reforms, for example, such as the citizenship income, which are aimed at the common good, the good of the citizens, and not the interests of the lobbies, the powerful and the private sector?
the agenda includes the report by judith sargentini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on a proposal to call on the council to establish, in accordance with article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union, the existence of a clear risk of a serious breach by hungary of the values on which the union is founded (2017/2131(inl) (a8-0250/2018).
well, hungarian prime minister orbán is here. you may continue, mr. sargentini, since you have just begun.
given the importance and the sensitivity of the debate and the very high number of participants, since there will also be the 'catch the eye' afterwards, i will not accept 'blue card' questions.
mr carver, i can confirm that there is a vice-president of the european parliament who is a roma member of parliament, who belongs to the european people's party group and comes from the fidesz party. that is the truth, mr járóka, who is vice-president of the european parliament. it is well known throughout this house that he has fought battles in defence of the roma, and so i confirm that what mr carver said is true, beyond political judgments, for information only.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to president orbán. you, mr orbán, are a hero in this parliament, a hero fighting for the freedom and sovereignty of your people against the european soviet union. the hungarian people are under attack from this europe, which is enslaved by the lobbies, the banks and the financiers of soros. that is why brussels is attacking orbán in hungary today, and tomorrow it will attack italy and our leader matteo salvini, who is bravely stopping illegal immigration. president orbán, we share the same values, the values of those who want to defend their identity and popular sovereignty, the values of those who want to defend our borders and say no to the invasion of illegal immigrants. this europe must be changed, and we will change it from top to bottom to give our citizens security, justice and true democracy. courage president orbán, we are with you and together, after the european elections in 2019, we will build a new europe: the europe of peoples, of homelands and of freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is not addressed to the hungarian people, who deserve our full support and friendship, but to the actions of the government of viktor orbán, which systematically violates the values on which the european union is founded. a government that for years has been undermining the functioning of the constitutional and judicial system, that fosters corruption, that violates freedom of expression, that denies the rights of refugees, migrants and all minorities. there are no middle positions: we are either with orbán, endorsing his repeated attacks on the rule of law, aware that what is happening in hungary today could be repeated tomorrow in any other member country, or we are against, condemning the serious violations for which his government has claimed responsibility. the delegation of the democratic party in the european parliament and the whole socialist and democratic group will vote in favour of this resolution. we will not be complicit in the breakdown of the rule of law in hungary or any other member state. we want a strong europe, a europe which guarantees the rights and democracy of all its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing the ordinary european citizen, viktor orbán, not the president, to tell him that liberal democracy is not dead. it may be slow, flawed, imperfect, but democracy is strong, and so strong is this european democracy that it is ready to defend its rights as a common european citizen. that is why i want to assure you that there will always be room in this house for opinions, including your own. i want to assure him that the european union will always be based on the solidarity which guarantees hungary 5 billion euro in funds. i want to reassure him that if he ever faces a court of law, it will be this democracy that will guarantee him an independent judiciary, uninfluenced by the political power in power. i want to tell him that he will defend his personal rights, including the right to study at a hungarian or foreign university if he wishes, because that will be his right, and i also want to tell him that he will not be discriminated against, and that if he ever finds himself looking for work outside his country, it will be the european union that will guarantee him freedom of movement. i therefore invite you to reflect on what this democracy is and what value it has. i would like to say to my colleagues from the five star movement, who are particularly absent and silent, that i want to see how they vote, whether they are in italy and hungary and in europe for the rule of law or not.
if we are talking about the roma minority and the vice-president is trying to defend the roma minority, she has the right to do so. since she was talking about something else, she asked to speak on the roma issue. madam, it's my responsibility, yes, i gave him the floor a second time, do what you want. i gave the floor to mrs járóka on the roma minority because she had started to talk about something else. so, if... we can't defend the rights of the roma if only a few people defend them here and there. the roma minority must be defended by everyone. that's enough, thank you very much. we now move on to catch the eye. say what you want, that's enough, thank you, ma'am, thank you very much. we're going to the catch the eye. several members have asked to speak and i can give the floor to a maximum of six or seven members. interventions on request
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr orbán, i will not go into the reasons for those who opposed article 7, because i believe that the two speeches by our colleagues - a nice and gracious rom colleague and a valiant colleague with disabilities - have, i would say, exposed the hypocrisy of those who denounce your government and your country as an enemy of minorities. i just want to say this: i was nine years old in 1956 when all the newspapers and tv news, still in black and white at the time, showed us these boys from your country fighting with their bare hands against tanks. i would like to say that today your courage, your example and the fight you are waging courageously are worthy of that memory, that courage, that yearning for freedom which should unite us and respect those who speak on behalf of a people who, unlike others who only speak words, fought with blood for freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the colleagues who are here in the european people's party for forza italia and the udc, and therefore lorenzo cesa, to say that we do not believe that there are any requirements for triggering the article 7 procedure. i have to say, listening to this debate, i'm convinced that we have something to worry about, because we're a little deaf to each other. if we had listened carefully to what our hungarian colleagues were saying, we would have understood that perhaps many of the things written in mr sargentini's report should perhaps be revised. in any case, it must not be an ideological question, as some of the speeches have suggested. look, we're about to open pandora's box. i do not think that it is the activation of article 4 that is the problem. we must instead ask for dialogue, we must ask for intelligent support. and then, if not, why not malta, why not do the same thing on malta? why not do the same for slovakia, a country where journalists were killed not so many years ago but a few months ago? and why not romania? look at the risk we're taking here! i believe that if we vote for this we will be behaving, as a parliament, like an elephant in a glass case and will have the opposite effect. let us listen to our hungarian colleagues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 september 2018. since we are very late, i would like to inform you that no blue-card questions will be allowed in the next debate and that there will be no "catch the eye". the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the world has had to be artificially divided into two parts: who wants to defend authors and creators on the one hand, and who wants to defend the big giants of the web on the other. i have no doubt which side i 'm on: i have always defended and will defend authors and creators. however, this directive seems to have become a punitive measure against platforms and the network. the internet is a medium that has revolutionized our lives and also the lives of artists and creatives, giving them a truly global stage. what happened instead? that the rights of authors and creators are being used instrumentally to justify maintaining revenue positions in the market. the problem of remuneration for creative content that is put online exists and is serious, but it is not with automated control by an algorithm that we solve the problem. by introducing article 13 on the absolute responsibility of intermediaries, we think we are solving the problem, but instead we are creating an even more serious one, by putting fundamental rights such as freedom of expression at risk and giving enormous power to private multinationals. it is ridiculous to think that the fight against fake news is being done through article 11, which in fact introduces a link tax on the publication of news previews. this directive, which should protect authors and creators, is already obsolete and punitive in relation to the freedom of the net. we in the five star movement believe that to protect the rights of citizens we must look to the future and not continue to apply the old categories of the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, today we met in strasbourg sammy ketz, the war reporter who from baghdad sent us european parliamentarians a letter signed by 116 correspondents from all over europe, imploring us to protect the copyright of all those journalists who are physically on the front lines of war in order to guarantee us europeans the right to truthful information, to a free, diverse, quality press. the same appeal is being made by all the european associations of authors, publishers and producers, in order to protect the cultural diversity of europe. the copyright directive, conceived 20 years ago in a totally different context, not dominated by the few over the top, is a battle today for freedom and the european social model. it is not censorship, because we do not want to restrict the access of citizens to information and culture, but to regulate the relations between copyright holders and only those platforms that classify, organize and present copyrighted content, on which they collect increasing and huge advertising revenues without recognizing and remunerating producers, publishers and authors, and therefore we want to provide for precise responsibilities and obligations. we want a sustainable publishing and cultural industry ecosystem, where power is matched by accountability. we intend to protect the quality of information against fake news and to protect european cultural diversity, overcoming the current situation of an oligopolistic market dominated by us web giants with parasitic behaviour. just one thing: it is not the freedom of the internet that allows spotify, with 150 million users, to still pay 1.2 billion dollars in royalties to the music industry, while youtube, with 900 million subscribers, pays only 450 million dollars. we have a duty as legislators to fill this regulatory gap by encouraging innovative legal business models online, including consumer protection. that is why, after the negative vote last july, we appreciated the efforts of rapporteur voss to find a balanced compromise and therefore the overwhelming majority of my pd delegation will vote... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us clear the field of fake news: the copyright reform does not limit the freedom of web users, nor does it allow for a generalized system of control over citizens. we have to choose between protecting content creators or protecting the big online platforms. we have to choose which cultural model is the basis of our society, whether it is to be shaped by the great global networks or whether it is to be based on creativity, diversity, ingenuity, all the things that have always characterized us. ladies and gentlemen, the decision we have to make is whether to try to give some rules to the digital world or whether to let the online dimension remain a wild west where a handful of big platforms guide markets and public opinion in an almost private way. the future of politics, the future of democracy and the role of parliaments as an expression of popular sovereignty are at stake.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the enormous and rapid advances in military technology, robotics and artificial intelligence, lethal autonomous weapons are destined to dominate the next military landscape. but i wonder whether the alleged military and strategic benefits of these new autonomous devices will really outweigh the risks and dangers associated with their use. i am referring in particular to the difficulty of identifying a single person responsible for crimes that may be committed against innocents, their uncontrolled proliferation, not to mention the risk of error or even worse hacking, not to mention the inability to manage all the contingencies of the case, without human intervention, in full compliance with the rules of engagement and international law. for these and other reasons, i believe it is necessary to begin negotiations on a legal instrument which would prohibit or restrict almost totally the use of these weapons. we have a duty and a responsibility to protect our citizens, avoiding apocalyptic scenarios where killer robots decide autonomously on who to unload their fire load on. it cannot be an algorithm or a robot that decides the life and death of human beings.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the emergency situation in libya and the mediterranean (2018/2846 ((rsp)). this discussion was added to the last meeting of the conference of presidents in view of the continuing deterioration of the situation in libya. in recent weeks, clashes between militias in tripoli have left hundreds dead, including civilians, and yesterday there was another attack on a national oil company. so without a stable government that can control the territory, the migration flows are bound to increase, as is the arms and drug trade that fuels terrorism. so it is vital to support the transition to a stable and functioning order within the framework of the un resolution, but europe must play a different role, a stronger role. we support the action of the high representative, but we also call on the member states to act within the framework of the initiatives of the european union because it happens, alas, all too often, that the member states act individually and end up failing to protect the overall interest of the european union. that's why we're having this discussion. we thank vice-president mogherini and i will give her the floor immediately.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini tells us that libya must see the european union as a strong partner for this country. i would say that this is a major difficulty, given that the report we are hearing today is the very same one that sets out the outline of a european union that looks more like an ngo. i do not see a geopolitical vision, i do not see any concrete and precise indications of what needs to be done immediately. let us just think of the fact, as has been mentioned, that the libyan coast is no longer guarded, since the coast guard has been disbanded, and libya is directly opposite italy, which i would also like to hear praise for the highly stabilizing role that our country has played and is playing, with all its limitations, and also instead of calling for the responsibilities of another member state, macron's france, which has instead taken an action exactly contrary to the interests that we all know well. i believe that we should instead place great hope and support in the forthcoming conference, which must involve all the interested states, including russia, including the united states, of course, starting with our great neighbour egypt, which has every interest in blocking the very dangerous possibility of contagion by isis and the armed terrorist groups. libya is a co-operation of very dangerous forces and the european union is watching. it is not just concerned, and rightly so, with the humanitarian situation of refugees, it is also concerned with politics, because that is why we are here. that's what she'd be here for.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of tension that we have seen over the past week, and which is likely to continue around tripoli, is a sign of the great instability in the country between the various militias in tripoli and outside the capital and of the real difficulties facing al-sarraj. i think i can say that the skhirat agreement seems to be getting further and further away. now, there is no question of the commitment of the european union shown in these years, but i think the main task we have today is to help define a new roadmap for libya, involving all the internal and external actors, including the militias that were not called in the skhirat agreement. the european union's action in this respect is also decisive towards the member states. the italian government must be given a clear message: the european union must not be obsessed with migration and must concentrate much more on the need to play a political role in the libyan geopolitical context, starting with the november conference. and the french government should be reminded that it will not get a stabilisation process started if it wants to play the libyan game alone. in conclusion, i think that the european parliament - now that the president has left - should take the initiative in brussels. we must have as a time horizon next spring, within which to implement the institutional paths.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow president juncker will propose to federalise the eu's borders, not to put an end to the deaths at sea through a rescue and resettlement policy, but to facilitate returns. i therefore ask the commission: i would like to know how many deaths are necessary before you realise that you are partly responsible for them, having excluded the ngos, without reducing the number of people fleeing. the push factor is stronger than the pull factor. i want you to remember the un reports: for two years they've been saying libya is not a safe country. you say that sometimes. so why finance prisoners disguised as border guards, why support an italian policy of rejection that started long before salvini and was condemned six years ago by the strasbourg court? the only thing you can't say is, we didn't know the deadly price of diminished arrivals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, it is time to drop the mask of hypocrisy. it is painfully clear that in libya, after years, the essential process of dismantling and incorporating the individual militias into a single army has never begun. militias that still control the territory, dictate the policy, and help maintain a lucrative system of organized anarchy. the perverse spiral is all too clear: as long as they know that we need them to get rid of the migrant problem, by hiding it, they will have a very powerful blackmail weapon to get political support and money. the little one doesn't eat. there is no shortage of financiers on both sides, and as long as they receive support from regional powers, and also from european countries, they will cherish the constant illusion that if they cannot win militarily, they can at least maintain a privileged position. this dismantling and unification will be a chimera, a vicious and disruptive game by actors who selfishly seek to favor one group at the expense of another, just so they can increase their own influence. and it's time that paris also said something about this, like the crazy idea of holding elections without security and without a legal framework. some students learn nothing from history. in addition, other factors of instability are also present: the situation in the country is not satisfactory, and the situation in the country is not satisfactory. the situation in the country is not satisfactory, and the situation in the country is not satisfactory. we must strengthen the extended regional cooperation with the g5 sahel, of course, but these tasks we have abroad we must first start doing at home. without a system of mandatory redistribution, without a real common asylum system and legal access routes, we will continue to fuel the libyan vicious circle. we need a real unity of purpose, a european position free from particular interests, which we hope will finally arrive at the rome conference. only in this way, by avoiding the usual dangerous games of solitary play, will we be able to do not what is easy but finally what is right.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in these hours we have received confirmation of another terrible shipwreck off the coast of libya, with over 100 people missing, including 20 children and two twins. already 1,450 dead this year. according to unhcr, one in 18 people die. the death toll has increased as a result of the shameful policies of closing ports, the criminalization of ngos and the outsourcing of our responsibilities to libya, which were also criticised yesterday by the un high commissioner for human rights. what we need are legal and secure ways of accessing all eu countries and a european search and rescue mission. you are busy emptying libyan prisons, but as a result of these policies, the number of migrants in detention more than doubled from march to july. libya is not a safe country and it is not a safe harbor. the agreements with libya, as we have always denounced, have fed the militias which are now inflaming tripoli and creating further instability. the libyan coast guard, which does not save lives at sea and violates human rights, is immediately cut off from funding and training. madam high representative, i ask you to make every effort to give the eu a strong and single voice on libya, one that transcends conflicting national interests, to stop complicating the crisis and work with the international community towards a peaceful and lasting solution.
in writing. the world workshop of the future: is what africa is becoming "thanks" to the investment of the chinese dragon. in ten years, the mud and straw houses of mlingotini and many small fishing villages along the northern coast of tanzania will be razed to the ground to make way for a $10 billion chinese mega port. with its investments, china is not only changing the face of africa but the world, without asking for political conditions but only economic ones. there's no doubt about it. the former middle kingdom is a global player that we need to engage with, especially now that trump has announced tariffs on another $267 billion of chinese imports. but commercial interests must not obscure human rights, the indiscriminate repression of journalists, minorities and the use of the death penalty. i thank the rapporteur for having expressed so clearly the call for a clear european position on these issues. europe must speak with one voice and leverage its bargaining power and defend democratic principles against chinese influence.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow we shall be voting on the result of a long process, lasting more than a year, on a directive which is objectively important and which is particularly close to my heart, since it is aimed at combating a hate crime whose social danger is often underestimated: money laundering. money laundering is a global problem, which requires a strong response from the legislator to be tackled effectively. money is the element that allows criminal organizations to run their dirty business. that is why it is crucial to develop rules that affect what is their most valuable resource, the source of funding that fuels their criminal activities. recycling also has a further odious indirect effect: the proceeds of illicit activities are funneled into the legal economy through shell companies. the market is thus narcoticised, with serious damage to the businesses that follow the rules and are destroyed by this illegal and unfair competition. criminal organizations operate like large multinational corporations, diversifying their activities to maximize profits, and they are very good at exploiting loopholes and securing impunity. for example, the proceeds of drug trafficking in italy can be reinvested by buying restaurants in the netherlands or germany, which will remain on the market supported by this financing of illicit origin, regardless of their actual turnover. for this reason, we have been working for a long time on a text which will enable law enforcement authorities throughout europe to investigate and prosecute this crime wherever it occurs. to do this we have ensured that european legislation is aligned with international standards in this area and we have gone further with the warsaw convention on recycling. we have worked hard to complete, as quickly as possible, the institutional process leading to the adoption of this directive tomorrow. i thank all the members present, the commission and the bulgarian presidency of the council for the excellent cooperation throughout the interinstitutional negotiations, which has enabled us to adopt a very comprehensive text, which is an important step forward in the fight against organised crime at european level, and which provides the judicial and law enforcement authorities with effective and decisive instruments. from the outset of our work we have sought to achieve a legislative text which is effective, clear and comprehensive, and which will put an end once and for all to the loopholes in the laws of the member states which are exploited by criminals to escape justice, without forgetting respect for fundamental rights. the directive provides for a common definition and alignment of penalties for the crime of money laundering. we started with the excellent commission proposal and, together with the other shadow rapporteurs, we carried out a lot of preparatory and consultative work involving the leading experts in the field, whose valuable contributions we then translated into amendments to the commission proposal. i should now like to focus briefly on the main results we have achieved with this directive. thanks to our work, we have removed the main potential obstacle to the investigation and ensured that money laundering is punishable. we have in fact eliminated the requirement of double criminality for criminal conduct, which is the source of the proceeds of particularly serious crimes, such as human trafficking, terrorism or corruption. this means that investigators in one member state will be able to prosecute money launderers without having to worry about whether or not their conduct is a criminal offence for the law of other countries that may be involved. as regards penalties, we felt it was essential not to limit ourselves to prison sentences, but to focus on ancillary sanctions which we consider to be particularly effective and dissuasive. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly) member states will be required to provide for sanctions such as a permanent ban on contracting with the public administration and accessing public funding, a ban on exercising a commercial activity or a ban on running for elective or public office. those who are guilty of such serious and dangerous crimes should stay away from public administration. this is also our commitment in italy, as we are already demonstrating with the decree "spazzacorrotti". the directive also lays down rules on the confiscation of the proceeds of this offence. we would have liked to see more effort on the part of the other institutions to meet parliament's demands. my report, which was rejected by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, did indeed contain much stricter and more innovative rules, which unfortunately met with strong opposition from the other institutions involved in the negotiations. i hope that the commission will honour the commitments it made during the trilogues and present a short-term revision of the existing directive on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime, so as to provide for the seizure of assets even for a non-permanent sentence, in the event of the prescription or death of the offender. this directive also contains rules on cooperation between judicial and law enforcement authorities, which, as we have always said, is an essential prerequisite for ensuring the practical effectiveness of the rules. finally, we have sought to strengthen significantly the exchange of information and the obligation to cooperate between the authorities and the member states and, in line with the position of the committee on development, of which i am a member, we have sought to include specific rules to encourage in future ever more effective cooperation with third countries, including developing countries, than with the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an effective fight against money laundering requires, at european level, an organic framework of common minimum standards to provide national judicial authorities with modern and appropriate criminal instruments and to fill the gaps caused by the diversity of the laws of the member states. i am thinking, for example, of the differences in the definitions of the offence of money laundering, or the legal concept of a presumptive offence, or the absence of rules on money laundering in some national legislation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police force. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow is a decisive step forward in the fight against money laundering, terrorism and criminal organisations, and it prepares the way for a wider debate on a fundamental issue, which is now unavoidable, for the development of a genuine european criminal policy: the fight against money laundering, terrorism and criminal organisations. the commission is proposing a common definition of organised crime, taking account of the transnational dimension of the phenomenon and the more advanced strategies developed by some member states to combat it.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. i thank the commissioner, who is still here, and my colleagues who are here at almost midnight. i simply want to conclude by saying that, starting from the good proposal of the european commission, we have had the ambition to do what the legislators have to do, namely to improve the text and to aim to innovate european union legislation as well, to take steps forward. i think we succeeded in some respects when we introduced aggravating circumstances, innovative secondary penalties, such as the ban on contracting with the public administration and the ban on running for elected office. this is also part of a wider logic which we are pursuing, also at national level, of fighting corruption and therefore of fighting money laundering, but it serves precisely to improve the fight against organised crime and terrorism, and we are pleased about this. we expect, as i said earlier, to see the same ambition from the commission in the future. i thank the shadow rapporteurs again and, since we have arrived at midnight, i wish you a good night.
the president of the commission shall deliver a statement on the state of the union (2018/2736 ((rsp)).
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the debate that follows will serve to strengthen some of the positions. i believe that parliament can, in the final part of this term, make its contribution to speeding up the adoption of legislation which is still under discussion. parliament, as you said, cannot and will not be a scapegoat, the scapegoats may be elsewhere. parliament wants to be more and more the heart of democracy, which is why i ask you to start thinking, for example, about the need to give parliament the power of legislative initiative. we are the only parliament in the world that does not have the power to legislate. (applause) you rightly pointed out - and your reference to the need for majority voting was applauded - that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when we talk about immigration, the commission and parliament's proposal for the dublin reform can be approved by a majority, but there is always resistance from the council. if that reform had been passed, there would have been no diciotti case in italy. so i think we can and should speed up. the fact that parliament has overwhelmingly applauded the proposal to proceed by majority voting means that it supports this action. all the proposals on immigration and africa are also of great interest and go in the direction requested by parliament. we have asked for a fund for africa. europe has woken up very late on the immigration issue. if you had listened to the cry coming from some countries and some members of parliament a few years ago, we might not be at this point. of course, africa needs investment, major investment. i agree that it is not necessary - and parliament has always made this very clear - to give only gifts. we need a policy of growth, of sharing, of economic diplomacy. but we must act quickly and parliament will not fail to make its contribution. as with brexit, mr president, parliament wants to be the protagonist. the final vote will be that of parliament and our representatives are committed first and foremost, as they have written in our resolutions, to protecting the rights of the three and a half million european citizens living in the united kingdom. we should also be more committed to employment and economic and monetary union, because unemployment, especially youth unemployment, must be the main social issue we have to deal with. the european parliament, mr president, will therefore be working hard in the coming months to give concrete answers to the citizens. my aim as president is to ensure that this institution is ever closer to our european citizens.
mr president of the commission, in your speech you mentioned the role of journalists as guarantors of the rule of law. i would like to remind the house once again that the murderers of two journalists, daphne caruana galizia, who was murdered in malta, and jan kuciak, who was murdered in slovakia, have not yet been identified. until we know who's behind this, we'll keep pushing and reporting what happened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, the game is over. the opportunity to tell the people the tale of your europe is over. the 'once upon a time europe' that will make families richer and more secure has in fact proved to be a fraud, a failed project, a poisonous project for the citizens, for the businesses, for the families, who have been affected by this european project, making them more insecure and poorer. president juncker, you said this morning: "the people of europe need certainty". you do not know what the people of europe need, unfortunately. the only certainty the peoples of europe have is that they hate his certainties. president juncker, every project should have a self-evaluation, a self-evaluation in the eyes of the european citizens who are looking at you with these eyes today, and you should resign in self-evaluation. the time for making fun of the italians is over, and the italians are returning the fairy tale you tried to tell with this cadeau, which is "junckerocchio", that is, the lies that have been told.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, please remind our president juncker that we very much appreciated his plea for a sovereign europe, but also for a europe in which the euro fully functions, performs all its functions, and above all the strength with which he proposed the application of the bridge clause. we would have appreciated a response from the council. however, i would also like to mention the economic crisis which has bent our continent in recent years, which has widened the gap between rich and poor, and that is why our first priority should be to work for a more equal europe. we need to rebuild a sense of community. we must combat the sense of loneliness in which many europeans live. we must think of a measure for european children, one against unemployment, one against the gender pay gap. in short, the european social pillar must be at the heart of future european policies. only then can we stand up to people like orbán and the many of his epigones we have heard.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened to your speech this year with great attention, and the first comment that came to mind was a quote from gattopardo: "everything has to change if we want everything to stay the way it is". yes, because even today the same mistakes are being made: the commission's attention and efforts are focused on the instruments and not on the policies governing them. the deployment of 10 000 european border guards as a solution to the tragic migration crisis, without first revising and going beyond the current dublin regulation, without a mandatory preventive and permanent redistribution of asylum seekers, but also of the management of economic migrants, will turn this deployment into a mere instrument for the enforcement of anachronistic, inadequate and, above all, deeply unfair rules. can't you change dublin to 27? take note of that. it is a matter of the member states' being able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial and technical cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe is not undermined. if only he had the same courage as he has with the curfew. time flies and can't be recovered. how you want to be remembered is up to you: whether it's the courage committee or the regret committee.
in writing. in just over eight months, millions of europeans will go to the polls to express their opinion on europe. it will be a referendum, and if even a state like sweden has seen the sovereignty-loving parties grow in recent elections, it means that, beyond europe's responsibilities, the wind of fear and uncertainty could influence the outcome of the next election. europe is short of breath because its policies lack foresight. in this legislature progress has been made only in the field of the environment and perhaps in military cooperation, but if, in a time of crisis, priority is given to free trade relations with third countries rather than to the building of effective welfare, this means that a decision has been made intentionally to create a multi-speed europe. and it has not been understood that no one should be left behind because either we are walking side by side or the european dream does not exist because pockets of exclusion are created where it is not even remotely imaginable. i don't know if the european results will reflect the national election results, but the wind cannot be stopped with your bare hands: the commission has already made a number of proposals on the subject.
at the opening of the sitting on monday 10 september, the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 69c (1) were announced. i have received requests from the efdd and enf groups to put to the vote the decision of the libe committee to open interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation adopting the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of countries exempt from that requirement (kosovo). the rapporteur is ms tanja fajon. as regards the other decisions to open interinstitutional negotiations, i have not received requests for a vote in the house from a number of members or from one or more political groups at least equal to the average threshold. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr martin, i imposed the penalty because i enforced the rules. i would remind you that you, together with other members, arbitrarily interrupted the proceedings of parliament for more than 40 minutes. so i've imposed a penalty equal to one-third of the maximum that can be imposed. of course it is your right to appeal to the bureau and the presidency, which will decide what has to be done. as for my disgracing parliament, because i am an honest person, i have never trampled on democracy and the last choice i made was to give up my pension of €3 600 as a european commissioner, i believe that i have thus honoured the european parliament and democracy. i hope you will do the same when you leave this parliament.
once we review the transcript, we'll see if there are any extremes to intervene or not.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
let us now vote. we must not open the debate on the result. (the matter was referred to the committee responsible for opening interinstitutional negotiations.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as was the case during the july plenary, i have received hundreds of e-mails again, which show a total lack of information and exploitation of the issue of copyright in the digital market, particularly with regard to article 13 on the liability of network operators. the result is the right balance between copyright and internet freedom, protecting smes while recognising that large online platforms cannot continue to profit from copyrighted material. the internet is a relatively new and constantly evolving tool which, however desired, since it operates in a virtual world and therefore by definition boundless, can never be limited. but there were principles that needed to be identified to establish fixed points so as not to infringe upon the rights of others. i am glad that, beyond the instrumentalisation, common sense has prevailed in defence of the creative industries and the quality of their products.
mr president, you will no doubt be familiar with the famous lines of a song by battisti and mogol, "how can a rock stop the sea", from the album "my free song". i have had the honour, like many italian colleagues, of being asked by mr mogol, as president of the siae, about my vote on the voss resolution, and i would like to explain that it is precisely in the light of these verses that i have decided to vote against it. because this text is actually a very strong attack on freedom of information, it is an attack on the idea of the internet as a tool for sharing and knowledge. in particular, articles 11 and 13 are very dangerous, because they require that a licence be acquired even before publication and they introduce an automatic filtering mechanism. the contrast to multinationals is made by introducing a different tax regime. instead, this text not only does not mention and does not mention the whole wide sphere of creative commons, but it does not contain any real element of protection for creative work. that is why i voted against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his speech on the situation in hungary, president orbán spoke of lies, lies and witch-hunts. he said that europe was abusing its powers by excluding a country which did not accept the rules of the community of which it was a part. what can i say? i understand the meaning of his speech, which is capricious and sometimes delirious, and i understand it because, alas, even in italy we are getting used to this incoherent style. i think that hungary is a great country, of fundamental importance to the european union, but there is an involutionary process going on in that country which is practically dismantling the rule of law and liberal democracy. after the media gags, the walls, the barbed wire and the detention camps for refugees and migrants, this parliament has finally had the courage to initiate the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union. this is a necessary step to give a political direction to europe, which must not lose its character as a community of member states united by the values of civilization and democracy which cannot be surrendered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report with conviction for the reasons which my colleagues have repeatedly mentioned. orbán has been an example of attacks on the rights of migrants and even abuses against migrants, against asylum seekers, he has restricted freedom of the press and freedom of teaching, he has constantly attacked gender studies, he has constantly attacked women's freedom and he is accused of corruption. in short, there are many reasons for voting in favour of this report. i would like to take advantage of the time i have left to raise a concern here, the one concerning the italian right. forza italia has tried to undermine the sargentini report by its vote today. interior minister salvini shook hands with orbán, who should actually be his fiercest opponent, as orbán opposes any european relocation policy. today the european parliament has given a good signal against racism in europe. i am concerned that italy cannot do the same.
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 2.36 p.m.)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. all speakers unanimously stressed the objective that citizens in europe deserve human dignity in old age, a sufficiently good, stable standard of living and also personal independence. we agree on the goal. secondly, the commission believes that, in the light of the historical development of pension systems, the different age structures in the member states and the different labour and social legislation, the responsibility for pension provision should remain primarily with the member states. you're the one who's responsible. i share the view of many speakers on behalf of the commission that the statutory pension scheme financed by contributions must remain the most important, the central pillar, which then receives a supplement in the member states in varying degrees from the national budgets and thus tax-financed . we believe that occupational retirement provision, along the lines of different cultures in the member states, is also a useful second, albeit narrower, pillar. and we believe that adult private pension schemes, often motivated by tax incentives, as a third pillar have a complementary - not a replacement - meaning. the market for private pension products is not sufficiently developed in europe. and in only a few member states is private pension provision of any significance, with up to 15% of total pension provision. and here we want to make an offer no obligation. we want to strengthen the national legislature by offering a suitable solution, by building a european single market of reputable products. the extent to which these products are then used is a matter for national policy, but it is also a matter for our citizens in all member states. it shouldn't be a commitment, it should be an offer. in this context, we have noted your critical and constructive contributions and will take them into account in the further course of the procedure, but believe that the commission's proposal can be a good basis for complementary support for primary national and private pension schemes in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for this very interesting discussion. it showed that even young people will be concerned in the near future by the pension systems. so it is very important to think about these pension systems. however, the council does not take decisions on specific features of national pension systems. it is up to each member state to take decisions on their own pension systems. the member states retain full responsibility for the organisation of such systems, as was also mentioned by the commissioner. in the context of the european semester in june this year, the council welcomed the fact that in most countries, recent pension reforms have had a positive impact on sustainability by containing public expenditure dynamics. however, on the basis of the economic and budgetary projections for the member states over the period 2016-2070, presented in the 2018 ageing report, the council also noted that the scale of reforms in several countries was still insufficient to curb the increase in public pension expenditures. the council therefore underlined that further steps still need to be taken by member states. the council’s priorities do not refer to the need for private schemes. policy decisions in this area are made by national governments based on whatever action they deem appropriate to tackle their own individual challenges. i think there is also a lot to do for the member states and i hope that every member state will do that. we can only do so much.
the president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. it is a great honour and pleasure for me to present to you today, as a member of parliament, and above all in the even greater interest of the citizens who are here today and who can also watch live, the council's position on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019. i am glad that the austrian presidency has succeeded in drawing up a balanced proposal from the commission and in reaching a unanimous decision with all the member states. we have drawn up a proposal which, in total, provides for a budgetary approach to commitments of eur 164 billion for the year 2019. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i am pleased that the parliament's report, which was adopted by a large majority in this house on 5 july, also confirmed that we have reached a broad consensus on the priorities we have set for the european union for 2019 and beyond. and so we see the council's proposal - together with this parliament's report - as a good basis for discussing and adopting these common priorities in a common budget for 2019. the clear priorities we see together relate to the issue of youth in europe, our common future, which also manifests itself in the strengthening and promotion of youth at european level, growth and employment also as the basis for social peace in europe and the issue of security and migration. we all know that we are facing big challenges at the same time, in 2019. we do not yet know how the negotiations on the united kingdom's withdrawal will proceed. we are currently having major discussions with the united states on trade relations, which are also being discussed on a global level. we also know from this summer that in many regions of europe natural disasters, such as a major drought, are likely to put additional strain on our budgets in the future. the migration crisis has reached a level that is clearly improving compared to recent years. and yet, with reference to the speech by president juncker today, it is important to point out that we need to act here, especially with regard to migration, which is on the move on the continent of africa and where we are called upon to take action to improve this situation. for all of us - and you in particular - 2019 is also an election year for the european parliament. it is therefore all the more important to prove and show that we are able to establish a common basis for our responsibility towards taxpayers at european level in terms of expenditure. the council's position is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter. the starting point of the commission proposal has provided a basis for an increase of around 3% compared to 2018. i do not hide from you that this has been a very difficult starting point for discussion in the council's discussions with all the member states, because in most of the member states budgetary estimates are well below this increase approach, and i also dare to say, on my own responsibility: for the budget of austria, we have planned an increase of less than one per cent for 2018 and 2019. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been able to cover important projects well. the council's proposed position for the 2019 budget is a difference of around eur 1.5 billion from the commission's proposal. this is well below the difference in the proposal of the previous year. it is important that we all recognise that it will be necessary to continue this approach to increase, above all, high-performing programmes and to support priorities as described at the outset in the right form. in order to put the priorities into concrete action, i would like to give a few examples of the measures we have taken: we have provided for an increase of 10% in this proposal for the erasmus programme, an increase of 6% for the subject of the horizon 2020 research agenda, an increase of 25% for the extension of our energy network, an increase of 30% for the infrastructure in this area in europe and, in parallel, an increase of 30% for the transport networks, an increase of 55% in the area of migratory capital, of which an additional 10% for foreign policy, with a conscious focus on our priority subject of the western balkans, and an increase of 40% for the convergence in the sense of the common partnership for the future. we were particularly critical of the commission's proposal, which included a substantial reduction of eur 66 million in administrative expenditure. we see the need to aim for a 2% ceiling to ensure that efficiency and effectiveness in the area of administration are seen as a clear objective and a clear signal for this issue of optimisation and efficiency improvement in all the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union in their responsibility towards the citizens of europe. we have added three declarations to this proposal and to this council position: on the one hand, it is the familiar and customary approach of the declaration on the adequacy of the resources for payments in the field of agriculture and cohesion. and we have added two new statements referring to an examination of administrative expenditure, which, as mentioned earlier, is a particular and important point in the proposal. we shall analyse the large stock of earmarked revenue in this area. and we ask commissioner oettinger in this statement - also with regard to our negotiations - to give a more detailed analysis here in the report. in the third statement, we take the liberty of pointing out an agreement from 2017 to maintain and shape the agreed increases to be budget-neutral by 2020 and that this has not yet been achieved in this form, which is why additional scope is needed in the 2019 budget and budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we have the chance to strengthen the common ground in the coming weeks and months, starting with this debate - a great chance, which is that we have the chance for all sides - parliament, the commission, but above all for us - with our proposal to negotiate and adopt a sensible, sustainable and also correct budget for 2019. i can assure you and promise you that we, as the austrian presidency of the council, will do everything we can to conduct these joint negotiations constructively and to do everything we can to achieve a good result.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we - the council, parliament and the commission - have linked the budget to common objectives: growth and employment, strengthening european competitiveness and security and the abandonment of migration policy. in the area of migration and security, we are grateful that the council proposal does not provide for any cuts in the commission's approach to both the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and frontex or easo and europol, i.e. the central agencies. we are also pleased with the approaches and proposals of the council in other programmes such as cosme and erasmus+. we're counting on keeping to the timetable over the next few weeks. it is the last budget proposal to be discussed and decided upon by this parliament, the second last one drawn up by the commission, and it is the first one to reflect the withdrawal of the british friends for more than nine months. we are grateful that the uk has so far in the negotiations given us an unchanged commitment to fulfil all the rights and obligations of the budgetary framework by the end of 2020 and thus to remain a stable partner in 2019. that means a normal household. we want to talk to parliament and the council about the approaches, and i admit that what the council is proposing are not really cuts but corrections from an increased proposal from the commission. we are concerned about the council's approach to a few programmes. i think the european union should not spare on research. we have, by the way, for years and days, supported by the european council, a 3% target in relation to our european gross national product, but we are only at 2%. austria is one of the few member states to reach 3 or even more than 3%. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the impact of the information provided. we are concerned about the council's approach to the issue of the connecting europe facility. i would mention two outstanding projects: the brenner base tunnel between austria and italy and rail baltica, a project between finland, estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland. in both cases we should avoid delays in tendering and awarding and thus in realisation. this is a matter of the specific approaches to the budget. the same applies to copernicus, where we can only provide emergency services, border control services and other essential services if the commission's proposal is respected. we know that there will be differences between parliament and the council on the financing of the second tranche of the turkey-eu agreement. we should be prepared to compromise on the question of one or two billion, or a division between the european budget and the member states' contributions of between one and two billion. we, the commission, will be critical of administrative expenditure. it is not just the commission that is at issue, it is all the institutions. we have frozen funds for the expenditure on research and development, and we are guided by what many member states have formulated as the percentage adjustment for 2019 in terms of the evolution of public sector salaries. and since we have no pension fund, but of course a marked increase in the member states in the last decade, we now have an extraordinary development in pension expenditure, which is reflected in heading 5. we shall be happy to discuss this in detail in the negotiations. thank you for your factual approach. we look forward to parliament's position in a few weeks' time. we will be submitting an amendment to you in october and i am grateful to you for your personal involvement and for your leading role in the negotiations in the council. this is indeed a clear sign. commitment gives us courage.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a busy day here in parliament. this morning's vote on hungary, the vote to finally activate sanctions against hungary, and not against the hungarian people, but for their freedom, for freedom of the press, for fair justice. then the copyright vote, and i personally came out of it pretty disappointed today. i don't think this is going to be the way to protect small publishers, to protect authors and so on, but maybe we'll have a different, less free internet. and now we come to the budget debate. i thank the minister for being here with us and for his commitment to accompany us and to discuss this budget with us together, but i would like to say a few very clear words to him. this debate, these two months between us and the final vote on the budget, will be a derby. it will be a derby between those who think they want to give europe a perspective and a future and those who just want to control the public accounts. it will be a derby between those who think they can give prosperity and priorities to our companies, our universities, our municipalities, our citizens and those who will instead only have their eyes on the next elections in may 2019. and again between those who want to give real solutions to the issue of migration and those who want to howl at the bad europe that is not able to give solutions. mr president, i think - and i will say this with a joke if i may - that at this stage we are looking at the next budget through a different lens, through a distorting lens. you look at the next budget through the lens of the 2018 budget, and so you talk about the increases that have been made, the increases that you have put in your reading, and i look at your reading of the 2019 budget instead through the lens of the european commission proposal, which is a proposal that is based on the accounts that come in and the reality that the european commission sees in front of it. so you want data? the figures show that compared with the european commission's budget proposal there are cuts of 794 million for research and development in line 1, there are three million cuts for youth unemployment, there are 340 million cuts for agriculture in your budget proposal. so that's what lens distortion is, and we want to work on that. and then there's the big issue of africa and the countries that are the source of migration. we want to take this very seriously. my government says, your government says, all the governments of europe say that we must help them at home, an expression which i do not like at all. but if that's the goal, if we really want to, i say, eradicate and root out the real causes of migration -- poverty, security, instability of governments, wars, and so on -- we need to invest. but in your draft budget there is a cut of 306 million in the fourth line of the european budget, namely humanitarian aid, cooperation and peace instruments. i want to increase these figures. i want to increase these numbers, because i think that migration and migration security can be achieved by investing in these countries. finally, mr minister, commission, i have a few words to say. i want to thank you again and i think the journey and the dialogue will be constructive. but we must explain something to the citizens: i am not saying that the moon is what this house is asking for, what parliament is asking for. i'm coming to the end of this, madam president. this money, we have to tell the citizens, this money is there. this money is available and can be invested, if you want it. i believe that we can work together, the council and parliament, to find a solution to the problems that exist. i would simply say that there is only one way of reaching a compromise on the issue of turkey, which the commissioner has raised, and that is to respect the agreements we have made in the past, and we will certainly find a solution, a solution which will satisfy our citizens and which will give them a perspective. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a very clear answer to this question.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by saying that, after years of efforts by environmentalists to bring this problem to the attention of the general public, it has finally come to light. the mainstream media is talking about it a lot, the public now knows that there's a very serious problem that we're trying to address, and that's important because we have so much pressure on the institutions and the decision makers. so from this perspective, there's a fundamental concern for the environment and for the oceans, which are full of this plastic, but we also remember that 31 percent of plastic still ends up in landfills and as much as 39 percent ends up in incinerators, and so there are also direct and indirect consequences for our health. we welcome, of course, the european commission's intervention, with the strategy on plastics and also with the first two pieces of legislation we are considering these days, because it is important, precisely, to intervene in a strong and legislative way. we have intervened on the file, although it was a good file in itself, given the good work that the rapporteur has done on points which we consider fundamental. first of all, the concept of prevention: we must first prevent and then solve the problem upstream, and then act on what cannot be acted on upstream. we have called for the ban on oxo-degradable plastics and microplastics which are voluntarily included in cosmetics, we have drawn attention to the toxic materials which must be eliminated from the production cycle, and we have called for the internationalisation of costs, that is, the producer must take responsibility for what happens to his products when they are placed on the market and then become waste that ends up in the seas. it is important, from this point of view, to work with industry to get a breakthrough faster than what the policy and the institutions can do.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we do so on the basis of a positive text, which we will support, and on the basis of objectives which are very relevant. i am referring to the strict use of microplastics and disposable materials, and in particular the target that all plastic produced should be recyclable by 2030. i come from a land, the south of italy, which has too often been turned into a dumping ground for the industrial waste of the productive north of italy and europe. i also trained politically in the environmental struggles against landfills and incinerators. for many years now, the committees have been proposing a zero waste model and a truly circular economy. to achieve this, we must completely reorient the production of goods and radically transform the whole economy, and follow the habits and behaviour of europeans and europeans. this is an objective which can only be achieved through a major initiative managed and financed by the public sector. this report is a huge step forward, but it cannot make us forget the contradiction of a european union which votes for positive solutions such as this, while continuing to implement neoliberal policies of competition and profit-seeking, which are in clear conflict with the objectives we are debating today.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the issue of plastics is still a global emergency in a european union which had to finally respond, perhaps too late. even today in the union - as commissioner katainen has just mentioned - 25 million tonnes of plastic waste is generated, of which only 30% is recycled. 31% - this was also just mentioned - of this plastic is still being dumped and as much as 39% is even incinerated, even though we're in the middle ages. and let's remember that some of these plastics, unfortunately, have a peculiar look: it takes over 400 years to dissolve on land. so if someone asks what the european union is for, we can say today that there is finally a positive answer, because we think that the balance sheet of this report is positive. in the meantime, because the aim of reducing plastic waste through prevention is central, and also because the packaging is a good result, which by 2030 will have to be made of reusable and recyclable plastic. we could certainly do more to increase the recycling rate of plastics, which is still too low in the european union, but we have still managed to ban the dumping of plastics by 2030, and that is a very good thing for us. we also asked for a ban on the incineration of plastics in cement plants and incinerators, because they generate emissions which are harmful to the environment and toxic to human health, but unfortunately our amendments on this point were not adopted. but we have succeeded, together with other political forces, in banning the use of oxo-degradable plastic and also banning the addition of microplastics in cosmetics, personal hygiene products, detergents and household cleaning products by 2020. finally, let us remember that we must always inform and raise awareness among the public. the real revolution is when they go shopping in supermarkets, which unfortunately are still full of plastic containers that are then packed in other plastic containers. i wonder why, even today, people still sell peeled fruit in plastic containers. i mean, we really don't even have time to peel the fruit anymore. so if we really want to eliminate plastic waste, we have to refuse to accept buying plastic when we shop in our supermarkets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten rivers account for 93% of the plastic pollution on the planet: eight in asia, two in africa, zero in europe. we must tackle the problem by taking action where we can make a significant impact, namely waste collection in asian and african countries. reducing and limiting single-use plastic products in europe is not the answer. the numbers speak for themselves: the single-use plate represents only 0.02% of the artefacts found on the beaches and is therefore not significant at european level. italy has a significant share of manufacturing industry engaged in the production of single-use plastic tableware, which will suffer considerable damage. at present, there are no alternatives to single-use plastic tableware that provide the same performance and food safety for consumers. replacing them with paper is certainly a welcome development for the producing countries of northern europe, who are also very keen to promote this directive, but it is not in the interests of the european citizens and the environment. we must avoid being swayed by false media campaigns and fully apply existing legislation on waste, not resorting to shortcuts which have no decisive effect in solving the problem but are measures which only impact public opinion and not the environment. let us remember the example of biofuels. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, other members have reminded you of the incredible numbers of plastic consumption. by the time i'm done talking, a million plastic bottles will have been bought around the world. i believe that, as we have been doing these past few months, our first objective must be to inform: awareness campaigns, a cultural battle. we need bans, but we must first work to convince the european citizens that it is possible to do things differently, that it is possible to overcome a lifestyle based on disposal, what pope francis in his wonderful encyclical called "the throwaway culture". and our north, our compass, must always be the circular economy. we need interventions that are coordinated. that is why i have proposed, for example, on single-use plastics, that extended producer responsibility should provide for fees to be paid that are proportional to the lifetime of the product, to its recyclability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a shadow rapporteur, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr demesmaeker, and all the other rapporteurs for the work they have done together and for the excellent cooperation which has led to the adoption of a joint and well-balanced text. parliament's aim is to support the commission towards a new sustainable plastics economy, combining economic development with the protection of the environment and human health. today, there are still too many plastic products on the market that cannot be recycled or reused and that, at best, can only be disposed of in incinerators or landfills, while at worst they are lost in the marine and terrestrial environment, with serious damage to both biodiversity and economic activities such as fishing or tourism. well, we're running out of time. the report which parliament is voting on tomorrow calls for a concrete commitment to a change of pace from the commission and all the stakeholders involved, and sets out a series of concrete measures to ensure that plastics are designed, produced and consumed and that their end-of-life is managed in accordance with the principles of the circular economy. the other point on which our position is very clear is the need for immediate and urgent action to combat the other big problem: marine pollution from plastic. i personally thought it important to include among these measures the contribution that fishermen are making to the cleanliness of our seas through so-called passive fishing. i am proud that one of the pilot projects of this kind, the clean archipelago, took place in my region, tuscany. we also wanted to emphasise that, on the basis of the important results achieved, similar projects should be encouraged throughout the european union and that the burden of managing recovered plastic waste should never fall on fishermen. it will be important that this measure is also incorporated in the new port infrastructure directive currently under negotiation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pollution is one of the most serious environmental emergencies of our time, which requires rapid and coordinated action. we generate about 26 million tonnes of plastic waste in europe every year, of which less than 30% is collected for recycling. the main challenge of the commission's plastics strategy is to produce and use plastics in a sustainable way, in order to reduce waste generation. so we have to act smartly and create the need to close the circle of the circular economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment-related measures, including the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to begin by joining in mrs kadenbach's thanks for the work she has done and also for taking up and integrating what we had already done in the 2015 owninitiative report, for which i was rapporteur. since then, unfortunately, antimicrobial resistance has increased worldwide and in some countries, in some member states, it has even reached and exceeded 25%. the rapporteur has rightly included all possible causes in the text with a view to limiting them, but i would not like this to divert attention from the cause which is largely responsible for the increase in antibiotic resistance on a global scale, namely the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. so i fully agree with what mr eck has just said. we have spent these years fighting to improve veterinary legislation, because we know that antibiotics are used far more in livestock than in humans, and that most of the feed for farm animals contains antibiotics. there are intensive farms with hygienic conditions and respect for animals that are really in a shameful state, with animals living their entire existence on top of each other in very tight cages, among their own excrement and often among mice. and these are animals that are intended for human consumption, that can live in these very dense camps only because they're filled with antibiotics, which then affect the resistance that develops in humans. so, in our view, the key is to ensure that the livestock and aquaculture sectors prevent disease through good hygiene and good farming practices, rather than using antibiotics as prophylaxis. in short, we are not saying anything new today, but we are saying it with the awareness that time is running out and that we must speed up the search for new, but above all pragmatic solutions. so we have to make sure: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on veterinary medicinal products are applied. two, the use of antibiotics in intensive farming as prophylaxis must be prohibited. and three, encourage organic and extensive farming models.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, antimicrobial resistance is a serious threat to human health and economic development. the overuse and misuse of antimicrobials in humans and animals has accelerated the natural evolutionary processes of resistance, to the point that today some infections have even been rendered untreatable by existing antimicrobials. projections indicate that antimicrobial resistance could cause up to 10 million deaths per year by 2050 if no action is taken. the one health action plan will have to play a central role in tackling antimicrobial resistance. diseases in both humans and animals should be addressed with particular regard to the food chain and the environment. the role of the european commission in coordinating and monitoring the national action plans implemented by the member states will be crucial in this respect. the correct use of antibiotics should be ensured by investing more in research, development, training and information, and by providing constant updates for medical staff on the careful use of antibiotics.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this discussion on a single digital gateway. first, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mizzi, the shadow rapporteurs and the chair of the internal market and consumer protection committee for the really excellent cooperation, which enabled us to improve our initial proposals and reach a quick agreement on this file last may. let me begin by saying why this proposal on the single digital gateway is so important. as we all know, the single market is a cornerstone of the european union, but we observe that when crossing borders, many european citizens and companies still experience a jungle of confusing rules, complex procedures and endless paperwork. a survey has shown that more than 80% of businesses see administrative complexity as the number one problem for them in the single market, and this is exactly the problem we want to address with this regulation establishing a single digital gateway. let me go through the three points that i think are the most important. first, we want to inform people better – because most people and businesses are really keen to respect the law, but imagine yourself settling in another country, even for a very short time, and think about how difficult it is to find out which rules you have to comply with, let alone in another language. two in every three small enterprises say that finding out about applicable rules is a huge challenge for them for exporting. as for bigger businesses – this is also very interesting data – bigger businesses dedicate up to 20% of human resources to keeping track of rules applicable to them. even those twelve million people in europe who reside in another member state – if they even find information, they are not certain that they can really rely on it. the regulation will make sure that citizens and small businesses can easily find all the information they need on single market rules and it will be done at both eu and national level via the your europe web portal. they will be guided directly to official national websites that provide the precise clarification that they need. the information must be easy to find, easy to understand, up to date and translated into english. thanks to the gateway quality label, they will know that they can trust this information. but speaking about quality, let me mention one very important thing that you have drawn attention to: the specific needs of persons with disabilities. in this context, i really welcome the introduction of requirements similar to those we have at national level for the commission websites which will be part of the gateway. second, the regulation will ensure that in five years, the most important procedures can be handled entirely online in all eu member states. you are very ambitious on this because this will apply not just to the 13 procedures that we initially proposed but to the more than 20 that were proposed by you. the regulation will also ban any discrimination against cross-border citizens or companies who want to make use of national procedures that are already online. they will no longer be blocked because their phone numbers, postcodes or eid are rejected. the regulation also makes a start with the implementation of the so-called ‘once only’ principle for cross-border data exchange. you rightly insisted that the regulation should ensure full data protection for the european citizens and, again, i want to reassure you that all the necessary data protection safeguards are in place in this regulation. the third point: the commission and the national authorities have already set up numerous assistance services that citizens and companies can contact when facing problems, but still more than 9 out of 10 consumers and businesses – a huge majority – are unaware of their existence. thanks to this regulation, anyone looking for assistance will be guided towards the service that is most suited to help. let me conclude by saying that users are at the centre of our interest. users should not be asked to adapt to public authorities, but the other way round. this is what this regulation will ensure. with this regulation, the eu will deliver on some of the commitments from our digital single market communication and from the tallinn declaration. it will be a big step towards making the single market work better. thank you very much for your valuable help and i am looking forward to this discussion.
the creation of a european digital single market has been one of the political priorities of this legislature. in this context, one of the main challenges is to make the benefits of new technologies directly perceptible to citizens by simplifying their daily lives. the digital single window is a first concrete example. it is a significant step forward in the digitalisation of public administrations and in simplifying procedures for citizens and businesses. the fundamental change introduced by the new regulation concerns the obligation for european public administrations to digitise a number of administrative procedures, so that they can be completed online. it will be easier for citizens and businesses to apply for a birth certificate or recognition of a diploma obtained abroad, to declare ownership of a vehicle, to notify the opening or closing of a business or activity in another country. in addition to encouraging the digitalisation of many services, this regulation establishes the 'once only' principle in the union. this will enable the european authorities to exchange data and documents already provided by the user, thus minimising the administrative burden. the s&d group has been working to ensure that the application of this principle is fully in line with the general data protection regulation, in full respect of privacy. the digital single window regulation therefore represents an important step forward in digitalising and simplifying the relationship between public administrations and citizens and businesses, increasing transparency and promoting mobility within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking an essential step towards achieving one of the objectives of the european digital single market. the digital single window aims to create a single entry point, namely at union level, by integrating existing european and national portals, websites, networks, services and systems. this is key to helping citizens and businesses to take full advantage of the new digital tools and e-government strategies. parliament has repeatedly called for the needs of citizens and businesses to be met in their crossborder activities in the european internal market, and this proposal, for which i congratulate mrs mizzi, means that for the first time member states will be obliged to make key administrative procedures available online, and that equally important information at national level will be available in another official language of the european union. it is a success which we can claim as genuinely european, given the resistance of the member states, and i only hope that care will be taken that the possible exceptions granted to the states do not become a pretext for not complying with the obligations imposed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internet and digital technologies are transforming the way people and businesses live, work, study, do business and travel. benefits for all europeans can be achieved with an open, efficient, inclusive public administration geared towards ambitious e-government projects that provide borderless, personalised and user-friendly end-to-end public digital services. the regulation under discussion aims to simplify contact between citizens and businesses, with problem-solving assistance services by establishing a digital one-stop shop to access information on the rules and requirements to be met under eu or national law. however, the european commission and the member states need to cooperate in synergy to facilitate an effective and gradual implementation of the project and to facilitate the implementation of fully online procedures, fully accessible also for cross-border users in the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, the transport sector is changing fast. if we act now, we can seize the opportunity of this change and make european mobility sustainable, safe, smart and more accessible; european industry more competitive; and european jobs more secure. if we act now, we can lead in setting new global standards. these concepts are well reflected in the draft resolution prepared by mr ujhelyi, which supports more action – including at eu level – in this field. allow me to specifically address three important topics raised in the report. first, sustainability, transport is a major contributor to eu greenhouse gas emissions, as well as air pollution. we are committed to reducing and ultimately eliminating the negative externalities of our mobility. we can achieve this goal through stricter emissions standards, better consumer information, multimodality, smarter road charging, urban mobility planning, research and innovation, and by smarter use of public procurement to accelerate the transition towards zero— and low-emission vehicles. i would like to thank you for your support for this objective. we have several pending legislative proposals aimed at contributing to achieving exactly this. i therefore count on your active support to examine them as much as possible before the end of your mandate. that brings me to the second point: vision zero. until recently, vision zero – no road fatalities on european roads by 2050 – might have been perceived by some as an ambitious but distant vision. today we can be much more confident. the fresh approach we are taking in road safety, with the so—called safe system approach, and our move towards a connected and autonomous mobility are making vision zero a reality. with the third mobility package, we are proposing a strategy to make the eu an engaging global leader in autonomous mobility systems. we propose a clear, forward—looking and ambitious european agenda that provides a common vision, identifies clear supporting actions for developing and deploying key technology services and infrastructure, and that provides a clear action plan. our strategy is based on three pillars. first, a legal framework that creates a single market for autonomous mobility, covering road safety, cybersecurity, access to data and data protection. second, financial support to establish a new partnership with a consolidated sector—wide approach towards research and deployment throughout the eu, including for the coordination of pilot projects. third, an in-depth assessment of the socioeconomic and ethical aspects of autonomous mobility, making deployment suitable to absorption capacity as well as the maturity of autonomous relations. we also propose to make a number of new vehicle safety technologies mandatory as part of the revision of the general safety regulation, for example, intelligence speed assistance, autonomous emergency braking and detection of pedestrians and cyclists. this will make sure that all road users will be able to benefit from the latest developments in technologies. that brings me to the third topic: one platform for connected and autonomous mobility. citizens’ mobility demands are growing, and their attitude to mobility is indeed changing. they want to shift seamlessly between different transport modes and enjoy easy access to travel information. meanwhile, vehicles are becoming increasingly clean, connected and automated, and ultimately driverless and zero—emissions. this opens the possibility for vehicles to become an integral part of multimodal mobility, providing first and last—mile service and inclusive solutions for the elderly, disabled, and young people. before we get there, we are engaging with stakeholders to address some very important enabling topics such as security, data protection, fair and equal access to data, liability and ethical implications, integration of automated vehicles into existing traffic, public acceptance, global standard settings, and many more. this is why we proposed to bundle all efforts and create a single platform, the connected and automated mobility (cam), where all stakeholders come together to push our ambitious agenda further. under the next mff, this platform should evolve towards a fully—fledged partnership for connected and autonomous mobility, combining public and private efforts to escalate the development and deployment of innovative mobility solutions.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is on the move, europe is moving towards a new model of development: a low carbon economy. that's a long way to go. the transport sector is currently 94% dependent on oil and is responsible for over 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, passenger and freight transport activities in europe will increase by 60% and 40% respectively in 2050. the central point of the communication, which i share, is the respect of the paris agreement on climate change and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development of the united nations. but how can these ambitious goals be achieved? here 's the answer: promoting low- and zero-emission mobility, intermodality, shared mobility, the development of automated vehicles through the interconnections of transport infrastructure networks, digital energy networks, digital technologies that will allow the implementation of the fundamental polluter-pays principle, for example with a toll system based on the environmental performance of vehicles.
the future of mobility must be based on certain key principles which are non-negotiable: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that absurd tragedies such as the collapse of the morandi motorway bridge in my region, liguria, really force us to think seriously. it is necessary to ensure that adequate resources, both european and national, are put into the field for cutting-edge projects, which are a fundamental part of a mobility strategy in step with technological development and the challenges of globalisation and climate change. the impact of the transition in transport must also be accompanied by genuine investment in the skills of transport workers. this transformation of the sector and of the production and consumption of mobility must be an opportunity, not a threat or a disadvantage. i think a lot of it depends on us.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the issue of the future of mobility in europe is closely linked to our vision of cities, of urban centres, and how we intend to relate them to each other, but also to how we imagine the future of logistics in europe, the exchange of internal goods and the supply of external goods. more and more european citizens live in urban areas, which are increasingly congested and often designed in remote times, without taking into account modern mobility needs. these requirements have changed profoundly today and will continue to change. but we must be brave and allow the citizens of europe to take back their cities, to make them more livable, more fluid, more easily walkable. this means making important choices for public transport, for its implementation, but also choices to improve the quality of the air we breathe in urban areas, by facilitating sustainable, zero-emission mobility, and implementing public transport at the expense of private transport. only then can we put in place initiatives that are worthy of reshaping a future that is livable for the citizens of europe. as regards the mobility of goods, we in the committee on transport drew up a text, which i was rapporteur for, and which i hope will soon be negotiated with the council, to relaunch, for example, combined freight transport, i.e. to transfer as many goods as possible from rubber to iron. but the future of mobility also means greater security in infrastructure, with a marked increase in economic resources to monitor the state of european networks, especially at structurally sensitive points such as viaducts, tunnels and particularly risky sections. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. the future of mobility in europe, ladies and gentlemen, also depends on genoa, a city which has been hit by a disaster and which has become a symbol that we must all look to to understand how important it is to have safe and quality infrastructure, giving priority to existing infrastructure, before building large projects worth millions of euros.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the dossier takes account of the major changes taking place and those which will take place in the coming years in the transport sector. we are at a turning point, and digitalisation and connected vehicles will forever change the way people live and do business. in considering this, however, we must remember that the real revolution will only be such if all areas are taken into account, and i am referring to rural, mountainous, remote and ultra-remote areas, the inclusion of which is essential for their accessibility and also for promoting tourism. moreover, we cannot talk about transport of the future if it does not guarantee the goal of zero fatalities by 2030. last but not least, they must contribute to reducing air pollution and therefore co2 emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the development of automated vehicles, digitisation and the need to make transport less polluting, the mobility sector is undergoing radical change. transport safety remains the key objective, and as human error is the main cause of accidents, automated transport can make a significant contribution to the goal of zero fatalities on european roads. however, i think the transition period will not be easy, and it will involve not only the integration of automated transport in the current context, including the creation of the necessary connectivity and infrastructure, but also the achievement of a secure coexistence with traditional means of transport. the transport sector is currently the main cause of air pollution in urban areas and is responsible for more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. the transformation of the transport sector will therefore have to be increasingly geared towards developing solutions that ensure environmental sustainability standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by sharing the concerns expressed by my colleague mr hazekamp about the pest committee, a committee which we would have liked to have had the opportunity to provide some reassurance for the health of the citizens, but where, once again, it seems to us that politics is not really serving the health of the people. i believe that today, in this debate, we have the duty to guarantee three things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a duty to demonstrate this, and i think that this house is assuming an important responsibility in this respect too with this vote. finally, let me remember fabian tomasi, who died prematurely at the age of 53 from glyphosate, and let me pay tribute to his battle against monsanto.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital, which is to be introduced in the next few years. the appeal was to those consumers who buy products every day that are marketed with the same name and packaging, but have different levels of quality, taste and ingredients depending on the country. this is a deceptive practice, which is becoming more and more frequent, and it concerns not only foodstuffs but also other consumer goods. we've come a long way in one year. the legislative amendments made by the commission in the consumer package and the resolution voted today recognise the importance of tackling this phenomenon as an unfair commercial practice. we do not want to impose a single or identical product throughout europe, but we want to ensure that bad behaviour is prevented and that consumers are properly informed.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of research which has shown that there are food products on the single market of the european union which are not of the same brand, which at first sight look the same when we look at the packaging and advertising, but which can be of different quality depending on the country in which we buy them. the products may vary according to the needs and tastes of local consumers, but we want to ensure that if the products are different, the labels and packaging must also be different, because the consumer must not be deceived, but must be informed with precision and transparency of this diversity. so this path of transparency, as the commissioner said, can be helped, for example by supporting consumer associations in comparative testing activities, by strengthening the role of the commission's joint research centre, which can support national authorities dealing with market safety, and by adding these practices to the directive on unfair trading practices. these are actions which can make the single market more transparent and closer to the consumer.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while uganda is showing the world that it is a welcoming country to refugees, as it is now hosting 1.4 million of them, we cannot turn a blind eye to events that undermine freedom and human and civil rights. certainly the law that removes the maximum age limit of 75 for presidential elections is now moving several groups to demonstrate against president museveni, in office since 1986 and eligible to run again in 2021 despite his age. the municipal elections in arua led to further dissent in the country and violence that has spread throughout uganda. ugandan police and military have been at the centre of clashes during demonstrations and political debates. the arrest of opposition mps, such as bobi wine, and a high rate of deaths and injuries cannot be overlooked. we are committed once again to stressing that freedom of expression and fundamental rights cannot be silenced by violence. all my best wishes for a good recovery for bobi wine.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president museveni has for many years been repressing the opposition. my peers and friends, political activists, ugandan youth democrats - i'm thinking of mp brenda nabukenya, sam muyizzi, many other activists - have been detained and tortured over the years. today, with the shocking story of bobi wine, the systematic detention of journalists and the murder of yasin kawuma, we see a further deterioration, a further degradation of the democratic and rule of law. i think we need to act today. we have european programmes, and i am thinking more specifically of development cooperation linked to budgetary assistance, which must really be conditional on respect for human rights. we cannot accept that europe is indirectly complicit in the growing abuses against the people and the democratic world of uganda.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rights to demonstrate and to freedom of association are universal prerogatives that underpin all democracies. in uganda, they seem to be not so warned, especially when you see a protest that ends in shootings, beatings, murders, torture and the arrest of six parliamentarians and 30 other people. the result of this protest is more like a war scenario than a democracy, in a country where repression and arrests of politicians and opponents are not the exception but the rule. colleagues, the problem is at its root: we are faced with a president and a government which are violating the prerogatives of parliament and its independence, and this goes far beyond violations of human and civil rights, this is the end of the rule of law. removing ugandan laws that violate the rights to freedom of expression and association, such as the criminal defamation act, is the first step uganda needs to take. i therefore urge this parliament to use the political leverage provided by development aid programmes, in particular budget support programmes, to strengthen the defence and promotion of human and civil rights in uganda.
author. – mr president, the decision to jail wa lone and kyaw soe oo, two reuter reporters, while they were investigating the massacre of rohingya is unacceptable. the military regime wanted to send a severe warning to whoever dares to look into military abuses: a real example of censorship through fear for anyone who fights to uncover uncomfortable truths and expose wrongdoing by those in power, and whoever tries to report inconvenient truths. investigative journalism is the link between the truth and us, and that is precisely why it is vital for democracy. that is why we will always stand up and fight for freedom of thought for journalists, activists and lawyers who express critical views. we must adopt targeted individual sanctions against the leaders of the military regime so long as myanmar legislation is not aligned with basic international human rights law and standards. we urge the myanmar authorities to free the two journalists immediately and to repeal the official secrets act and all the other laws that allow the authorities to arrest or harass whoever fights to inform people about the atrocities they are perpetrating.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini, i would like to share this thought with you today, because the case of the two journalists seems to me to be further evidence that the process of democratic transition is struggling to gain ground in that country, and perhaps it should impose on all of us the need to review the approach in our policies. last week, the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, in a speech in geneva, described the findings of the international fact-finding mission as shocking. i was also part of the european parliament delegation to myanmar last february, and it is sad to see that after months almost nothing has changed. now it is quite clear that the european union cannot stand by and watch. we are not only calling for the release of the two journalists, but also for the use of all the tools at our disposal to try to change the course of events in that country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini, i had the honour of being part of the european parliament's observer mission during the last elections in myanmar. we were struck by the popular participation, the organization, especially of women, on the occasion of that celebration of democracy and of that beginning of the transition to freedom after the victory of the leader san suu kyi. we knew the constitution would be left behind, the weight of the armed forces important and binding. and we also knew about extremist, violent, xenophobic forms of buddhism, and that even then, it was not curbed by the victorious leader. but what happened next in myanmar to the rohingya people goes beyond any pessimistic prediction: it was an ethnic extermination, a genocide, a well-documented series of violence. independent journalists arrested, murderers with impunity, media that incite hatred. we have to say enough. mr panzeri is right when he says that this is enough, that it is not just specific measures that are needed, but that a general line needs to be changed. burma is in a state of flux: if he doesn't move, he'll be an example of shame to all democrats around the world.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about 40 days ago i was in cambodia and i documented and denounced the total absence of human rights in that country. and europe, which is crying today, which is trying to reflect on the problems of cambodia, has in fact been and is complicit in this situation. so if europe really wants to look at cambodia and the issues and problems of the absence of human rights in south-east asia, it must close those agreements, for example the eba agreement, which after 18 years has not brought any opportunities to the cambodian people, but has even seriously damaged the country of italy and our agriculture. we must close that agreement, we must close and stop the product invasions to avoid exploitation in cambodia, to avoid killing the economy and the employment of italian rice and to avoid poisoning our tables too. this is a sobering fact: the life expectancy in cambodia is 64 years. we must not import this desperation into europe, we must not import this problem into italy, but we must deal with it in cambodia. mr president, i would like to conclude with a very quick appeal: i am speaking to those who are today being deprived of their human rights by evicting a 90-year-old man named grandpa mariano from our country, italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 september kem sokha, leader of the cambodian opposition, was released on bail, arrested on charges of treason despite his parliamentary immunity, and arbitrarily detained without trial for more than a year. like him, many other political opponents, activists and journalists have come under the spotlight of hun sen, the prime minister increasingly determined to extend his 33 years in power. in a climate of only apparent democracy, hun sen's kleptocratic regime has censored the internet and gagged the press, dealing a severe blow to the last semblance of democracy with the farce of the recent elections. what we must do, ladies and gentlemen, is to immediately suspend all forms of aid that are not guaranteed by international organizations, and finally decide to have a reasonable attitude towards these regimes which still have trade relations with us today, even at advantageous rates, without allowing the selfish ambitions of one man to ruin the dream and the need for democracy of cambodian citizens who are still coming out and healing the wounds of the terrible khmer rouge period.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the speed with which democracy and fundamental rights are collapsing in cambodia is truly astonishing. in fact, within a year, the only real opposition party, the cambodia national rescue party, was dissolved and its leader kem sokha was imprisoned on false charges. what does the slide towards a single party, the cult of the leader's personality, the repression and the obsession with any kind of opposition remind us of? it reminds me of pol pot and the terrible khmer rouge dictatorship, during which every single rule was aimed at destroying, torturing and exterminating anyone who was even suspected of not being aligned with the regime. do we want to remind that prime minister hun sen and two senior officials are former members of the khmer rouge? how different are we today from the cambodian people's party and pol pot's communist party of kampuchea? the hunt for dissent has remained much the same. historical memory is important so that history does not repeat itself, and cambodia is at risk of exactly that today. i therefore call on the commission to suspend the programme of preferential access to our single market with cambodia and to make it conditional on respect for human and civil rights.
we welcome the prime minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, zoran zaev. the prime minister will be speaking to the european parliament on the eve of a major referendum in his country. negotiations are under way on the name of the state and an agreement has been reached with the greek government, as well as on integration into europe and the nato system. the prime minister came before the european parliament to explain to us what the situation is in his country. for us, as you know, stability in the balkans is fundamental and interreligious dialogue in the balkans is fundamental. so he knows very well that his country can count on the support of the european union, but i think it is interesting for all of us to hear what the situation is in this important balkan state and to understand what the future of the whole region is through his words.
i think that the message from the european parliament for your country is a good message today. prime minister, thank you for coming. you will have our support. your country will have our support for the stability of the western balkans. thank you very much. (applause) (the sitting was suspended at 12.10 pending the vote)
the session, which was adjourned on thursday, 13 september 2018, is resumed.
before we resume our work, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the victims of the earthquake and tsunami which killed more than 1 200 people in indonesia. the sulawesi archipelago was struck by a strong earthquake which, in addition to causing many casualties, caused a tsunami of vast proportions. waves as high as 20 feet [6 m] struck the capital of palu island, the city of donggala, and other coastal villages. according to the united nations, 191,000 people on the island of sulawesi need support, including 46,000 children and 14,000 elderly people. the european commission has unlocked an initial €1.5 million in emergency humanitarian aid to help the most vulnerable and provide basic necessities such as food, shelter and water. the community's copernicus satellite mapping service has also been activated. on behalf of this parliament, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the indonesian authorities and ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of those who lost their lives in these disasters. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) in the last few weeks i have been informed of several cases of personal attacks on fellow members of this parliament, and i want to emphasize that such acts are unacceptable. violence, whether verbal or physical, and disrespect are in no way justifiable, especially if they have the effect of restricting the normal exercise of the mandate which members have received from the citizens. in strongly condemning these acts, from whatever source, i would like to express our solidarity with colleagues judith sargentini, who has been the subject of a hate campaign in the media, eleonora forenza, who has also been subjected to physical violence, and colleague istván ujhelyi, whose image was insulted during a demonstration in hungary. i express our strongest condemnation and hope that these unacceptable incidents will not be repeated.
we will review your complaint and see if there are any extreme violations of our rules.
you know, mr president, how committed i am to this matter, i have been so hard on it that i have even received some official protests from the maltese government. however, tonight, for your information, the matter you have raised will be discussed in the bureau.
i think the house has expressed support for your positions.
your honour, a little flexibility is sometimes necessary.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on 27 september 2018. the following amendments were tabled: monday: i have received a request from the s&d group to put on the agenda as the first item a statement by the president of the european parliament on the imminent demolition of the bedouin village of khan al ahmar. the statement should be followed by a turn of speeches by each political group.
before i give the floor to those who wish to speak against your proposal, i must say that the president's statements cannot be put on the agenda. i asked at the last meeting of the conference of presidents, since the problem had been brought to the attention of the group chairmen and the undersigned by the s&d group, whether there was unanimity for me to make such a statement. there was no unanimity, the proposal was rejected by the conference of presidents. so i cannot speak, although it is my duty to support parliament's positions, so i will always support parliament's position, but if you want to have a debate, that is fine, but a statement by the president cannot be put on the agenda.
but, your honor, this is not a debate. your honor, the debate is later. mr president, the rules of procedure provide - you must know the rules of procedure before you protest - that one person for the group making the request and one person opposing it should speak. i have asked you to speak, you were the third person in the group in favour, i think you should not argue with mr preda, you can say whatever you want, but this is not a debate, you have to decide whether to have a debate or not, immediately as the first item on the agenda. the debate has yet to begin. so, i think that since the voting is quite delicate, i would suggest that we do it directly with the electronic system, so let's see. we shall put to the vote, by roll-call, the s&d group's proposal for an immediate debate. but without a statement from the president, because there was no unanimity in the conference of presidents, i shall not speak, although i remain firm in my support for the document that has been adopted. (parliament rejected the s&d group's amendment) the efdd group has asked for a debate on the verheyen and kammerevert report on the provision of audiovisual media services to be added as the second item on the agenda this afternoon, after the cabezón ruiz report on the evaluation of health technologies. at present the report is only included in the votes on friday, so add a debate today and then vote tomorrow.
let's move on to tuesday. tuesday: the gue/ngl group requested that the debate on the oral question on the eu's contribution to a un binding instrument on transnational corporations with respect to human rights be terminated by a resolution.
the enf group asked that the council and commission statements on the protection of european companies against the extraterritoriality of the law of the united states of america be added as the first item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon.
the gue/ngl group has asked that the statements by the council and the commission on the rise of neo-fascist violence in europe be added as the sixth item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on at the october part-session. i call mr forenza to make the request on behalf of his group.
i would like to thank the house and the many colleagues who have expressed their solidarity with me over what has happened, and i would also like to express my deepest sympathy with mrs sargentini for the threats she has received. shortly after, we were attacked by casapound militants, assaulted and threatened with clubs, fists, chains. my congressional aide is home right now with nine stitches to his head, another kid has two broken vertebrae. that's because we were at an anti-racist rally. this is because we felt it necessary to wait for a young italian citizen, but of ethiopian origin and therefore with dark skin, who was afraid to cross the street from her home, because it was occupied by casapound members, who then carried out the attack i told you about. i think this house should know that in italy alone, from 2014 to 2018, there were over 100 attacks by neo-fascist organisations. the italian government has remained silent, perhaps because one of its members, the minister of the interior, does not hesitate to be represented at dinner by simone di stefano, whom i personally asked a few months ago, on 1 february, to be denied a press conference in this parliament, precisely because he is a member of a neo-fascist party. now, i ask on behalf of the group that there be a resolution on the emergence of neo-fascist violence in europe. i ask this because anti-fascism must be a founding value of the european union. i ask this because neo-fascist violence is advancing all over europe, along with neo-fascist and explicitly racist forces. i ask this with all the more reason and with great concern about what is happening in a founding state of the european union, such as italy.
let us now move on to wednesday. wednesday: the greens/efa group has asked that the title of the council and commission statement on 'humanitarian emergency in the mediterranean: support for local and regional authorities' be changed to 'humanitarian emergency in the mediterranean: the aquarius case and the role of support for local and regional authorities'.
let us now move on to thursday. thursdays: the gue/ngl group called for the debate on the question of animal welfare, the use of antimicrobial medicines and the environmental impact of industrial broiler farming to be closed with a resolution to be voted on at the october ii part-session.
this is the last procedure. the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting on 13 september were distributed. are there any comments?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to keep to the timetable. we will support this commission proposal in its general form, as amended by parliament, and for this i thank first of all mrs cabezón, but also the other co-rapporteurs, because we believe in a coordinated approach to the evaluation of health technologies, because we want to increase the effectiveness and safety of medicines and new medical technologies, and because at the same time we want to reduce the costs and social impact of these new technologies, thanks to a better allocation of available resources. to date, to get a drug onto the european market, manufacturers must first prove its safety, then its non-inferiority to currently established therapies and then their efficacy. but patients will never know whether one drug provides real added value over others, clinically speaking. and that's why we've been in cases like cetuximab, in cases like this, where if used for lung treatment, it costs about eight thousand dollars per patient for a median increase in survival of just one month. or, as in the case of erlotinib, which when used to treat pancreatic cancer costs 15,000 euros per patient for an increase in median survival of about ten days. our health care systems cannot afford this waste that only the drug companies benefit from. the clinical vote must therefore be based on clear scientific evidence, which must be aimed at demonstrating that there is a real breakthrough for the health and quality of life of patients, so that prices can be renegotiated with the pharmaceutical companies, and on the other hand, they must be the same in each member state, so that all citizens of the union are guaranteed the same right to health which is a fundamental right of the citizen of the union, without waste of resources and without overlapping tasks which are unnecessary and counterproductive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the regulation on the evaluation of health technologies will be a major step forward in the european health sector, improving research, competitiveness and therefore the quality of medicines on the market. to date, a very high percentage of new medicines placed on the market do not present a clear technological improvement over existing medicines. competition often focuses more on the name of the drug than on its composition. only 30% of clinical trials approved in the european union involve more than 1,000 patients and are monitored for more than a year, while early authorisations are increasingly common, and increasingly involve medicines withdrawn from the market. we need a permanent system to ensure that the objectives set are achieved while respecting the principle of subsidiarity with a common evaluation methodology. i therefore fully support the introduction of european assessment of the added therapeutic value of health technology and the harmonisation of the criteria for the clinical evaluation of medicinal products, which will lead to a higher quality of research and innovation and the elimination of unnecessary duplication. however, the lengthy and inefficient process of adapting additional evaluation criteria to national specific circumstances must be avoided. in other words, to avoid adopting amendments which would have the effect of waterboarding the objectives of the regulation in favour of certain national evaluation systems. the commission will play a key role in ensuring the proper functioning of the procedure, in order to generate sufficient trust between the parties in the best interests of patients. for this reason, amendments aimed at maximum transparency and avoiding any interference with the scientific process, which must remain independent, are particularly important. the right to health is a fundamental right, important not only for personal integrity and development, but also as a key factor for social cohesion and productivity.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago the world was learning about the terrible situation and the horror in chechnya. hundreds of men, allegedly gay, possibly gay, possibly homosexual, were systematically taken from their homes, taken to unauthorized prisons and subjected to torture. some of them managed to escape and they managed to break free and tell this story. chechnya is a state of the russian federation, mr president, and this does not, of course, play in favour of the civil rights of that country. russian public opinion was also shaken by these events which had been discovered and reported in the press and an independent investigation had been promised into what had been discovered and what was going on. none of this has happened, and to date there is not a shadow of an investigation, of anything that tries to shed light on what happened. i want to acknowledge and thank once again the vice-president and high commissioner federica mogherini for the work she has done, the only western leader who had the courage in a public statement with russian minister lavrov to denounce what happened and to ask for clarity, but today we are still standing here. what should the european union do? the european union must do much more than it is doing, because what external action has done, namely to have lgbti guidelines, is clearly not enough. afghanistan, saudi arabia, brunei, iran, mauritania, sudan, nigeria, yemen, qatar, somalia, these are the countries where the death penalty is still in place for homosexual people. and then there are countries like russia, like chechnya, like azerbaijan, like uganda, like jamaica, where gay people are imprisoned, tortured and threatened, sometimes they are bullied. the european union has relations with these countries; the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. if we really want to be the beacon of human and civil rights in the world, we cannot think that we are the beacon only on our own continent, but we must also be the beacon when we have relations with third countries. it must include human rights as a precondition for making agreements with these countries, because if we do not do so, and i conclude, mr president, we risk the fact that human and civil rights will no longer be the guiding light of the european union on our continent either.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the authors of the question for their outstanding work. the european union’s lgbti human rights guidelines from 2013 help address the human rights issues confronting lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) persons, in particular by setting out measures which can be used in the eu’s relations with third countries. the european union’s diplomatic efforts worldwide on lgbti human rights focus on the following: firstly, combating discriminatory laws and policies and ensuring decriminalisation; secondly, promoting equality and non-discrimination; thirdly, combating state or individual violence against lgbti persons; and, last but not least, supporting and protecting human rights defenders. depending on the country situation, the european union is able to address the issue through a variety of means including high-level advocacy, quiet diplomacy, public statements, political and human rights dialogues with third countries, and financial support to civil society via the european instrument for democracy and human rights. in april last year, the russian media reported on the persecution, kidnappings, torture and killings of gay men in chechnya. this was a serious deterioration in the already very worrying developments in the chechen republic. i shared my concerns with you on this matter at our last debate on this subject. in the immediate aftermath of these horrifying reports, high representative federica mogherini met foreign minister lavrov in moscow, and she underlined that an immediate stop should be put to the persecution in chechnya. the high representative called for a full and thorough investigation into the reports, for accountability by the perpetrators, and for justice for the victims of the violence. on the same visit to moscow, federica met also with civil society representatives for a discussion on human rights developments. the european union and our member states, as well as like-minded countries and human rights organisations around the world, were swift in condemning the brutality against lgbti persons in chechnya. all of us have urged a full investigation into the matter. there was speculation that the investigative committee of the russian federation launched an investigation last year, in 2017, but unfortunately there has been no further news about this, or indeed of any progress in ensuring accountability and protecting victims. since the reports of violence became public, european union officials and member states’ diplomats have liaised with local human rights defenders, international human rights organisations and the journalists who uncovered the persecution campaign, in order to be fully and accurately informed of the situation on the ground and to offer support to the victims. in addition, eu support has been offered to civil society organisations and human rights defenders. such support is one of the cornerstones of our russia policy, as set out in the five principles on eu-russia relations confirmed at the 2016 foreign affairs council. the european union and member state missions in moscow discussed the issue of lgbti persecution in chechnya and coordinated their action. as a result, some member states have granted visas to victims of the persecution who sought asylum. during the current year, 2018, we have continued to issue statements regularly, outlining our concerns at the lgbti situation in chechnya. most recently, two weeks ago at the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) human dimension meeting in warsaw, the european union made an opening statement in which we expressed concern that the reports of arrests, unlawful or arbitrary detention, torture and killings of people in chechnya, on the basis of their actual or alleged sexual orientation, remained unanswered. the human rights situation continues to fall short of russia’s osce commitments and international human rights obligations. the european union has also issued statements in the osce permanent council in vienna, and at the council of europe in strasbourg. we will continue to take every opportunity to call on russia to ensure an effective and thorough investigation into the reports of abductions and killings of gay men in chechnya, and justice for the victims of the persecution. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to our discussion, but be assured that for the commission – for all of us in the college and especially for the high representative – this issue is our top priority.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner, more than a year ago we were discussing in this very house the systematic violence and illegal detentions against the lgbti community in chechnya and the situation does not seem to have improved. over the past 20 months, there have been numerous reports of arbitrary arrests, torture and even executions, and threats against journalists and activists for documenting these abuses and providing support, all in the deafening silence of the russian government. finally, in august, 15 osce member states asked moscow to report on what was happening. i regret that italy is not part of it. since russia has not responded within the deadlines, i call on all member states to activate a mission of independent experts to verify human rights violations. a union based on the values of equality and non-discrimination must condemn this unacceptable trend without hesitation and without even having to go beyond the borders, even in italy homophobic attacks are on the rise. i was in the square yesterday, along with many others with angelo and andrea, a couple from verona who were attacked twice, even in the house where they painted the walls and threw gasoline on them. the commission should take action to protect the fundamental rights of the lgbti community, especially as the italian government seems to be indifferent to this and some ministers are inciting hatred on a daily basis. you're obsessed with security and you don't realize that hate is the biggest threat to the security of our communities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have had to discuss the worrying situation of lgbtqi people in chechnya. for more than a year we have been receiving alarming reports of arbitrary detentions, torture, killings, forced escapes and asylum seekers in europe. this parliament has already sounded the alarm in various forms, with the involvement of federica mogherini, alongside institutions such as the council of europe, the osce, the main international ngos, as well as ilga, allout, certain rights and other organisations. we are not tired of calling on the russian government to launch a genuine independent investigation, we will not let this matter be swept under the carpet, i cannot help but recall the activists, starting with yuri guaiana, who were blocked and detained when they were bringing an international petition with two million signatures to russia, which called for this investigation to be launched. in 2013, the council adopted the guidelines for action in defence of lgbtqi people in a world where there are still many cases of serious violations. so today we are asking the commission, in accordance with the guidelines, to urge the government in moscow again to ensure that the perpetrators of these purges do not go unpunished and that the problem is recognised as such. this parliament will continue to fight for the rights of lgbtqi people around the world, because we have seen how things can change. we have seen this in the recent case of the decriminalisation of homosexuality in india, but this parliament will also continue to fight discrimination and violence within the union. i would remind you that a sit-in is being held in milan, italy, at this very moment, in response to the severe physical violence of a homophobic nature perpetrated against a boy of just 21 years of age, samuele vegna, who will suffer permanent physical damage and who therefore deserves my solidarity and, i am sure, that of the whole of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now more than a year since the russian newspaper novaya gazeta reported that at least 100 men were being held in unofficial prisons in chechnya on the charge of being lgbt people and subjected to various forms of torture and humiliation for that reason alone. a year in which everything happened in chechnya. and here, nothing at all. is he acting normal? we are here to denounce it because the rights violations are clear, blatant, repeated. the purpose of this question is precisely to intervene and as soon as possible. the union can no longer remain silent, without calling for an independent and transparent investigation, while the chechen authorities continue to openly incite hatred against lgbt people. the commission must also, in accordance with its international obligations, establish a dialogue with human rights organisations and russian civil society in order to help those who have fled chechnya and thus expose this campaign of endless violence. and the member states must also do their part by simplifying the asylum procedures for these victims, in accordance with what is european and national law.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is certainly particularly exciting because we may be at the dawn of a paradigm that is at least different from the one we are used to. we are all aware of how much information is the new gold today, and what it means to be able to control, manage, transform and use it according to the purpose pursued. the distributed ledger, or more commonly known as blockchain and its siblings, is a beautiful technology, which holds the promise of very positive change, and the resolution we are voting on tomorrow contains many elements of analysis and push. no one can say today whether this protocol, which allows unimaginable advances in terms of traceability, recognition, disintermediation and therefore peer-to-peer trust, can ever be the new paradigm on which to base a new form of society: dlt is a field that has yet to be explored in all its dimensions. today, the value chain is often complicated, entangled by a globalization that has created countless layers, many intermediaries and therefore many different forms of cost control and other social effects. technologies like these, whether they're called blockchains or something else, certainly allow us to imagine new models of information, distributed control and convergence between the stages of production of goods and services and their use and consumption. i am therefore encouraged by the existence of these frontier technologies and by the fact that they are discussed here, but at the same time i am tremendously both fascinated and sometimes frightened by them, which is why i never want to close my eyes, in the uncritical and passive expectation of seeing how far we will go. i strongly believe that the modern, scrupulous legislator must be maniacal in his curiosity and be careful that we never lose our desire to know what is new in the world, so that we can be ready to legislate in time and with knowledge. we must therefore be able to manage digital technologies with common sense, without stifling them with too many rules or regulating them too early, but also without ever losing control of them, so that we ourselves are not more or less aware of being victims. it's true for blockchain today, but it's true for all of that storm of technological innovation on the horizon, artificial intelligence, the internet of things, bioprinting, the future that's unfolding in a tomorrow that's very near. the text we are discussing today certainly emphasizes a number of positive aspects, such as the potential for traceability of ingredients and components, control of ownership and identity by opening up models of grassroots participation in decision-making and their training or equal exchange of goods and services. in the latter area, i have also been wondering for years how energy exchanges can be accounted for in a decentralised production model and i am very pleased that the commission has for the second year positively received my proposal for a pilot project to study the feasibility of blockchain technologies in peer-to-peer energy exchanges. but another area where i would really like to see everyone involved is in investigating the potential use of dlt for environmental monitoring and thus the possibility for all citizens to participate in a distributed emission control system of all the plants that today load our air with particles and pollutants of various kinds, slaughtering our loved ones in a way that is now ubiquitous. sustainable and equitable development is certainly also about digital technologies today, but the sooner we put them to use, the sooner we curb their potential. the man must always be at the centre, avoiding putting technological ferraris in the hands of a company without a licence. if these technologies will help these goals, and it is our job to make that happen, then i am the first supporter, and that is why i am particularly proud that last week my country's government also joined the european partnership for blockchain, filling an incomprehensible gap on the curtain of the future.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank eva kaili and all those who worked on this resolution. i would like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to discuss distributed ledger technologies and blockchains, and for the interesting views expressed by its members. the resolution to be voted on during this plenary will provide additional impetus and support to the eu’s vision for developing and promoting these technologies during the coming year. the commission has already invested more than eur 80 million in projects supporting the use of blockchain through horizon 2020. the connecting europe facility will support a first wave of deployment of cross-border public service use cases and engage the private sector, including cutting-edge start-ups. we are proposing more investments in the digital europe programme, including for european blockchain services infrastructure to ensure that europe is at the global forefront of blockchain innovation. the commission is pleased that the european parliament shares our view on the need to seize the opportunities offered by distributed ledger technology and blockchain technology, and acknowledges the importance it plays in the digital transformation of european industry and governments. as we know, europe is already host to more than 500 blockchain start-ups. i mentioned in my introduction that we organised the first ever ‘blockathon’ in europe. the aim of this ‘blockathon’ was to better protect intellectual property rights. as we know, this is a real headache not only in the european union, but globally. in the year 2017, 43 million european citizens bought some kind of pirated goods, and if we lost eur 85 billion in this way, it means that we also lost 800 000 jobs in europe. it is really good when young people would like to use this very innovative new technology to protect our jobs and intellectual property rights in the european union. of course blockchain may not be the panacea that will solve all our challenges, but it is an opportunity that we cannot overlook – an opportunity for the eu to lead in new trusted business models and for public services to deliver better, more innovative services to people, in line with our legal principles and our european values.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity for this debate today. it gives me the opportunity and also the pleasure to discuss the needs of rural, mountainous and remote areas. as you know, one of my key priorities for future cohesion policy is a policy for all regions, with no region left behind – no rural region, no mountainous, no remote areas left behind. i have read your report and i share your concerns about rural, mountainous and remote regions, but i think we are already putting in place the right tools to help them. these regions are a very diverse group. you know very well that, for instance, the canary islands are very different to the north of sweden, to give you an example. even within one type of region – a mountainous region – there is enormous diversity. kardzhali in bulgaria is one of the poorest regions, whereas heidelberg in germany is one of the richest. because of this diversity we need a diversity of tools, and i believe we are providing these tools in our proposals for the future. the first tool is the territorial agenda. integrated investments, based on the specific needs of the territory – and this includes, of course, the local actions led by local communities. the territorial agenda includes synergies within the functional areas, because, of course, rural and remote areas do not exist in a vacuum. they are linked to urban areas, while urban areas need their hinterlands. an integrated strategy balance i think this needs. the second tool is about the integrated investments themselves, promoting accessibility and digital connectivity, energy, education, small and medium—sized enterprises, migration, services, social exclusion. we are modernising and updating these actions and i believe post-2020 they will better tackle the needs of remote, rural and mountainous regions. the third tool is about the smart village initiative, launched last year by commissioners hogan, bulc and myself. we have now pilot actions already in place, improving rural services with ict and making villages more sustainable, contributing to the diversification of the rural economy, which builds on the cork 2.0 declaration on a better life for rural areas. we are putting in place also the tools which will work for rural, mountainous and remote regions. as i mentioned, first the territorial agenda and integrated strategies for each region. second, our range of investment tools which are being sharpened to tackle the needs of rural, mountainous and remote regions. third, the smart village initiative, ict at the service of rural and remote areas. these are my first thoughts. i am looking forward to seeing your views and i know that at the end of the day we have the same goal – no region left behind.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. as the honourable member also mentioned, we in europe have intervened, through the urban agenda, in a large part of our territory, which, however, i remember, although it includes the majority of the population, concerns a small amount of the territory. as you know, more than 80% of our territory is rural and mountainous, and very often the mountains are also rural, but not only. we are convinced that this part of the territory deserves attention not residual, what is not urban and mountainous is rural, but specific attention. why would you do that? because it is not true that sparsely populated areas are destined to remain ever poorer and above all to remain essentially rural areas. they must instead be able to develop fully innovative policies. you mentioned the smart villages, and we in parliament are very interested in this experiment, because it is entirely possible that there are innovative activities in this area, which is the largest part of the territory, the one on which we also have a duty, in times of climate change, to intervene by creating a series of initiatives that prevent climate change from being devastating in these places, especially the mountains. so research and innovation is not just about urban areas, it is also about rural areas, mountain areas, the outermost regions of the european union. i was one of the people who pushed for the cities pact and then the urban agenda. we now believe that it is time to start with an agenda for rural areas and for mountain areas and for the outermost regions where the same objectives are pursued, because the objectives are common. the problem is that the way to achieve them changes when you intervene in sparsely populated or structurally handicapped territories. these are our objectives. we want to send a strong signal that we are really concerned about rural, mountain and outermost regions, and in particular that we are really concerned about their inhabitants, who have all the rights of other citizens of the european union and of citizens of the big cities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is important that we should once again deal with the subject of rural areas and mountain areas in this plenary. they are of central and fundamental importance for the further development and the development of the european union as a whole. as you have already said, commissioner, the statistics are not very telling. statistics are an average. and if you look at rural areas in europe, there are very, very successful rural areas. i'm lucky to come from one of those prosperous regions. in addition to these successful regions, there are also regions and rural areas with a huge backlog of development. it is in this second group that you see people leaving, leaving these areas and going to the cities. if we look at what differentiates the successful from the less successful, then the question is: is there a successful, sensible rural development in the area, a real rural development policy? a real rural development policy means taking care of agriculture, taking care of tourism, but also taking care of jobs in industry and crafts - because only then can people stay in the place - and taking care of infrastructure. i think of roads, of traffic lanes, but also of modern roads of our time, which are digital roads and high-performance data networks. and it needs social infrastructure, it needs hospitals, schools, kindergartens. it needs all the things that people need to live a normal life and to have a quality of life that is about the same as the quality of life in cities. and this is what i think urban people often don't understand, because urban people think that rural areas are like a kind of romantic disneyland, a kind of space where a few backward people still live, and where you just have to protect and not exploit. i believe that in rural areas in particular, this link between protecting and benefiting is very, very important. i am thinking, for example, of the debate we are having on large predators. you see how some people think that you only need to protect, but you don't understand that you also need to use in rural areas. and there are our policies that are very important. the commission has already done so. i think that the proposal now on the table to cut the second pillar of the common agricultural policy by 15% is a fatal proposal for rural areas and especially for less developed rural areas. this will cause massive damage to these areas. it is necessary to have a sensible european social fund, it is necessary to have structural funds, and the proposal to create smart villages is certainly right. i think that these rural areas represent a great opportunity for europe. but they can also become a great danger. if we neglect these rural areas, we not only lose cultural and biological diversity, but we also risk natural hazards - landslides, water and so on. we shouldn't risk that. we should look at our rural areas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his contribution to this debate. what we are discussing today is of increasing importance for cohesion policies and for the union itself. the european gdp per capita in non-urban areas is 70% of the union average, while those living in some urban areas have a gdp per capita of 123% of the average. the disparity and the gap are clear to all, and that is why the commission's support for parliament's call for an agenda for rural, mountain and peripheral areas can no longer be delayed. these are the choices we must make if we are to respond concretely to those citizens who live in areas with a significant economic impact, but who perhaps are not yet even reached by the internet, and i say this as the representative of an island which is the southern periphery of europe and which is experiencing the dual condition of being an island and having a rural area of considerable proportions, and then a strategic framework for the sustainable development of these areas is urgently needed, and for the verification of everything that is in the union's objectives themselves.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 18 and 19 october 2018 (2018/2771 ((rsp)).
there are some differences with the soviet union, since the soviet union also caused millions of deaths. i do not believe that the european union has caused millions of deaths.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing president juncker and the council. as for the italian government's position on immigration, we received an explosive situation regarding immigration, because what was created in libya by bombs in the past, by governments that were not represented by us, created big problems. this is the fundamental point on which the council meeting must also focus: the european union is not going to be able to solve the problem of the libyan crisis. a table to find an immediate solution, because there is an obvious implosive risk on a nation that is far from stable at the moment and the flows will be reduced now, but could also get worse. what has the italian government done? at the time we were receiving this problem, it welcomed, and we welcomed more than other european countries, because we took people who very often did not even have the qualifications to be able to apply for asylum. the european union has turned its back on us completely, and the revision of the dublin regulation also requires us to carry out procedures which would make italy the largest refugee camp in europe. there is no european responsibility for this, and what have we done? we have started to defeat the business of immigration, the ngos that brought and ferried these people and made agreements very likely also with organized crime in italy, they have been defeated for now by this government, but a european solution, still, is not on the table and therefore for libya and for this problem should be, precisely put in the forefront in the forefront by the council. as regards the economy, i am sorry, but if we also look at the accounts and procedures of the six pack, since you made some very weighty statements yesterday, i would like to understand why, president juncker, two years ago, when france was to be put under procedure, you said in an interview to the same question you received yesterday that france would never be put under procedure and the rules do not apply to france, because france is france, whereas for italy it is what? is it not a government that you like because it really says what it thinks and tends to defend the rights of citizens for once? so try to understand these positions or in the next european elections on 26 may your party will come to a bad end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years italy has been invaded by 700 000 illegal immigrants. the european commission, meanwhile, was producing a lot of air. what you have not done in these years, we are doing in a few months, thanks to our leader matteo salvini: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. with the new decree salvini will end the clampdown on illegal immigrants and italy will return to security, respect for the law and justice. the irregular immigrants who have arrived in italy illegally, prepare to return to africa. we will continue the revolution of common sense and we will always defend the interests of the italians against this europe that is complicit in mass immigration. macron and the fake leftists are warned. they stop with their ridiculous lies and rinse their mouths before they speak ill of italy and italians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the complex problems we are facing would require less propaganda and more seriousness. less propaganda, i say to my colleague bizzotto of the league, who has made his usual rally. here, the clandestine and illegal activities in italy have fuelled the league with laws such as bossi-fini and the salvini decree will only make things worse. so please, instead of propaganda, help us support dublin reform, which your allies like orban continue to block. enough propaganda, mr valli, who perhaps does not even know that when juncker said those famous words, france was in the process of running a deficit. the problem here is not the european commission, the problem here is that you are bankrupting us with your irresponsible claims that will lead us, in the end, to more cuts and more austerity, and of course no more brexit propaganda. it is time to have an ambitious, serious, balanced agreement, and we are ready, but there are two conditions which cannot be waived and i think that after salzburg everyone has understood this. we need an operational backstop which is not a border but controls which already exist in large part and a free trade area can be built but without tearing the single market apart. we are ready, we are open, but we are united.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for months the heads of state and government have been debating the phenomenon of migration, each time arriving at vague and unrealistic solutions, which are, moreover, voluntary. i would ask the president-in-office: what has changed since the june summit? has there been a consensus on the dublin regulation or has the reform been definitively shelved? do you still oppose so tenaciously the centralised european asylum system, based on the principle of solidarity and full sharing of responsibility, as voted for by parliament last year? you're still trapped in your emergency logic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. yes, i now turn to my colleague mr valli: ngos are now becoming the scapegoats for the italian government's failed and inhumane policies, increasingly populist and xenophobic, and are being trampled in the mud with false accusations and criminalising their humanitarian activities. shame on you! but italy has been a pioneer in the search and rescue system in the mediterranean with the mare nostrum operation, and i recall that tomorrow marks the fifth anniversary of the massacre at lampedusa. to the council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. focus on dublin and not on your alternative solutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, the council promises moments of truth - these are tusk's words - and strong decisions, but then it lives on procrastination. the most striking story is that of the dublin reform, as my colleague kyenge called it, which could have been done already and is now in danger of dying. the council is thus not exposing the lies of the eurosceptics, which we hear all the time in this house, it is not exposing their deceit against the people - as mr corbett said - the council is above all covering up its own contradictions, the contradictions of its members, mr minister, and it is also playing a double game in order to protect itself. how else can i describe it if i am not duplicating what is being done, when it is said that on the one hand we are ensuring a policy of solidarity for immigration and then we are enshrining the voluntary basis. my government has a very great responsibility here, and in this chapter too, as it were, if it is not a double game what your president kurz, who is also president of the council, is doing at this stage, which is speaking of solidarity on the one hand and then doing it, strengthening national borders. it is double-crossing to condemn orban for violations of the rule of law and then accept his nationalist approach to immigration. parliament is very much alone, sometimes with the commission, but it will nevertheless continue to do its part in the knowledge that it is directly elected by the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at the salzburg summit there was again nothing, the usual security obsession with border controls in relation to those fleeing violence and hunger, nothing about dublin or internal solidarity. some even want to make deals with egypt, when we have been asking for truth for 32 months about giulio regeni, a european citizen who was tortured and killed, and still no response from the al-sisi regime. you are thus selling out the fundamental rights which are the basis of our union. macron said in salzburg that dublin must be reformed before the european elections. you finally figured it out. all you have to do is adopt the two-thirds majority view of this parliament which would oblige each member state to do its part in the matter of reception. if you let this reform go unfinished, you will be taking responsibility for the advance of xenophobic nationalisms and for not giving the european citizens the common european answers they are asking for.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to the debate and on that basis i would like to react to two issues: migration and brexit. to start with migration, it should be obvious to all of us that we can only find a sustainable solution to the challenge of migration if it is a comprehensive solution. yes, we are working hard to strengthen our external border protection, but those who believe that we will solve this issue just by strengthening the external borders are delusional. we can only solve this issue in a european way – and i believe by now every member state understands that this cannot be done just individually by member states – but we can only find a comprehensive and sustainable solution if it comprises all elements linked to migration. not just a stronger protection of our external borders, but also agreements with countries of origin for the return of people who do not have the right to asylum, as well as forms of internal solidarity in the european union and the revision of the dublin agreement. why? because frankly it boils down to a very simple truth: either we find a solution internally for that challenge that effectively shows the understanding that we cannot leave countries alone simply because of reasons of geography, because they are closest to where the migration flows come from. either we understand that, or we condemn ourselves to reintroduce internal borders in the european union. it is as simple as that. that is why the commission strongly believes that we need to revise the dublin regulation, but we need to do it in a way that expresses the new realities, which were not known when dublin came into being, and expresses the future reality that we will only solve this issue on the basis of european-wide solidarity. just imagine what would have happened in 2015 and 2016 if all nations in europe had said we just close our borders and we will not let in anyone. what would have happened to greece and italy if everybody had taken that attitude, as some nations have? it would have been a tragedy of incredible proportions, a human tragedy. so leaders at that time took their responsibility, sometimes at incredible political cost, but on the basis of the values i hope we continue to share. let me end on one issue about migration. our sister continent, africa, is at the core of the problem and will have to be at the core of the solution. no other parts of the world will have to take a greater responsibility for the future of africa than europe. only if we understand that the future of africa is the future of europe, will we be able to solve the issue. in that sense, i honestly believe the challenge we are facing – to bridge the mediterranean – is of the same magnitude as the challenge our grandparents faced to bridge the rhine after the second world war, and the challenge we faced when we were younger, to bridge the elbe after the fall of the berlin wall. that is the magnitude of the challenge, and the sooner we wake up to that challenge, the sooner we will find a comprehensive solution to an issue, migration, that will not go away simply by refusing entry, simply by building walls, simply by protecting better our external borders. on the issue of brexit, the british people have voted, and that means that for now, we are all under the obligation to do as little harm as possible. that is in the interest of all europeans, whether they are in the united kingdom or on the continent. and i believe this means trying to find solutions for the problem we face. but let me be very clear: carving out parts of the four liberties is not going to bring a solution. let me also be very clear. if somebody says ‘i want to leave your house but i’ll take the key, and i’ll come back in whenever i like, and take whatever i like from that house’, that doesn’t work. we have to make sure that we come to terms with the fact that the united kingdom has expressed a wish to leave the european union and that we negotiate in good faith to make this happen in a way that respects the integrity of the european union, including its four freedoms, and respects the wish of the british people as it stands. i want to make add two remarks. first of all, on the good friday agreement. how is it possible that people coming from the united kingdom maintain that there is no link between the european union and the good friday agreement? the european union is an integral part of the success of the good friday agreement. it would not have been possible without the european union. and you cannot just brush away that responsibility, which is a collective responsibility. the good friday agreement was one of the most historic achievements of the united kingdom, ireland and the european union, and we are all responsible for maintaining that legacy and for preventing the island of ireland from going back to a past that i knew as a young man, and i hope i will never see again. this agreement was concluded 20 years ago, one month before i was elected to the dutch parliament for the first time. and yes, mr farage, i was elected six times to a national parliament. i would like to see you try that in the united kingdom at some stage – we’ll see. but again, the issue of ireland – i want to stress what jean-claude juncker said – is central to our responsibility to do as little harm as possible in these negotiations, and just to brush us aside in london is completely irresponsible; the commission will never take the responsibility to do the same thing, and that is why michel barnier is doing what he is doing. finally, of course, at this stage emotions run high on all sides. i have some understanding for that, and you have to sort of forget some of the things that are being said with all these emotions. but, i represent a college of commissioners, where more than one third of its members have personal experience with dictatorship, with oppression and with dictatorial communist rule inspired by the soviet union. they have all fought to liberate themselves from this. one of my colleagues, vytenis andriukaitis, was born in siberia. why? because his parents, lithuanians, were deported by the soviet regime to the gulag. vytenis did not know sunlight, what it meant. he did not know what the length of a day was. he had never seen an orange as a child. all these things that he has told me over the years show clearly what the soviet union was. and any comparison to the eu is not just misleading. it is insulting to what the union is, to what we have become. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honorable members, thank you for your remarks and for your comments. i will convey them, of course, also to president tusk. in our endeavours, whether on migration or on security, we should be clear that there is no silver bullet. we can only achieve results through a comprehensive approach and cooperation at the european level. one of your main criticisms was on dublin. you are for sure aware of the fact that mandatory allocation, which is at the heart of parliament’s mandate, continues to be the main stumbling block in the negotiations in the council and divides not only the member states, but also the electorates which you represent. to make progress in finding a compromise, the presidency, in particular chancellor kurz, has conducted bilateral talks with all member states over the summer, in order to find a possible middle—ground. the issue was discussed at the informal meeting in salzburg and we will have a discussion at the justice and home affairs council on 12 october. we aim to present the outcome of our efforts to heads of state and government at the european council later this month. we are also working on the other files to find a solution to the whole package. for example, i would like to inform you about the africa—europe high—level forum on taking cooperation to the digital age, which will take place on 18 december in vienna. chancellor kurz and the president of the republic of rwanda, mr kagame, will host this high level forum, which will bring together european and african heads of state and government, accompanied by relevant ministers and ceos of highly innovative european and african companies to promote innovation and digitalisation as important enablers for our development and also for the future development of africa. there were also concerns with regard to article 7 on poland and hungry. the council is dealing with this issue, as it is on the agenda of the general affairs council on 16 october, as you might know. finally, when it comes to brexit, there is still a high degree of uncertainty about the outcomes of the negotiations, but it is clear that the european union will continue to strive for the best possible deal.
mr president, welcome to strasbourg and to the plenary session of the european parliament. i am particularly pleased to have you here, because you are the first head of state from a balkan country to address this parliament. i am pleased to welcome you for the fourth time in just over a year, and the regularity of our meetings confirms a reality that has become established: montenegro is part of europe, not only geographically but also because we share the cultural heritage, history and values that have shaped our european identity. and as an italian, i cannot help but remember how the history of montenegro and that of italy have intertwined several times. these meetings are an opportunity to anchor montenegro and the balkans more generally to the european union. it's important to give your country a clear perspective. it must be emphasized that your accession to the union is irreversible. your leadership is essential in this process because it is a political path and not a bureaucratic one. you can count on my support and that of the european parliament. we need to step up our cooperation to address security challenges and the threat of terrorism. it is our responsibility to work together, including to manage migration flows. the union must also stand by your side to oppose together the influence of those who want to destabilise us. the agendas of the extremists and the fanatics, the islamic radicals, are contrary to our values. your stability is our stability. we are also at your disposal to help you make the necessary reforms of the administration and the judiciary. they are valuable tools for consolidating a healthy business climate and for attracting even more european investment to your country. now, mr president, i ask you to take the floor to speak to our european members, informally about the situation in your country, but also to give us a picture of what is happening in the balkans. mr president, i give you the floor.
president of montenegro. – (the following is a transcript of the interpretation of the original speech from montenegrin into english) mr president, esteemed meps, ladies and gentlemen, you have bestowed a great honour upon me by inviting me to address this highest house in european politics in my capacity as the president of montenegro – one of the youngest and smallest european states. thank you for giving me this opportunity to inform you of the achievements and plans for montenegro, the country that is the frontrunner in the negotiating process with the eu, and the country that, since its independence referendum in 2006, has been approaching its strategic national goal in a determined, stable and dynamic way. that goal is full membership in contemporary europe’s system of values. i would also like to present our views on the future of the western balkans and the european union. i would like to understand your invitation as yet another confirmation of the european parliament’s commitment and support, not only to the eu prospects of montenegro, but also to the eu accession of the region and the eu’s enlargement policy. so the question is: where is montenegro today, 12 years on, as a country whose renewed independence was met by scepticism by many in the country and neighbourhood, but also in europe and the world? i would like to draw your attention to two of our key achievements. we have strengthened our internal stability and ensured dynamic economic, institutional and democratic development. internationally, we have been achieving – and over-achieving – our very ambitious goals. we have been a nato member for a year and a half; we are a candidate country for eu membership, and there are only two remaining chapters to open. we are a responsible neighbour and an important contributor to regional stability and cooperation. and as a result of all of this, we are a destination for investments and an inspiration for many renowned foreign partners. with the moral and political capital of an ex-yugoslav republic that did not see a war on its territory in the 1990s, we are now developing a civic society of multi-ethnic and multi-religious harmony, without outstanding issues with our neighbours, which is confirmed by our border agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo, the first such agreement among ex-yugoslav countries. despite being one of the least developed ex-yugoslav republics, our economy is the leading one in the balkans today. last year, we registered real growth in gdp of 4.7%, which is one of the highest rates in europe. throughout the period since the independence referendum, we have had average annual rate of real growth of the economy of over 3%, and the living standards of our population are now among the highest in the region. twelve years ago, we were at 34% of the eu average, and last year it was 46%. all the other balkan countries are below 40% and some, unfortunately, are even below 30%. from 2006 to the end of last year, our gdp grew nominally by 100%. consequently, gdp per capita in current prices in 2017 was close to eur 7 000, compared to close to eur 3 500 in 2006. in august this year, the average rate was eur 511, which is nominally around 80% higher than the previous year. the average wages in montenegro are the highest in the region, but still, unfortunately, three times lower than the eu average. this is a consequence of the historical lagging behind of this part of europe in terms of economic development. an important impetus to economic growth has been given by foreign direct investment in this period, with net inflows of over eur six billion, or close to 18% of annual average gdp. we have also been registering very good results in tourism, which accounts for 20% of gdp. we have a population of over 600 000, and last year we had around two million tourists in hotel and private accommodation. of course, we should recall that throughout a good part of this period, we had a devastating financial and economic crisis in europe and the world, which has logically adversely affected our economy as well. insufficient employment, especially of young people, is still the biggest challenge in terms of social development in montenegro for the period to come. it is necessary to strengthen macroeconomic stability and improve our competitiveness internationally through further structural reforms. we have made a major step forward in the euro-atlantic accession processes. last year we became a fully-fledged member of nato and, as such, we participated in the nato summit in brussels and confirmed our readiness to contribute to the policies of the alliance as a responsible and credible ally. nato membership for us is the greatest recognition of our enormous efforts in implementing comprehensive reforms and our contribution to regional and global stability through developing cooperation among partners. our nato membership has produced positive effects, not only in terms of security and political stability, but also in other areas. we have more direct investments from nato countries, and the share of tourists from nato countries this year grew by 25%. our nato accession testifies to an important reform-based step forward for our entire society, economically and politically speaking, and of the results of the continuous efforts we are investing in building rule of law.as a candidate country, montenegro has made much progress in the process of eu negotiations. in the six years of negotiations, we have opened 31 negotiating chapters and provisionally closed three. montenegro has fulfilled all the opening benchmarks, in total 22 of them that were set for 13 areas, thus completing this demanding phase. we have also submitted 32 negotiating positions and we are preparing for chapter viii – competition. we hope that the remaining two chapters will be opened in the near future. apart from competition, there is chapter 27 – environment. at the same time we are committed to fulfilling the closing benchmarks in all the areas in which these parameters have been defined. one should not forget that the negotiating process with montenegro started with the new approach in which chapters 23 and 24 are opened at the beginning, and the whole process depends on the progress of these two chapters, which is the greatest challenge for the region. already today, montenegro behaves as a member of the european union when it comes to the eu common foreign and security policy. we unequivocally adhere to the common eu positions, despite the frequent pressures we are subjected to because of this. furthermore, montenegro is continuously contributing to peace and security through the participation of the army of montenegro in nato, eu and un operations and missions. when it comes to the issue of resolving the migrant crisis, montenegro is in line with the principles of solidarity and humanity, expressing the wish to receive migrants from african countries within the limits of its capacities. that is an expression of our dedication to humanitarian goals forged in the time of wars in the former yugoslavia, when refugees of all ethnic origins at times made up a fourth of our population. economic and social progress is directly linked to the results in the field of the rule of law. during the negotiations in this field, we have passed approximately 70 reform laws, strengthened the strategic framework and created institutions such as the special public prosecutor’s office and the agency for the prevention of corruption. we have made progress in the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime. we know the importance of the rule of law for society as a whole, not only for the negotiations. we are working hard on fulfilling the provisional benchmarks, and we hope they will be recognised in the positive report and the closing benchmarks. we are committed to enhancing justice, creating conditions for a full guarantee of the freedom of expression in the media, and cooperation with civil society; we are supported in this by the european commission, the council of europe and the osce. we appreciate the financial, technical and any other form of assistance from the eu and its member states. we also share our experiences with other candidate countries. we believe that the success of any western balkan country on the european path is the success of all, and we are convinced that the ‘regatta approach’, reconfirmed in the recent enlargement strategy, is a mechanism that represents a true incentive for the whole western balkans. integration of the countries of the region is a good strategy for the stability of the european continent. the enlargement process is important not only for the balkans, but also for the stability and competitiveness of europe. i underline this because it seems that the strong euro-enthusiasm, which was characteristic of central and eastern europe and also of the western balkans, is losing momentum. there are two strong causes for this. it is the dissonant tones coming from different parts of europe regarding the pace of the european enlargement, and also the unresolved problems and issues that have remained open in the regions since the yugoslav crisis, such as the problems in the relations between serbia and kosovo, in macedonia and in bosnia and herzegovina. these two causes are interdependent. the confusion and uncertainty in europe feed the illusions of the proponents of regressive politics in our region, who still dream of reshuffling the region and seek support for these ideas from some important international actors. they are counting on the short memory of the international community. that is why sometimes one has the impression that the destructive tones are louder today than in the 1990s. that is why i believe that the european prospects of the region in the certain and foreseeable future – which were implicitly announced at the sofia summit and in the last speech of president juncker – will be wind in the sails of the pro-european elites. unfortunately, the results of the referendum in macedonia are the best illustration of the problems i am referring to. decades of neglecting the problem could not be overcome through the intensified western support in the last few months. also, the referendum was organised too soon and without enough preparation. perhaps the domestic public should have been given more time to fully grasp the importance of such a decision. however, one should not lose hope that, through a two-thirds majority vote in the parliament or through new elections, this outcome can be achieved. i hope that, in brussels and in other capitals, this result will be understood as an alarm bell and a sign that it is necessary to take more decisive strategic policy steps. what remains is the hope that this will not reflect negatively on the dialogue between serbia and kosovo, which is already very complicated even without this. additional efforts are necessary to ensure that the result is achieved, even more so when knowing that there is enthusiasm, both in pristina and in belgrade. the most important thing is that the dialogue has been established and that it lasts, regardless of occasional incidents and the political temperature that has been raised on both sides. i sincerely hope that all those involved in this process will take into account the traditionally fragile stability of the western balkans and strive for a solution that will be in favour of overcoming this historically burdensome gap between belgrade and pristina and, at the same time, not jeopardise broader regional security interests unfortunately, there also remains the unresolved issue of the functioning of bosnia and herzegovina. there is a strong feeling of dissatisfaction with the results of political players – both domestic and international – in the 25 years of implementation of the dayton agreement. bosnia and herzegovina will go to the polls soon, but regardless of the individual composition of the future three-member presidency, i do not expect either consensus to be reached or greater commitment of leading political structure and individuals to reforms that would take the country in the direction of adoption of the european system of values and integration. it will take a new, broader international action to achieve that goal, with emphasis on the constructive consensus of all keen neighbouring countries and the most relevant international community players, who have a special role in that part of the country. we understand very well the need of the eu to eliminate the causes of the crisis it is going through and to carry out the process of internal consolidation, but we do not think the answer to those problems is to stop or seriously slow down the missionary project of unifying europe. on the contrary, i believe that full unification is the most important part of the answer to all problems that the eu is going through. of course, we are not trying to overlook the numerous weaknesses in the eu’s architecture, but we do not want to fall into the despondency that suggests giving up on this vision. therefore, i think it is necessary to consolidate the vision and fix the architecture. that is the road that will bring the best guarantees that europe keeps its global competition. everything else would lead to its weakening, and despite the differences in our views, primarily due to current differences in the level of development, it would lead to loss for all of us, the citizens of europe. in addition, if the european union misses another opportunity to integrate the western balkans, this would bring a big threat of political involvement of other countries, third countries, which do not share the same strategic goals as the european union. this would hold our region back within the zone of conflict and would make the european continent insufficiently stable and disunited. the process of enlargement and full unification of the eu is therefore an optimal path for montenegro, for the region and for europe as a whole. however, whether this will happen certainly does not decisively depend on us. we will do what we can do, with or without enlargement policy. whether it moves quickly or slowly, we will pursue the europeanisation of montenegrin society with even greater commitment. besides, we are already well-advanced on the track that resembles a one-way street. we simply cannot go in the opposite direction. montenegro does not want to have any other option. when we speak critically of the european union, it is because we believe that, as europeans, we have the right to think and speak about a topic that is our common interest and responsibility, thus we also observe the deficiencies of european policy. we will certainly continue doing so in the future, because i believe that is how we contribute to the growth in support of the regional public for the european future of our states, not the stagnation or decline as is the case now. we do not accept that we must speak of the eu uncritically, as if it were a new religion, but rather we see it as our joint home – the current one or the future one. in the worst case scenario, as the most important neighbour of all of us but without us being members. i am sometimes misunderstood myself, at home and in some european contexts, because of these statements that are tendentious or that are seen, due to lack of understanding, as euro-sceptical. this is not euroscepticism. on the contrary, i consider the idea of a united europe to be absolutely superior, and i see the european path for the development of the balkans as a path without an alternative, but we expect everybody to accept that we in the balkans are partners in the negotiation process with the european union, and not an experimental laboratory of its administration. we in the region can complete this process of further unification with europe much quicker and better if the vision is crystal clear and if the partnership is honest and in line with mutual respect. everything that modern montenegro has gone through is based on, and is fully in line with, the essential values that the european union was founded on and continues to preserve, from preserving peace and multi-ethnic harmony in the 1990s, to the referendum on independence held in line with the highest european standards, and finally to the decisive and successful resistance to the brutal aggression in 2016, which aimed to take freedom away from montenegro and divert it from the european and euro-atlantic path of development. therefore, we are right to emphasis montenegro took a ground-breaking step forward after roaming the wastelands outside europe, together with the region, throughout history. we have finally taken our ship of state into the direction of its natural european harbour, and we shall not give up on this intention of ours. the western balkans region is at a turning point too: it will complete its political and economic transition and join the club of european union states, or it will continue to struggle with its interethnic and interreligious conflicts, complicated open issues, underdevelopment and low standard of living. like a time bomb that can still jeopardise european security. i believe i share the opinion of all of you when i say that all institutions and official authorities, as well as all individuals who are politically involved in any way at the national level or within the european framework, today have the responsibility to contemplate a better and safer future for a united europe throughout the entire continent that is based on traditional values and embroidered with the spirit of the new times we live in. it is very important that the forthcoming elections for the european parliament are prepared and held in this positive atmosphere. the balance of power in parliament will, to a great extent, define europe’s path and determine the future of european nations. i want to believe that this path will be a joint path for us from the western balkans too. with this, i would like to thank you all once again. i want to assure you that you will always have a reliable partner in the small country of montenegro, which sees the eu as a lighthouse we are getting closer to. (loud and sustained applause)
mr president, mr milo, as you can see, the applause from parliament confirms our support for the work that montenegro is doing to move closer to the european union. we hope, as the commission has repeatedly announced, that this process can be completed by 2025. thank you again for attending this meeting, thank you for explaining the situation in montenegro and the balkans. i repeat, montenegro will always be able to count on the support of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the vote.)
i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that today the court of justice of the european union ruled that the european parliament may exercise part of its budgetary powers in brussels rather than in strasbourg, if this is necessary for the proper implementation of the budgetary procedure. the court therefore recognised that the european parliament was entitled to adopt the annual budget of the union for the year 2017 in brussels. ***on 10 september 2018, i imposed sanctions on georges bach, guillaume balas, josé bové, edouard martin, claude rolin, maria arena and isabelle thomas for actions taken during the plenary session of 3 july 2018 that seriously disrupted the work of parliament and caused the interruption of the sitting. on 11 september 2018, maria arena, georges bach, guillaume balas, edouard martin and isabelle thomas lodged an appeal against that decision. at yesterday's meeting the bureau examined the above complaints and confirmed the decisions on the sanctions, which consist in the loss of the right to a residence allowance for five days in the case of george bach, guillaume balas, maria arena and isabelle thomas and, without the right to vote in plenary, in their being suspended from participation in all the activities of parliament and its bodies for a period of five consecutive days when parliament or any of its bodies, committees and delegations are meeting and, in the case of edouard martin, in the loss of the right to a residence allowance for eight days and, without the right to vote in plenary, in their being suspended from participation in all the activities of parliament and its bodies for eight consecutive days when its bodies are meeting. those sanctions, which were suspended at the time the appeals were lodged, are being reinstated as from today. *** pursuant to rule 166 of the rules of procedure, on the basis of the conclusions of the advisory committee on complaints of harassment of accredited parliamentary assistants and members and having taken note of the written observations of the member concerned, i have decided to impose a sanction on mrs giulia moi for her conduct towards parliamentary assistants, which is classified as psychological harassment. the penalty is loss of entitlement to the residence allowance for a period of 12 days. the decision has been notified to the member concerned, who may lodge an internal appeal against it with the bureau in accordance with rule 167. such an action shall have the effect of suspending the sanction.
mr gollnisch, we have heard, we have understood. i should also like to inform you that all the people who have been sanctioned have been heard by the president and the bureau. mr forenza, please.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow this house will be discussing the question of reception in the mediterranean area. i would like to inform the house that in the meantime the crime of solidarity has been established and practised in italy. the mayor of riace was arrested this morning on charges of facilitating immigration. i ask this house to show its full solidarity with a mayor who welcomes rather than rejects. mimmo lucano has my sympathies.
thank you, mr bullmann, i will report your remarks to the bureau.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add to the agenda that tomorrow will be the fifth anniversary of the massacre at lampedusa and that we can also have a moment of silence to commemorate this anniversary. i take this opportunity to express my solidarity with the mayor of riace and to support the proposal of our colleague.
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
mr coburn, are you speaking on behalf of your political group? does your political group agree?
the rapporteur. president, with all the affection and friendship for mr coburn, he obviously doesn't know what he's talking about. and so i urge you to reject his bizarre proposal.
but, excuse me, mr coburn, this is not a debate, we are voting here. you have made a proposal and the house has made its point quite clearly.
on behalf of the efdd group. president. - i would ask that the amendments tabled for the next item be put to the vote, as provided for in rule 59 (3).
that concludes the voting.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights in the business world is a crucial issue for us, particularly as many companies operate in developing countries. yet a global approach to regulating respect for human rights in transnational societies is still lacking. the united nations in 2014 with a resolution of the human rights council specifically established an intergovernmental working group, in order to create a legally binding instrument on transnational corporations and above all to fill a gap between respect for human rights and commercial interests. although the protection of human rights is one of the main objectives of the european union in its external action, in line with the treaty on european union, the european union itself has been very reluctant to accept the binding treaty. it should be recalled that several member states voted against the resolution on the establishment of the working group in 2014. the european union and the member states must commit themselves to playing a key role in this process, maintaining a single clear position and a common negotiating mandate which are currently lacking. i am pleased to note that after much internal debate we were able to put to the vote on thursday the resolution containing the european parliament's position on this matter. four years after the creation of the working party, i would like the council, the eeas and the commission to provide some justification for the absence of a negotiating mandate, allowing the european union to participate effectively in the process. given the differences of opinion between member states on the need for a binding instrument at international level, we ask here today, commissioner, what are the main issues that the member states of the european union consider problematic in this field, in a debate which must be very clear and transparent to all.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that in 2018 the international community continues to witness the systematic violation of human rights by certain multinational companies in developing countries. and worse still, the victims are not guaranteed any real judicial protection: human rights, the environment, the rights of indigenous peoples, the working conditions of men, women and children, all of these things are constantly being put on the back burner by the god of money. this complex issue and all its corollaries were addressed extensively in the report on 'corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries', which i was rapporteur for and which was approved by a very slim majority in this house in 2016. but then the commission, which was repeatedly asked to do so, did not follow up on anything parliament had asked for. now that the united nations has promoted an international treaty on this subject, with a universal purpose, containing binding rules on corporate responsibility, we expect the commission to follow up parliament's repeated requests and actively support this initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a world so interconnected and ravaged by global inequalities, there are enormous challenges that we must face at international level. we therefore call on the eu and its member states to support the un process to establish a binding instrument for transnational corporations to respect human rights. voluntary instruments are not enough, the activities of companies, especially in developing countries, can lead to serious violations of human rights, not to mention the possible negative effects on the environment, for which there is often no provision for compensation for the affected populations. if we are to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, corporations must also align themselves. some of the multinationals that are humiliating work are the same ones that are opposed to the ecological transition and that are evading taxes by hundreds of billions of euros a year stealing our future. it is not just an industrial strategy, but an attempt to impose a model of society which crushes rights and people, and for this reason we must establish common standards and effective remedies which are accessible to all people who see their rights violated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, four years after the establishment of the un intergovernmental working group on transnational corporations, a first draft of the text has been presented. the commission is laying the foundations for a genuine approach to the victims of human rights violations and responding to the requests of the countries of the global south, but substantial work is still needed. i would like to emphasize that this question is not just a question of answers, but of the importance of the union's contribution to the development of this binding instrument. every day, in our institutions, we work to combat violations of workers' rights, land grabbing, pollution and environmental damage, protection of the rights of communities; we are working to reduce disparities, to fight against corruption and against all forms of exploitation. we hope that the daily efforts of the union will be put to the service of the intergovernmental working group by actively participating in the work on the final text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 july 2016 this house adopted the report i was rapporteur for, which dealt specifically with human rights and corporate social responsibility. the text called for the human rights clauses to be binding and for the commission to be more active in the united nations in support of the treaty. i can therefore only be a firm supporter of the resolution already adopted in the deve committee and i too strongly urge that there be a greater commitment by the community and the member states to a binding treaty and a binding treaty for corporate social responsibility and the responsibility of multinationals. finally, the glyphosate case, which, as you know, we have discussed a lot and are discussing a lot in the pest committee, reminds us of how urgent it is.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are now more than 5 million registered palestinian refugees in the unrwa area or in the middle east. unrwa was established in 1949 following the exodus of palestinians driven from their lands in order to provide them with aid. it has also contributed, through european support, to the livelihood of four generations of palestinian refugees. there are certainly areas of unrwa's governance that can be improved, but i strongly disagree with the trump administration's cut, which is proving to be the promoter of a policy that is completely counterproductive to peace in the middle east and the two-state solution, as was also shown by the decision to move the embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem. the 300 million cut in the grant will have disastrous practical consequences: school classes of 60 children, deprivation of livelihood for thousands of families, loss of health care for bedouin communities. and our europe, the bulwark of universal respect for human rights, cannot bow its head and pretend to be nothing. now more than ever, decisive, strong and courageous diplomatic action is needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spokesman for unrwa has said that the choice of the american administration will have a devastating impact on the lives of the 500 000 children who receive an education from the agency, the 3.5 million sick people who visit its medical facilities and the 1.7 million people who are food insecure and the tens of thousands of women, children and disabled refugees. this agency has provided vital aid to more than 5 million palestinian refugees over the past 70 years. trump's decision represents a serious reversal of the oslo paradigm, which is also supported by the european union. the agency is not only indispensable for palestinian refugees, but it also represents the destiny of the two-state solution. supporting and contributing to its financing means working for the stability of the middle east, a region which is also decisive for the future of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today a million palestinian refugees in the gaza strip are in danger of running out of food and water. three and a half million who are likely to be denied primary health care. this is the shame that is happening, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours' flight from us, despite the human rights clause in our agreement with israel, the occupying power. and since the us cut unrwa's funding, as much as 364 million to 64 million in january 2018 and totally suspended since last august, the tragedy is even worse. as a union, we have helped to fill the gap with 40 million, but the agency is still short of another 64 million and is in danger of not being able to complete the activities planned for this year. we cannot give in to this blackmail. we need a further collective effort by international donors, but above all we need to provide a lifeline for those palestinian refugees who do not want to give up their dreams, who do not want to give up their future.
in writing. unrwa is a united nations agency tasked with providing assistance and protection to some 5 million palestinian refugees. the eu and its member states have provided a total of eur 424 million and eur 391 million to unrwa in 2016 and 2017, making the eu the agency's single largest source of funding. in march 2018, the agency raised new contributions of approximately $100 million. the eu alone, through the eu high representative mogherini, announced a contribution of eur 82 million to the 2018 operating budget. president trump has decided to cut off over $300 million in funding to unrwa; the reasons for the funding cuts relate to disproportionate costs, an unsustainable business model and inadequate fiscal policies. how many palestinian refugees are assisted? the criteria for palestinian refugee status must be reviewed. of the 5 million people assisted by unrwa, only a fraction qualify as refugees. the agency has never condemned the ideology of islamist organisations. there is no reason why the pa should not take care of those palestinians who should be citizens of the state of palestine that ramallah aspires to be or to become.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak in this house about the humanitarian disaster in yemen, we often refer to the hypocrisy behind the bloody conflict. i want to give you two emblematic examples today: last friday, the un human rights council voted to extend the mandate of a group of leading experts tasked with investigating human rights violations in yemen. this group of experts had adopted a report accusing the parties to the conflict, already on 28 august, namely saudi arabia and the united arab emirates, of possible war crimes. it is not surprising that riyadh and abu dhabi voted against, much less that both saudi arabia and the united arab emirates are elected to the council, the world's most important human rights body. the situation in our country is even more absurd, as you all know, the european union has adopted a binding common position on arms exports. sales to riyadh would violate at least two of the eight criteria for the position, but if you do violate there are no penalties and no one seems to care. recent cases and controversies in spain and germany are emblematic of the report released on friday, which documents a story of bribery and sale of leclerc tanks by france to the emirates. the same tanks are now actively used in the conflict for defensive purposes, the minister of defence thunders, no more hypocrisy! other countries are involved, including my own, i hope not too much, but on the other hand no member state wants to give up its rich contracts, well aware that its missing exports would simply be replaced by goodwill, or even common hypocrisy. in the shadow of this hypocrisy, more than 15 000 people have died and 17 million people are starving, including more than 5 million children, and a new offensive in the hodeidah area has displaced more than half a million people. my friends, every time a child dies, all of humanity dies, and in yemen, this happens every ten minutes. it is no longer enough to keep repeating the same old clichés and our huge humanitarian aid is not enough. we need a strong and reiterated signal that the high representative must immediately take action to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one need only look at the map to appreciate the strategic importance of yemen and to understand how this dirty war is being waged by distant interests, by those territories which set the united states and its saudi ally against iran and which enrich the arms manufacturers scattered throughout the world. it is these very interests that condemn the population to live well below acceptable living standards. in a state of over 24 million people, 75% of yemenis depend on humanitarian aid, hunger and disease are used as siege weapons, actions that can be identified as war crimes. i think we need to tear away the veil of indifference that hides all this. we must be clear in our political judgement of our neighbours, both the coalition and iran, and we must denounce loudly the responsibility of the various european countries in this conflict. this is where the hypocrisy of europe is revealed and where i believe we have an added responsibility as the european parliament to indicate a way forward for a political solution to this conflict.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proxy war in yemen is continuing, with no winner and only civilians losing their lives by the thousands. the civilians of yemen are the real protagonists of this war, in a country which is now nothing but a huge battlefield. perhaps it is a game to some, perhaps it is enough to eliminate collateral damage and the death of 6,600 civilians and the destruction of an entire country to justify a humanitarian catastrophe of this magnitude. none of the warring parties has achieved or is close to achieving a military victory, but they continue to rain bombs on the heads of the population. this war reminds us of vietnam for its utter futility, where the only results in the end will be the dead to be counted and the rubble of a country to be rebuilt. a war in which there is only one winner and that is the war industry, unfortunately also ours. in the light of the ongoing humanitarian tragedy, i urge the union to exert pressure on the saudi-led coalition to suspend the bombing and lift the embargo immediately. the blockade is preventing access to humanitarian supplies and other essential goods for the population, which is the only one paying the price of this war.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote is historic. our choices will shape the future of road transport, which is called upon to play its part in combating climate change and implementing the paris agreement. but not only that, tomorrow we will have to decide what kind of car industry we want in europe, in our own country, if we continue to stick to the fossil fuel dogma and import clean technologies and propulsion systems from third countries, i am thinking in particular of china where, ironically, the same european manufacturers are investing many billions more than in europe. or if we want to help the automotive sector in the transition to zero-emission mobility, which is already being called for by european citizens and businesses who complain about the lack of clean models on the market. i would like to conclude by reminding you that in order to reap the social benefits of efficient vehicles, including cleaner air and increased employment opportunities in the green economy, we must preserve the balance we have found in the environment committee. the five star movement is on the side of ambition.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to aim at an ambitious plan for reducing co2 emissions from the transport sector, but such a plan must have realistic objectives and not result in increased costs for european businesses and citizens. the current proposed targets force the market towards the electric-only option. the electric car is not a bad choice in itself, but the market and the technology are not ready. we need a major adaptation of the electricity grid, the creation of many charging points, alternative solutions for the production and disposal of batteries which are more efficient and possibly in europe and not across the border, as is happening at the moment. the commission also found that the average price of electric cars in the union market was higher than the average price of electric cars in the union market. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises also need more flexibility to implement the new targets. we must not forget that light commercial vehicles are mainly used by those companies which have already been tested by years of crisis and cannot always afford to invest in the latest generation of vehicles. what is the environmental value of the electric car if part of the energy used to power it in europe itself is still produced by coal-fired power stations? a strategy is needed which safeguards the principle of technological neutrality and keeps the way open to a right mix of technologies which can really contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions and to a calculation system which takes account not only of the co2 emitted by the vehicle but also of the overall life cycle balance of the vehicle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think this debate is reaching the point of equilibrium. it started off on a not particularly balanced level, i was a rapporteur on this matter both in the committee on industry and in the committee on transport, and i must say that there were moments in the discussions which are not exactly theatrical and picturesque. i have had colleagues who, compared with the commission's 30% proposal which we considered balanced, had the courage to propose a 75% target saying that perhaps it was still too low. today we have reached a point where the future of clean mobility in europe is finally at stake, together with the future of european industry. we must discuss as politicians not our obsessions but how to transfer this, which is a categorical environmental imperative, to the possible industrial challenge we face. we have an automobile industry which has made us great in the world and which employs so many of us in europe, we must create the conditions for those jobs which will be changed because of the inevitable change in the mobility landscape to see a new outlet, for example, the subject of batteries has been discussed, so having a european battery industry will be a major challenge. these things are done with a proper, moderate and competent approach. anyone who has to put himself forward in these discussions is doing the european union harm. the european union is a gradual process accompanied by intelligence and competence. i think your proposal goes in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is moving towards a new model of development, a low-carbon economy. that's the challenge, while today the transport sector is still 94% dependent on oil and is responsible for over 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. the aim of this regulation is to have cars on the road that pollute less and consume less fuel, to the benefit of the health and pockets of european citizens, as well as the environment. but it is not enough to set ambitious new targets for reducing car emissions, it is important to ensure that the paper-based emissions certificate corresponds to the real one. and so i agree with the article in the regulation which proposes the introduction of a test of emissions in real driving conditions on the road, to avoid new scandals like dieselgate. the commission has also proposed that the whole life cycle of emissions from vehicles be analysed. it is not enough to measure pollutants at the boiling point, at the discharge in the years of operation, but also to take into account the production and disposal phases.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our objectives are clear: 45% less co2 emissions by 2030, plus 40% of zero-emission or low-impact cars, to meet the paris targets, to protect our health, to make the european car industry more competitive. we socialists and democrats, in this transitional phase of industrial conversion, must ensure that workers and technicians do not pay the bill. the world's automobile industry is undergoing major transformation. europe cannot stand still, it can and must become the world leader in the production of electric cars, low-emission hybrid cars. without courage and ambition, europe will lose the global automotive challenge and we will have more pollution and less employment. with the proposals voted by the committee on the environment, we shall have a regulation which brings together development, work and environmental quality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is the only one which continues to increase its greenhouse gas emissions. according to who, air pollution kills 7 million people every year, and 9 out of 10 people in the world breathe air with very high levels of pollutants. the black shirt of europe is italy, where smog kills 91,000 people a year. the new regulation to reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles addresses the environmental and industrial issue, to reduce pollution through the transition to electric transport modes and to ensure the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. i agree with mrs dalli, whom i thank, we must be ambitious. we need a common strategic framework for sustainable vehicles, infrastructure, electricity grids, battery production, supply and recycling where economic incentives and employment incentives go hand in hand at national, union, regional and local level.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, plundering every day with an unfair tax and thinking that simplification is the solution is not going to get us very far. i would like to show this sign, two billion is italian vat paid to the european cart. i would have liked to have thought about how to spend vat and how to reduce this waste. it is unthinkable that 2 billion italian vat should finance the reception, finance the double headquarters, this one, which hosts us in brussels, a useless headquarters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then you think, we are talking about a quarter of the goods, that is, i buy a good and for a quarter i am looted by the state and europe and you think that the italian people and the european people should be happy with these choices. italian families feel punished. so they are struck by a europe that must be changed.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i want to thank all of you for this debate which shows the high interest and need for deep reform of the european vat system. there is significant progress that we have already made, because, since 2015, new rules for sales of e—services online came into force which allows member states to collect vat where the consumer is based, through a one—stop shop. member states have also now agreed to extend this new system to services and goods online, delivering another boost for vat collection in the european union. as i mentioned in the introduction, the european union has also recently agreed on a ground—breaking new framework to exchange more information and boost cooperation between national tax authorities and law enforcement authorities. however, after all the fundamental reform, a european union vat definitive system is still to be adopted by the council. in his state of the union speech, president juncker called for an end of unanimity in taxation policy. unanimity can block proposals that are in the interests of the majority and thus prevent companies and citizens from benefiting from a full single market. the commission will play its role in the reflection towards a chain of rules by presenting a communication in the coming months on qualified majority voting in the field of taxation. with your support, i am confident that the two proposals you will vote on will benefit from broad support and that progress can be achieved on all vat proposals in the coming months. finally, in reply to the question from mr arthuis, yes, the horse sector can benefit from vat reduced rates if the member state so decides. commission statement(in writing) the commission and the council are aware of a certain divergence in the vat treatment of independent groups of persons that pool their services and share costs between their members. the council and the commission recognize the need to clarify such vat rules on independent groups of persons. the commission will analyse this matter in detail in a study to be launched shortly with a view, subject to its right of initiative, to a possible proposal.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, you have invited the presidency to speak on behalf of the council on a topic of common concern, namely how the eu can respond to politically motivated violence. i am grateful to have this opportunity. first, i would like to express my sympathy to ms forenza, who was attacked in bari a week ago, and who informed us on monday at the opening session. such attacks, especially against a member of the european parliament and her staff, have no place in europe. it is our joint responsibility to safeguard the values on which the union is founded. eu values are the backbone of the union and encompass pluralism, tolerance, justice and fundamental rights. among the fundamental rights, the charter of fundamental rights includes freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly. any politically motivated attack on a peaceful demonstration is an attack on our common values. the use of violence for political reasons to forbid others to express their ideas is unjustifiable in our open democratic societies. we are appalled by the most recent violent incidents in several member states. evidence from different sources, such as the eu agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe, confirms an alarming increase in intolerance and hatred in europe. whatever the source might be, let me be clear that there is no justification for this. at eu level, the council attaches great importance to ensuring the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia and other relevant hate crime laws at national level. the council constantly calls upon member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. at national level, it is for law enforcement authorities and the national courts to protect fundamental rights when these are attacked by political extremists. let me also underline the important role of education and youth work. in my capacity as a youth minister, i want to stress the need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and conflict resolution skills in learning processes. i would like to conclude by stressing how important it is to prevent our societies from becoming dominated by hatred. we are therefore obliged to take all incidents of this kind seriously and never ignore them.
member of the commission. – mr president, we have all seen shocking cases of neo—fascist violence in europe in recent months, including the shooting of six people of immigrant background in macerata, italy, the violent far-right protests that followed, and a fatal stabbing which sparked racial tensions in the german city of chemnitz. according to the latest data we have, there are roughly four anti-semitic incidents per day in france, the united kingdom and germany. we expect member states to act forcefully against crimes committed by neo—nazi groups – whether in the streets, in football arenas or in the targeting of places of worship or asylum shelters. however, we also have to look at where this violence comes from. societal polarisation has increased, not least in the social media. we read and talk to the like-minded, and this increases the polarisation of our societies. as a society, we need to step up action against racism, intolerance and the toxic narratives which are shrinking the space for well-informed and democratic discussion in the public sphere and are polarising our societies. we have our charter of fundamental rights and we have to make clear that its basic principles really matter: that they are not negotiable. but we have to ensure that people in europe can also relate to them. these principles should become an anchor in the fast-changing and sometimes confusing world. simply, they should be the bedrock of our society. for me, i understand the key principles as follows: equality before the law; no tolerance for discrimination; freedom of speech, but with limits to exclude, for instance, speech calling for violence; freedom of religion within the limits of the legal order; and access to justice for all, not only the privileged or the rich. and finally, among the main principles, i want to mention the right of feeling secure, of feeling safe, but not at the expense of the safety of others. these principles can only work if they are applied and visible in people’s everyday lives. the commission is leading the work on countering the increasingly worrying phenomenon of illegal online hate speech. we are working intensively with member states to step up the implementation of eu law to combat racism and xenophobia and to ensure that prompt investigation, prosecution and proportionate sanctioning become a reality in the eu member states. the intent is to be practical, and we are striving to make a difference on the ground. our work with member states includes the compilation of promising practices and guiding principles on key issues such as hate-crime training and hate-crime victim support. we will also present a comprehensive guidance document on the practical application of the framework decision on combating racism. i consider these issues very important because they also send strong signals that hate crime and illegal hate speech are not tolerated and will be penalised. we too, as individual politicians, have a role to play in avoiding divisive attitudes and in sticking to the norms. this is the moment to stand up for the principles of our charter. and the independent media also have their role to play here: it is their responsibility to counter discourse that sows division, spreads disinformation and encourages exclusion. the media are also instrumental in holding politicians to account and in defining the limits of what is acceptable and what is unacceptable in society. the commission is also tackling the worrying rise of far-right violent extremism under its radicalisation policies. the radicalisation awareness network has dedicated, and will continue to dedicate, its efforts, inter alia, to training frontline practitioners – police officers and prison staff – on how to address far-right extremism and all manifestations of polarisation. overall, i can assure you, honourable members, that this is a priority issue for the commission and that we are working with all the relevant actors, including in law enforcement, civil society and industry, especially the digital industry, to tackle all these problems not only through the law but also in our work to foster a more tolerant, safer and law-abiding society.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and it has been asked to do so. for too long national parliaments and the european union have ignored the emergence of a new and violent wave of nationalism. let 's face it . the multiple economic and institutional crises have led to the resurgence of the darkest spot in our history. we, as members of a democratic institution, cannot accept intolerance. for the good and freedom of all, we must oppose nationalist violence by upholding the fundamental principles enshrined in the founding treaties of the european union. if we are not able to do so, we will find in the national parliaments and here in this european parliament the detractors of human rights who will open their doors wide, our doors, and tear the union apart. we see the repercussions of intolerance and hatred in our society every day: insults, assaults, punitive expeditions, raids against minorities and racist blitz. these are daily occurrences, fuelled by the whirlwind of heightened hatred and propaganda slogans, in an atmosphere of endless election campaigning. propaganda against immigrants, against roma, against people of african descent, precisely afro-phobia, against jews or muslims, against minorities. populist political forces blame their failures on the weakest, never looking at the public good and lying shamelessly. the new european nationalists have chosen rather strange terminologies to call themselves: golden dawn, the house of pound, forza nuova, the national front, jobbik, to name but a few. these and other parties that pretend to be more moderate are only perpetuating their violence. they are even willing to make inconsistent deals to sell some of their defeatist propaganda. but the only things that populist and nationalist parties share are anti-european sentiment, xenophobia and racism. the democratic forces must therefore react, united and strong. we must defend our states and our union in order to save freedom, equality, human rights, the rule of law, pluralism and solidarity.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. nice to meet you. two words that should be a wake-up call to the european union and to this house because the fascists have struck again. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of refugees to return to their homes. two words that remind us that europe was born from the defeat of nazi-fascism and that it can only be reborn today by taking up the testimony of partisans. i come from a member state whose constitution is anti-fascist, but where the home secretary enjoys going to dinner with members of the house of pound and celebrating the arrest of mimmo lucano. casa pound are the squad members who attacked and threatened me and other anti-racist activists on friday, september 21 in bari, and i still find threats on my facebook page from people who urge 7 black men to rape me because racism and sexism are the matrix of fascism. finally, i would remind you that we must demand that the european union be antifascist, that antifascism be a founding value of the union and that we must demand the closure of all fascist offices, and i dedicate this speech to begni, auro, dax, renato and all the comrades who have been victims of neo-fascist violence.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly grotesque to hear about the fascist danger 75, 73, 74 years after the end of the war and the civil wars and therefore also of historical fascism. you're just thinking about it all the time, and it must be a freudian and grotesque phenomenon, because fascism is no more. this debate reminds me of a very enlightening sentence by a great italian intellectual, and certainly antifascist, pier paolo pasolini, who warned against those who flaunt the fascist danger, saying, is it not perhaps "a weapon of mass distraction" to ignore what is real fascism, financial fascism against which those who arm themselves against black-shirted boys, perhaps violent - in some cases we condemn, in this specific case - and do not do anything at all to fight financial fascism, as the populists do, we populists who have not forgotten the 5 million poor, to whom the previous governments gave nothing, we, populists, nationalists, so-called fascists, have thought about it. and you never did shit!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question directed specifically to mr jurek, because the use of certain words in this house is inadmissible. i saw that there was no reaction. i would ask the presidency to listen again to the last part of what mr borghezio said and to judge those very words, because i have waited a long time but have not seen any reaction and i would ask you to hear them again to decide on the case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a dangerous nationalist and fascist resurgence in far too many of our countries. we are seeing in italy, as eleonora recalled, over 100 fascist attacks in the last five years. today we have a new one: some people fill their mouths with security, but with their daily hate propaganda they are legitimizing violence and actually making our cities less safe. we saw it in bari. i would like to express once again my solidarity and my heartfelt embrace to eleanor, claudio, antonio and giacomo. mr president, commissioner, this is what is happening in italy today, where fascist organisations are running around with batons in hand and fists in their pockets, and some minister has given them political cover, whereas according to the constitution he should dissolve these organisations, but he prefers to go out to dinner. in our union, which is founded on the values of democracy and respect for fundamental rights, such violence and intimidation cannot be tolerated. the resistance!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most important and decisive electoral consultation in the history of europe is about to take place. we are not going to be able to do that without action, which is absolutely necessary, by depriving thousands of european citizens once again of their right to vote and of the right to move freely if they are living in a country other than their own. this is the case in the absence of uniform legislation, because not all member states remove the bureaucratic barriers and allow voting under these conditions. this is all very absurd and totally anachronistic. we know how often voting procedures abroad are complicated, but i ask the council how such a situation can be maintained today, and even more so at a time when the greatest need is for consistency with the fundamental values of participation and sharing and joint planning. we hope that the intervention of the committee on petitions will fill a huge gap in the democratic exercise of all european citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, as i said at the beginning of this very interesting debate, the commission does not have the general power to intervene in electoral matters and it is primarily for the member states to lay down the arrangements on national elections, including defining the composition of the electorate. as i also said, the commission will continue to work in this area within its limited competences under the treaty. we have used and will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to address the issue of losing the right to vote in exercising the right of free movement. we look forward to continue working with members of the european parliament on this matter, and thank you for your attention.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the council notes that, in accordance with article 4, the union must respect the national identities of member states and that it belongs solely to the member states to decide on the composition of the electorate for national elections. however, i want to thank you very much for raising awareness about these issues, which are important for those union citizens who wish to move freely to another member state and not to be penalised by such decisions. as mentioned by commissioner jourová, there will be a colloquium on fundamental rights, where this issue will certainly be discussed in more detail. i think that we will certainly have the opportunity at this event to deepen the exchange.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 october 2013 366 people lost their lives off lampedusa in an attempt to reach our shores. the government of the day responded by launching the largest humanitarian mission in the mediterranean, mare nostrum. my thoughts today go not only to the victims but also to those who are working every day to save lives, the men and women of the italian coast guard, the mayors involved in the reception and integration, the ngos, which are unfortunately increasingly being criminalised for their humanitarian work. i would like this date to be remembered as a day of remembrance to honour all the men, women and children who have lost their lives because they were forced to leave their country.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statement on the rule of law in romania (2018/2844 ((rsp)).
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. given the time i have, i'll concentrate on a few points. first, the fight against corruption and for an independent judiciary is crucial to the rule of law, but we should remember that the protest is extremely fragmented. for some, corruption creates inequality, for others, it thwarts the neoliberal agenda and justifies more power than services. it creates a false unity, it is the strength but also the weakness of the movement. second, there are dark sides to the movement. the psd supporters are dismissed as old, stupid, rural. in reality, the opposition to the present government is failing to convince the poorer and more marginalized electorate living in the countryside. we too must not forget the marginalized in the single market. third, the movement is not only fighting corruption, it also includes battles against the constitutionalization of the family as the exclusive union between a man and a woman. our bill of rights does not prohibit or require the granting of marriage status to unions between persons of the same sex. fourthly, the defence of the rule of law is more than just, but i would ask you, mr vice-president, to use it also for countries which regularly save. i have heard it in recent days about the demonstrations in bucharest in august. he rightly spoke of shocking images, of peaceful protesters beaten by police, of investigations to be opened immediately. such strong words were lacking when peaceful pro-independence voters in catalonia were beaten and their leaders imprisoned. and i wonder why romania is being severely investigated and condemned, while spain is not.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister, since we entered parliament we have reiterated the centrality of the rule of law in the european union and called for the institutions to constantly monitor compliance by member states and to be able to intervene if they find violations. we are concerned about what we are reading about what is happening in romania. i fear that the reforms of the criminal code being carried out by the current government may not only undermine the independence of the judiciary in the country and foster corruption, but also weaken judicial cooperation in criminal matters with other countries of the union, potentially making romania a safe harbour for continuing their illicit business with impunity. i am referring to the law that reduces the limitation period to one year, effectively leaving the perpetrators of serious crimes such as corruption and money laundering unpunished, but also the repealing measures and the offence of abuse of office, until the ban on holding public office for those convicted of corruption or abuse of office is removed and the offence of corruption is decriminalised. we in italy, for example, want to do the exact opposite. we cannot allow those who commit such serious crimes to go unpunished. we want a reform of the statute of limitations with suspension at first instance or from referral to trial to prevent criminals from benefiting from the length of trials to ensure impunity. the fight against corruption in public administration is also a priority of our government. we want to establish the 'daspo' for corrupt people, which means that a person who is definitively convicted of corruption will no longer be able to deal with public administration. in the directive on combating money laundering, for which i was rapporteur, we succeeded in introducing the secondary sanction of the ban on holding public office and standing for election for those who have been convicted of money laundering offences. that's our goal: keeping criminals out of government. this must be the aim, prime minister, of romania and of the whole european union. the commission must ensure that the rule of law treaties are respected and the member states ensure that these important legal instruments are correctly transposed at european union level, such as the directive on combating money laundering by means of criminal law, which i have mentioned, the fifth anti-money laundering directive which contains important provisions on politically exposed persons, which i believe have been deliberately omitted by the romanian government, and the commission will be responsible for assessing the legality of these provisions.
the agenda includes a discussion with the estonian prime minister, jüri ratas, on the future of europe (2018/2731 ((rsp)). i thank the prime minister of estonia for accepting our invitation to take part in the debate on the future of europe. we are listening to all the prime ministers, but i would like to thank jüri ratas in particular for always giving great weight to parliament's position during the estonian presidency. there has not been a council meeting, even an informal one, to which i was not invited and did not play a prominent role. i thank him for this and he can certainly count on the support of a parliament which also wants to have the power of legislative initiative. mr president, i would like to thank you for your work.
thank you, prime minister. before i give the floor to the commission, i would ask you if all those interested in registering for the catch-the-eye have done so. you're still on time. we're about to shut down the system now. if anyone wants to register, they can still do so. you have to register to vote. well then we can shut down the electronic system. i now give the floor to the european commission, andrus ansip.
now prime minister ratas can answer the first questions, then there will be the catch-the-eye and then the answers to the questions that will come from the catch-the-eye again from prime minister ratas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister, i have listened to your speech and i wanted to draw attention to the concept you have mentioned on the fiscal side. in the internal market, the single market is the key to europe for us, a europe which we want as a political union, as a fiscal union. i would like to know from you whether you really believe in a fiscal union and why, for example, in terms of energy costs, we are not competitive within the various member states, and therefore within the single market, unlike other realities. i come from italy, where the cost of energy is very high and this does not allow us to be competitive and to have, by the way, enemies within the european union. do you believe in a harmonization of the system or in a two-speed europe?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the estonian prime minister on what he is doing. in just over seven months, europe's citizens will go to the polls to express their opinion on europe. it will be a real referendum, and although the european dream is the only long-term political horizon, the wind of fear and uncertainty could influence the outcome of the elections. "primum vivere deinde philosophari" was what hobbes said. in this legislature progress has been made in the field of the environment and in a few other areas, but if we do not pay due attention to the construction of real welfare in times of crisis, we are deliberately deciding to create a europe at more speeds, not understanding that it is a mistake to leave someone behind. we must walk side by side or the european project will cease to exist. i do not know whether the european elections will reflect the results of the national elections, but the wind cannot be stopped with our bare hands. we need concrete proposals for jobs, the economy and immigration. prime minister ratas, what do you think?
thank you, prime minister. once again parliament has been at the centre of the debate on the future of europe, let us move forward in this direction. thank you again. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appeal to the sensitivity of the house to put themselves in the shoes of a mother and father who saw their 33-year-old son, alessandro fiori, lose his life in istanbul, and we really ask the european authorities to take an interest in the turkish authorities to understand how this 33-year-old boy lost his life. first it was suicide, then it was an illness, now it turns out he was murdered. i think it is the duty of the european parliament to our peoples, our families, to this mother and father, to ask the turkish authorities to find out who really murdered this 33-year-old man.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask formally why this house has never allowed me to dismiss two assistants whom i have lost confidence in for a long time and who i am now obliged to keep and overpay to do nothing because of an improper speech ...
author. madam president, commissioner thyssen, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased that our request for a citizenship income is being discussed in this parliament. we have already worked for a few months and this house has approved our text on the minimum income as a measure to reduce poverty. this is a very important subject for us, ladies and gentlemen, for two reasons. one, we are italians and in italy there is no income of citizenship. it is present in 26 of the 28 european countries, but not in ours. two, we are the expression of a political force, the five star movement, which is now in government in the country, a young force that was only founded on 4 october 2009. citizenship income is in our dna, since that october 4th, 2009. it was beppe grillo and gian roberto casaleggio's dream from the very beginning. he's been there all these years, he's been in our program, we've taken him to all the squares. we have walked the route from perugia to assisi many times, and we have made it a central issue in the political debate. i still remember those early years, it was a simple idea, but it's also true that the simple things are the most extraordinary. it did not seem like anything new to us, either, to lift millions of poor people out of despair and poverty. all these years we have lived it as a moral obligation, and i will tell you more, it seemed to us a battle of civilizations in which political affiliations had to disappear. we thought that those who oppose the citizenship income are opposed to italians, not to the five star movement, and instead in italy a stupid, devastating ideological war was waged against our proposal. they thought they were hitting us, but they didn't realize they were hurting the millions of poor people that their social policies kept adding up. in those years, we kept saying "don't worry, when we go to government we will make the income of citizenship", i mean to all citizens who live in absolute poverty, like anna who a few years ago wrote to me to tell me her story. his is a story like many others, a husband and wife whose business failed because of the crisis, the search for a job that cannot be found, the despair, the endless drama of not knowing how to get through the day and the cowardice of a state that gave no answers, that turned its head the other way, because to some politicians the tables and the numbers warm the heart more than the suffering of a person. your story, anna, i brought with me to the european parliament, your life experience was my agenda. i promised you, i swore to you, to you and to all the people who can't find a job. to all the anna daughters and victims of a devastating economic crisis. all these years, i've wished for this moment to come like nothing in the world to hold you and say, "we didn't leave you alone, we kept our promise". with the government of change, italy will have a citizenship income for more than six million citizens. it is a landmark measure, we are eradicating poverty in italy, stimulating consumption and reviving the economy. we have never given up, and the dream that was few's dream nine years ago is now everyone's dream. up high the hearts of the weakest.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the invitation and the opportunity to contribute to your debate on minimum income. our joint commitments to the european people are to protect those most vulnerable, to create adequate jobs and to lift up those who have fallen behind. less than a year ago, we reaffirmed the basic principles – the european pillar of social rights, principle 14 states that everyone lacking sufficient resources has the right to adequate minimum income benefits, ensuring a life with dignity at all stages of life. in 2008, the banking crisis and the ensuing sovereign debt crisis tested our economies, shocked our labour markets and put a strain on our social protection system. unemployment rates and at-risk-of-poverty rates soared throughout the eu. in the past decade, we have had to tackle manifold emergency situations. however, with determination and hard work and by taking difficult decisions, we have managed to restore our economies. in 2017, the eu average unemployment rate stood at 7.3% and employment exceeded its pre-crisis peak. albeit with some delay, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment also continue to decline. today, thanks to our combined efforts, the europe 2020 strategy target of 75% employment rate for men and women seems again to be within reach. while the picture looks positive from certain angles, there is no place for complacency. the total number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion remains very high. in 2016, 118 million european citizens, 23.5% of the total population, were at risk of poverty, even after social transfers. it is clear we still have a long way to go before we reach the europe 2020 target of lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty. ladies and gentlemen, we are all increasingly aware that economic growth must be to the benefit of all and must be socially sustainable. this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that almost all member states have made a real effort and have established schemes for minimum income or benefit in one form or another. furthermore, member states are making good use of the open method of coordination (omc), to cooperate and to exchange best practices. the european semester equally has provided an excellent platform for cooperation in this area. however, minimum income schemes do not exist in a vacuum. the real challenge is to establish inclusive labour markets to make sure that people don’t fall through the social net and, at the same time, to ensure that national social security systems remain sustainable. balancing these elements is not an easy task, especially if we look at the wider context of an ageing population and increased digitalisation and robotisation. again, i am grateful for your invitation to contribute to this debate. it was with great interest that we took note of parliament’s latest resolution on minimum income policies as a tool for fighting poverty. i’m looking forward to hearing your input on this important matter.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very glad that this house keeps social issues high on its agenda and debates them regularly. as president juncker said in his state of the union address, europe has largely turned a page on the economic and financial crisis, and this is well reflected in the employment and social situation in europe. employment has indeed been growing for more than five years in a row and there are now 239 million people at work in the european union. this is more than ever before. the unemployment rate has dropped to 6.8%. these are the figures from eurostat for august 2018. in 2016, there were 5.6 million fewer people at risk of poverty or social exclusion than at the peak of 2012, and there are clear signs that the situation has further improved since. for instance, severe material deprivation declined in almost all member states, falling to an all—time low of 33.4 million in 2017. this is a reduction of 16 million people since 2012. having said this, we should not be complacent. thirty—three million materially deprived people is still too many, and we know that income inequality has stabilised in the last few years, but at higher levels in the european union than before the crisis. moreover, the overall number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, albeit reduced relative to 2012, is still higher now in 2018. this is, as we all know, far from the europe 2020 target of taking 20 million people out of risk of poverty and social exclusion, and that is why the commission has proposed to act. a year ago we all proclaimed the european pillar of social rights, which recognises that everyone lacking sufficient resources has the right to adequate minimum income benefits ensuring a life in dignity at all stages of life, and effective access to enabling goods and services. for those who can work, minimum income benefits should be combined with incentives to integrate or reintegrate into the labour market. that is what the pillar says. in other words, the provision of adequate minimum income schemes is non—discriminatory and should go hand—in—hand with access to services, with employment in line with the active inclusion approach. however, i would like to recall that the setting—up of minimum income benefits is the responsibility of member states. since the introduction of minimum income schemes in greece and italy in the last two years, now all member states have some form of minimum income scheme. however, their design and implementation vary greatly. for this reason, the commission and member states have decided to deepen the analysis. a benchmarking framework has been agreed with member states for minimum income schemes supporting a thorough across—country comparison of national practices. it looks in particular at adequacy, coverage and activation and it will feed into the country—specific analysis in the 2019 european semester. the european semester has proved to be an effective framework to monitor and provide guidance to member states. it is now the main instrument for monitoring the implementation of the pillar. in 2018, some member states received country—specific recommendations addressing minimum income. and, of course, the european semester framework allows us to have a comprehensive view, including the availability of fiscal space to expand social provision. in addition, the commission has already put forward proposals and initiatives that want to make sure no one is left behind. to ensure the rights for the most vulnerable workers we presented the proposal for a directive on transparent and predictable working conditions to tackle women’s under—representation in employment and to create a more balanced distribution of caring responsibilities between women and men we put forward the work—life balance for parents and carers initiative. so this is just to mention a few of our initiatives on the table. they now need to be adopted and implemented and, honourable members, i count on your support to make sure that they will be adopted within the current mandate of this parliament.
the socialist group, on behalf of the s&d group, has strongly supported the european pillar of social rights, which includes income support measures for people in difficulty and at risk of poverty, because we believe that no one should be left behind and that all citizens have the right to decent social and economic living conditions. we have supported, in particular, proposals for the most vulnerable such as the youth guarantee for our young people, the child guarantee for our children, and we have promoted concrete aid to families, in particular single-parent families headed by a woman, who are those who are almost 50% at risk of falling into poverty. we believe, however, that the first right of a person is to work, to work in a dignified, safe, stable and protected way, to work which enables everyone to be an active part of society and to contribute to its growth. we believe in fair pay and fair work. that is why our group was the first to put forward the proposal for a minimum wage at european level. and we're talking about a guaranteed minimum wage, not just an income. we believe that a minimum wage for all workers allows for a peaceful life with real work for all, and that is our main objective. all this, of course, in the context of investments that can grow the economy and stimulate people's participation in society, especially with strong active policies on employment, training and continuing support. but protections and rights must not become forms of welfare-ism that look backwards, but must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the growth of society and not be excluded from it. the debate under way is, however, closely linked to an internal italian political debate which is preparing a measure which seems to us to be discriminatory and punitive, since, for example, it would be reserved only for italian citizens, contrary to european rules which say that it should be reserved for all people at risk of poverty living in the countries.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the demands for dignity and social justice made by millions of citizens living in poverty, unemployment and social exclusion need to be met immediately. we can no longer wait for the failures and high social costs of austerity policies, for which the weakest part of society always pays the highest price. we have fostered economies which do not benefit everyone but only a few, which tend to dismantle the system of protection for workers and the most vulnerable groups, leaving unmet the needs of those living in situations of extreme social disadvantage, economies which allow the exploitation of labour, which goes beyond the forms of neo-slavery, such as the corporal. wealth continues to be concentrated in the hands of a few and fails to stem the spread of poverty, lack of employment opportunities, inequalities produced in the name of manoeuvres that must take into account debt reduction, balance of the budget, confidence in the markets. it is time for europe to change course and to correct the wrong policies that have produced all this. it is in this context that the granting of a minimum income, accompanied by measures aimed at integration into the world of work, education and training programmes and the relaunching of the real economy, is to be found. the italian government is trying to achieve a citizens' income through the people's manoeuvre. we are not talking about forms of charity or welfare, but about an instrument of social redemption, inclusion and participation in society, which ensures the full exercise of fundamental rights, an instrument which will also serve to counter the action of mafias and corruption, which feed on the condition of economic blackmail to attack and limit individual freedoms, rights and to attract those in need into the world of illegality. the minimum income needed by a europe which wants to be fairer and more just must be an instrument of civilization, giving equal dignity and equal opportunities to all citizens and leaving no one behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to insist on stronger european instruments to combat poverty and social exclusion. poverty and social exclusion are still at alarming levels in europe today. the democratic party, the socialist and democratic group have been at the forefront of this battle for years with proposals such as european unemployment insurance, the framework directive on income support measures. i should like to say, however, that i was hoping that this debate, which was sponsored by my colleagues from the five star movement, would give more specificity to the proposals concerning the so-called citizenship income, because i have not yet seen a text, there is no decree, and we do not even have the economic and financial document available today. i have heard from mrs ferrara clear words on employment, measures against a welfare system without any outlet for a measure to bring people into the world of work, but today we have heard about social cards to buy bread and milk, about socially useful jobs, we have seen millions of euros of italian savings burned up in the confusion of these days and we have heard the idea of excluding european citizens who are not italian citizens, european citizens resident in this measure. it seems to me that in relation to italy, this debate on citizenship income is hiding very clear right-wing measures: the flat tax, the tax concession, which the five star allies, salvini and the league have committed themselves to. so i say, today, we have in italy the income of inclusion, the rei, which gives us a support to put the funds also of the european social fund plus to support with that financial allocation this measure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been convinced for many years of the usefulness and necessity of a universal instrument for protecting people when they are unemployed or lose their jobs and are therefore exposed to very substantial dangers and risks for themselves and their families. that's why we need a guaranteed minimum income. we need a european directive to generalise the experience that exists today in some european countries and to make it practical. we proposed it in 2010 and this parliament voted against it, albeit by a few dozen votes. we must propose it again and this instrument must be universal, because in times of need there can be no distinction between those who have a tool to protect them and those who have nothing and resources must be sought in the first place in these very different and not always effective instruments which also exist on the labour market. finally, it is clear that the guaranteed minimum income must be placed in a general framework, where there is a welfare policy that protects people, otherwise it becomes just compensation, and where there is an active policy for work. income is not an alternative to work. it must accompany the transition from one activity to another and cover the moment of need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, poverty exists, poverty exists because there are poor people, but who are the poor and why are they poor? they have different faces and different histories of deprivation and they ask different questions about the present and the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the shortcut of monetizing need cannot be the only way forward. in a context where there is a high risk that a new mass of poor people will join those who are knocking at our doors today, it is necessary for policy to be responsible and sober. europe has already indicated its horizon, the social pillar and the programming of the european social fund as an opportunity to define strategies and resources to promote the instruments to combat poverty. the minimum income, the citizenship income, is certainly useful in an emergency, but we need policies geared to growth and development for the future, but this changeover is not on the agenda of the italian government, and it is therefore up to each member state to decide. those who chant the principle of popular sovereignty do not believe they are capable of making the right choices with prudence, seriousness and balance. the choices made by the populism we are learning to know will condemn the poor to remain poor and will drag thousands of new poor people below the poverty line, and it will not be europe's fault.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the updating of the eurojust regulation modernises its organisational structure, which is now indispensable to deal with the worrying evolution of crossborder organised crime, but it is also functional to the new institutional set-up that is emerging with the imminent establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, responsible for crimes against the financial interests of the union. i would say that the heart of the reform is precisely the provisions necessary to regulate the relations between eurojust and the new european public prosecutor's office. the powers of each institution must be clearly defined in order to ensure legal certainty, to avoid any gaps in the application of criminal law and to avoid duplication of proceedings. i am firmly convinced that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office will not weaken eurojust, but on the contrary, precisely because the european public prosecutor's office is based on the principle of enhanced cooperation, eurojust will have a leading role both in coordinating with the member states that have not yet joined, and for all those crimes which are not covered by the pif directive, and i am thinking of terrorism, drug trafficking, computer crimes or child pornography, all of which are crimes of a cross-border nature. i also believe that the modernisation of eurojust, which we are about to vote on, will strengthen data protection safeguards, as well as the separation between administrative and operational activities, and will focus fully on judicial cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities of the member states. i thank mr voss and the other shadow rapporteurs for their work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years crossborder organised crime has increased exponentially through terrorism, drug trafficking, computer crime and child pornography. these forms of crime are committed by highly mobile and flexible groups operating in a wide range of eu jurisdictions and criminal sectors. it is clear that effective action cannot be taken without adequate instruments at international level. the operational network for the exchange of information between law enforcement agencies should be implemented under the guidance of europol in order to overcome the current difficulties. i say this also in the light of the transnational investigations following the attacks in paris and brussels, which have revealed serious shortcomings in the capacity of cooperation between the different national law enforcement authorities. judicial and police administrative cooperation throughout the european union must be enhanced at several levels, aiming at an effective synergy between the european judicial network europol and eurojust. all this while waiting to understand the role that the newly established european public prosecutor's office will play.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in the congratulations to mrs griesbeck for her work as rapporteur and i, as the shadow rapporteur, the successor to my colleague from apulia, whose post i have taken over, would point out that the 98.9% of proceeds from unconfiscated criminal activities is an exaggerated percentage. the confiscation of proceeds of crime and the freezing of such assets is a fundamental measure in the fight against organised crime and terrorist activity. to date, member states have implemented only weakly or rarely the minimum measures in force in the member states. on 21 december 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition by member states of confiscation and freezing of assets resulting from criminal activities. from now on, a decision issued by an authority in one member state can be recognised and enforced swiftly in all the other member states. the scope of this regulation extends to new types of confiscation, in line with but going beyond directive 2014/42/eu, in particular where it provides for less limited forms of non-conviction-based confiscation. the implementation of this regulation makes it possible to use resources for compensation to the families of victims, for activities to combat organised crime and for initiatives with a social purpose, by providing for the establishment of competent offices for each member state. the council and parliament have agreed on a text which provides for 45 days for the execution of confiscation orders and 96 hours for the execution of freezing orders. the regulation makes the mutual recognition of freezing orders more efficient, faster and more uniform.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank mr griesbeck and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done on a proposal for a regulation which is another essential element in the fight against transnational crime. to hit the criminal organizations where it hurts the most, namely in the economic interests: the freezing and confiscation of assets are the main means of depriving organised criminal groups of the profits and resources necessary for their illegal activities. the regulation complements and strengthens the european regulatory framework, will ensure more effective and faster recognition of freezing and confiscation orders between member states, allowing for the targeting of such criminal proceeds across the entire territory of the union, and it is particularly important to provide for the mutual recognition of so-called confiscation orders without conviction, which with the right safeguards and respect for fundamental rights, represent a significant step forward in the fight against criminal organisations. it is also important to provide for the reuse of confiscated property for social purposes, which is a measure that promotes value and, i would say, a sense of legality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mafia is doing business with ease across national borders and exploiting the legislative weaknesses of the various countries and their lack of cooperation, so it makes sense, if we are a union, to try to take the good practices developed in one country and make them part of the common european heritage. it is therefore essential to provide for strong measures such as the one we are discussing today, the mutual recognition of confiscation orders even in the absence of a conviction, because this aspect has proved to be crucial in the italian context for the fight against mafia organizations. it is also a tool that can be very dissuasive. the union is therefore taking a very important step towards harmonizing the rules for fighting the mafia, by choosing to attack the strong to protect the weak. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. so we're very happy that this tool is finally coming into port.
in writing. the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders is part of the package of three legislative proposals (together with the money transfer control regulation and the anti-money laundering directive) presented by the commission in december 2016 to strengthen the eu's capacity to counter the financing of organised crime and terrorism. as the italian experience also shows, attacking the financial aspects of the activities of criminal organisations is one of the most effective methods of countering them, and given the intrinsically cross-border nature of criminal and terrorist actions, cooperation at eu level in these areas is absolutely necessary.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and the speed with which she has carried it out. after the regulation on the protection of personal data, the regulation on the free flow of non-personal data is another important step towards completing a european data market, with data that is increasingly transparent, accessible and at the same time better protected. today, companies cannot choose the cheapest places to store or process their data. the numerous administrative obstacles present make it difficult to change service providers or to transfer data back to one's own computer systems. this legislation will help companies avoid duplication of data in multiple locations, enter new markets and expand their business. data will flow freely throughout the european union and barriers to archiving services will be removed, which are the starting point for the development of an increasingly open and digital public administration, where services and documents are available to citizens with a single click. to appreciate the importance of this, it is enough to remember that in ten years the scope of the data economy will grow almost twentyfold and so beyond people, goods, services and capital, the doors are opening to the fifth freedom in the digital single market, that of data, which will favor sectors such as the internet of things, blockchain, healthcare, remote surgery and smart mobility solutions, such as self-driving cars. this will not, however, weaken the control of national authorities who will be able to exercise their right of access to data throughout europe. this control will be crucial because an increasingly digitised world is a more vulnerable world and it is our duty to work to protect the most exposed parties, namely citizens, individuals and businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs maria corazza bildt, and our shadow rapporteur, mrs christel schaldemose, for the work they have done. we know that data management, the rules by which data is processed, transferred, traded and stored, is one of the most important challenges of the digital economy. the creation of a single space of non-personal data within the union creates new opportunities in terms of employment, in particular for start-ups and small businesses, while increasing competition in the sector, increasing the final offer for the benefit of consumers. in addition, mr president, a common legal framework will make it easier for public authorities to exercise supervisory controls to protect citizens and will strengthen the overall data protection framework, alongside the general data protection regulation, which is already in force. i believe that the adoption of this regulation is a further step towards the creation of a european digital single market, which is necessary to compete globally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anna maria corazza bildt and the shadow rapporteurs, starting with christel schaldemose, worked very quickly and above all with great sagacity. the matter they had to settle was not simple, very delicate, complex, and they did it in the best way. i am very pleased with the solutions and compromises that have been reached, particularly with regard to the protection of the personal data of european citizens. the fact that they have been guaranteed and recognised as having this right to priority over where there is a link with the data set to a right of priority is what gives a complete sense to the work that has been done, it is somewhat at the heart of the proposal, but it also exemplifies its intentions and its conclusive capacity. i would like to say one last thing to the commissioner, there is a matter of privacy at the workplace. the collection and use of data there was not an issue to be tackled and resolved in this context, but it is very important that the commission takes up the matter and tackles it quickly.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great discrepancy between the formal commitments and the repetition of these important discussions in the european parliament and the actual data. this commission, chaired by the ineffable mr juncker, which represents, i would say quite openly, the interests of a tax haven state, on the transparency of whose banks, let us say, we can all easily have an account, represents in a plastic way, i would say almost obviously, i would say even arrogantly, the total disinterest of this commission towards a commitment that should be a priority, because it is demanded by those who fight on the front line, starting with the police forces, the various gendarmerie and the italian guardia di finanza. i would like to give you a figure: the number of investigations carried out in the italian banking system by bankitalia, the central bank of my country, 43 000 reports, of which over 41 000 are considered to be very serious, that is to say 83%, and what is the commission doing about the scale of this situation? he offers us words, words, words, words, words.
mrs berès, for your information, i accept all the questions in the blue card. i never turn them down. it is not for me to refuse them, but rather for the speaker to do so if he does not wish to answer them. now, i accept the 'blue card' question asked by mr brok, but after mrs cato's answer.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the humanitarian emergency in the mediterranean: support for local and regional authorities (2018/2854 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has made a very detailed report on all the unimportant or not so important things, such as the evidence of the cases, the problems that this debate has shown. and on the really important issue of dublin reform, it is a puzzling vagueness. they say: i am not sure that this is the case. you continue to fail to reform dublin, which is one of the key points, which is an agreement which the commission itself recognises as being outdated, so it is a mockery of those who have seriously denounced it on one side or the other. we have denounced the distortions of this false solidarity and perhaps the incident of this municipality, of this italian mayor, is a confirmation. what i can tell you is that the tragedy of lampedusa would not happen again today because of a courageous decision by the italian government to block the ports and thus to put a barrier in the way of the criminal organizations which have exploited the poor of the world through the trade in human flesh. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue card". i would like to ask mr borghezio why the italian government, of which he is a member, has not supported the european parliament's proposal for the dublin reform and whether he considers the diciotti ship case to be a model which italy can use as an example for europe, given that, i recall, the minister of the interior is under judicial investigation for kidnapping.
, answer to a question blue card. the pseudo-reform proposed was certainly not in the sense that common sense and i would say the reality of the situation impose. in the meantime, it has continued because this reform proposed by those who have dumped hundreds of thousands of immigrants on italy in the dismal disinterest of other countries and the european union certainly did not lead to optimism and a serene assessment of the proposal. and as for the attacks, the criticisms of the work of minister salvini on the aquarius issue, i would say that the european union and all those who care about the health and safety of people who used to trust and today do not trust, thank god, in large part to the merchants of death, should make a monument to minister salvini who should be awarded a great prize as a relevant figure of humanitarian action, because he started the most important operation, that of cutting off the legs of the exploiters of the poor people and the poor immigrants. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question blue card. i think that the honourable member who has addressed me with his usual courtesy and grace does not take the fact that the minister has given an important signal by this courageous decision to all those who have hitherto been speculating without any real controls on those who exploit these situations. we must be clear and distinguish clearly between actions of genuine solidarity and those of other kinds, and there are many of them, and they are financed by such clear-sighted figures as the great international tycoon and speculator soros, who have nothing to do with solidarity and love for the citizens of the third world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the memory of the past is essential to building our future, and today we remember the 368 victims who lost their lives off lampedusa on 3 october five years ago, trying to reach our shores. what has changed since then? on 3 october 2018, the mediterranean remains an emergency and integration and inclusion policies are still severely hampered. the deaths in the mediterranean continue, despite the indifference of those who have been careful in recent years to build walls and protect the frontiers rather than save human lives, and the complicity of those who have profited from the weakest, making europe believe that it can stop the disembarkations by closing the ports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the destruction of the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine for the disease. in addition, there are smear campaigns against those who, despite the many difficulties, are trying to set up a system of reception and integration. i would like to express my solidarity with the mayor of riace, mimmo lucano. local administrators must be supported, as it is they who, by providing essential services to migrants, creating educational and employment opportunities, develop an environment conducive to their further integration. no more smear campaigns against those who work for social cohesion, training the new citizens of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is alarmed by the deficit spending in italy, and i would remind you that the absolute poor are 5 million people, but it approves a law on security which cuts humanitarian permits, takes away legal certainty from asylum seekers and eliminates funds for municipal reception facilities. draghi says there are words that are bad for business, but salvini's words about the mayor of riace, arrested for promoting immigration, are benevolently ignored. "you are a zero", said the minister of those who saved an entire village from depopulation, integrating refugees and with dwindling funds. i am not just talking about italy, arrests and violence against those who facilitate reception and integration are multiplying. cédric herrou, diego dumont, mayor mimmo lucano, the list is growing, commissioner oettinger, and i wonder if this alarms you too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian emergency still unfolding in the mediterranean requires us to reform the common asylum system as soon as possible, and in particular the dublin system, in order to alleviate the burden of reception, which is borne by countries, especially those of first arrival, such as italy. and it is precisely within these states, particularly in regions such as sicily, where i come from, that local and regional authorities play a fundamental and important role in the reception of refugees and migrants. we cannot leave the local mayors and administrators alone, who are doing their best with the few resources at their disposal, but their work must be part of a more determined action both at national level and supported by the european union. i am therefore not opposed to the idea of giving more substantial contributions to local authorities, as part of the european funding under the asylum fund and the multiannual financial framework. i believe that it is necessary to support the efforts of the member states by adopting a shared approach and avoiding the promotion of different criteria within the different territorial communities. the growth of migration flows to europe could continue for decades due to the various geopolitical dynamics in the middle east, north africa, the horn of africa and the continuing poverty situation in some sub-saharan regions. in the light of this, and in conclusion, i am convinced that the work of the european parliament must be directed primarily towards promoting a more correct management of migration flows, focusing on welcoming in solidarity, on strengthening services, but also on respect for the law and maintaining the socioeconomic balance within the local communities, which are called upon to support the effort of reception and integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned, we are holding this debate on 3 october, the anniversary of the tragic shipwreck off lampedusa, in which more than 360 people lost their lives. we said 'never again' then, and instead we continue, the european union continues to do worse and worse. to get to the heart of this debate, as far as the humanitarian reception of local authorities is concerned, i remember my colleague miranda said earlier that when i was on open arms one of the ngos that is so criminalized together with some of my colleagues, the city of naples wanted to welcome and keep its port open while the italian government tweeted "we close the ports" and inhibited the intervention of that ngo saying that the libyan coast guard had to intervene. the mayor of riace was arrested the other day. riace is a model of welcome and integration, and instead the mayor is arrested for promoting illegal immigration. a mayor who had been practicing sprar reception since 2001 and who had been on hunger strike since 2018 due to cuts in funding by the ministry of the interior. finally, the immigration and security decree dismantles precisely that sprar reception managed by the municipalities in which reception standards were set, a single integration system. i believe that my country, italy, is doing worse and worse and i want to renew my full solidarity with the mayor of riace. riace is a model and she doesn't stop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely urgent that the european union should increase its support for local and regional authorities on the subject of migration. as rapporteur for the report on the social and labour inclusion of refugees adopted here in july 2016, i had highlighted the insufficiency of the funds available and the need for additional resources to provide local authorities, trade unions, businesses, civil society with direct financial support for projects in this field. i have repeated this in my opinion in the committee on employment on the interim report on the multiannual budget and also in the new european social fund plus on which i have tabled amendments to directly finance projects in the field of the inclusion of migrants, developed by cities and local organisations. there are mayors in italy who are now asked to carry out a task which is impossible without the appropriate instruments. i am thinking of my friend enrico ioculano, mayor of ventimiglia, and of mimmo lucano, mayor of riace, whose legal case has been shamelessly exploited by matteo salvini, who wants to abolish the european integration excellence programme (sprar), with the cynical aim of winning support by attacking europe and blaming europe for all the problems. let's all respond together by supporting our local administrators.
member of the commission. the commission is not i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i have listened to your speeches with great respect and i can see that there is a very broad and diverse position here in the house. firstly, we are trying to help with the budgetary framework we have, with our limited resources. we have only 1% of the european social product in the european budget, 49% is in the member states, regions and municipalities. we're responsible for one fiftieth. let us try to help where new tasks arise, within the limits of our flexibility. we have tried for three years to make a special effort this year to free up funds for the municipalities, regions and member states which are particularly affected by the problem of migration. we're doing everything we can, that's all. our resources are limited. secondly, our first partner is the member state, not the municipality. this is a principle of europe. we work with the 28 member states, they work with the local authorities. in the field of the esf and cohesion, we work with the regions, and they work with the local authorities. we trust the member states. we can use olaf if we have reasonable grounds for suspecting abuse, misuse or corruption. but our principle must be: basic confidence in the proper use of funds by the governments and administrations of our member states. they know the communes better than we do. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. however, we are grateful for all the information. but it is clear that debates that need to be held in national politics, or developments in national politics, are not our business. we are not the teachers of national elections and developments thereafter. i do not want to go into detail about which member states i am referring to. this is about the rule of law, and we will intervene if we can. and if there was a relatively broad italian debate in the house tonight, it must first be held in rome. i wonder, as an epp member, whether berlusconi has not failed? i ask the social democrats whether the social democrats in italy have not done enough and that is why the development has come about as it has. we're trying, but our resources are limited. in the next budgetary framework, if it is adopted in the house, we will have more resources. we want to significantly increase funding for migration, and we want to take care of refugees by 2025, because they are all born. i think the debate is too much about the present and the past. we're going to have refugees in the next decade who are 8, 10, 12, 14 years old today, living in mali, congo, niger, nigeria. we must give them a perspective in the sense of a fair partnership. and it cannot be just - and i quote - a fortress of steel and ships in the mediterranean. i want to make it clear that europe must respect the obligations of international law, the law of the sea, international law, the geneva convention on refugees and the convention on human rights, which we have signed, at all levels, not only in sunday speeches but also in everyday operational practice. or let's talk about it. if anyone in european politics wants to abandon these international obligations, he should say so here and not break the rules in everyday practice, as is increasingly being attempted in the gray area or at least announced publicly. i think an ethos, a code, is crucial here. do we keep the commitments we signed, yes or no? platforms outside the eu: it was the european council in june. egypt, morocco: they don't want to. our diplomats are everywhere. there is no state, no government, neither in the maghreb nor in the sahel nor in the sub-sahel, which is willing or even interested in setting up centres for people in need. we are doing everything we can to investigate this further, but so far it is more of an illusion than a practical solution. we want to put pressure on turkey. oh, my god, i could use that right now. sorry, erdoğan is not the type to respond constructively to pressure. where we have refugee camps, give us money, the second tranche is being negotiated in the council and parliament these days to finance a decent life for 1.2 million people, shelter, cooling, heating, electricity, clothing, food, and for 300 000 children, 8,000 teachers for basic education. you could expand that in jordan, lebanon, morocco. are we prepared to invest billions more in addition to the six billion we have now? the only way to do this is either to have the member states give us more money or to have agricultural or cohesion funds re-allocated. i'm open to it. are we prepared to spend money on human dignity instead of the bypass and direct crop per hectare for more people in the neighboring continent of africa? the second tranche of three billion is already very, very difficult for all of us - the member states and the eu. will we ever learn the art of sharing? do we want to? this will be an example for the next budgetary framework. olaf i offer this to is an independent authority within the european commission. i'm not in charge. but if you have evidence of misuse of funds and olaf finds out about it, or i find out about it and pass it on, you can assume that olaf will investigate each case and investigate misuse of european funds accordingly and will also bring about a consistent and fair outcome. we should support local authorities and not give money to frontex: not either-or, both-and. we need to have support for the external border protection of the main countries concerned - bulgaria, malta, cyprus, greece, italy, spain - through frontex, and still have the financial strength to give the main local authorities through their member states and their governments sufficient money. i can assure you that the commission will do everything in its power to support the emergence of new tasks - integration, judicial review, even repatriation - within the limits of our legal and budgetary possibilities.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, in june the european council underlined, and confirmed at its meeting in salzburg, that, in addition to a strong internal dimension of migration policy, a reinforced focus on effective external border protection, the elimination of smugglers’ business models and stronger cooperation with third countries is greatly needed. we believe that, in order to find sustainable solutions to all pending questions, we need to continue our work on the basis of such a comprehensive approach. i can assure you that the austrian presidency is working hard on all strands of the migration agenda – external borders as well as internal and external policies in parallel – and will do its utmost to achieve progress on all these strands. i also want to thank the commissioner for his thoughts and to thank members for this fruitful discussion.
the debate on this point is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. on the occasion of tragedies in the mediterranean and of painful anniversaries, such as the one on 3 october, which commemorates the 368 deaths of the shipwreck of lampedusa, the same theme has been discussed several times, indignation has been expressed several times for the victims of the sea and for the traffickers of death, the european union has announced measures and actions several times, but nothing has changed. the mediterranean is still dying and the countries of first arrival are still bearing the brunt of the rescue and reception burden. since the beginning of 2018, more than 80,000 migrants have arrived in europe via the mediterranean routes, mainly from italy, spain and greece. in order to cope with the challenges of migration, the european union's resources which should help to support the action of the regional and local authorities in my country are tiny compared to the national resources used. in the european management of flows, disunity and selfishness of the member states are emerging, which disregard the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, including financial responsibility, enshrined in the treaties and paralyse the reform of the common european asylum system, which should instead apply those same principles.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the fight against customs fraud and the protection of eu own resources (2018/2747 ((rsp)).
perhaps everyone should turn to their own political groups on this, since the debates are decided by the offices of the presidency. but it is an invitation to all the group chairmen, of course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most recent investigations by olaf have revealed cases of customs fraud in european countries. one of these, as has been said, is the united kingdom, but unfortunately these are not cases confined to certain countries, but are illegal practices widespread in many member states. these are frauds which unduly drain resources from the budget of the european union, which disturb fair competition between businesses and which in some cases even fuel the activities of organised crime. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the customs authorities in the member states are able to monitor the situation in the community. in this respect, the commission must ensure that the authorities of the member states fully implement the provisions of the union customs code. but i believe that in order to prevent this kind of fraud, it is also necessary to draw up as soon as possible a definitive vat system, which provides for uniform rules on the collection and payment of vat throughout the union, so as to ensure more effective protection of the community budget.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i want to make sure that you understand that. it's not about any punitive action. it is simply that we must investigate abuses, and we must do so everywhere. there are also suspicions, investigations, surveys and findings in other member states. it is not about centralization either, on the contrary! customs have been a desirable source of revenue since the founding of the european union - much more in the past, now about 14% of our total revenue. we are relieving the member states of the burden of customs duties by not making them pay national contributions of the same amount. the customs authorities of the member states are responsible for customs enforcement a decentralised system. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. we do not want commission officials on the ground. but we want the local officials, the national officials, to fulfil their obligations in the interests of their budget - they get 20% - in the interests of customs revenue, the indirect vat revenue that comes from it and in the interests of the european budget. if a member who has now gone home and paid his respects, speaks of measures like those in the soviet union, i reject that as simply absurd! i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. but i will not allow the european union to be insulted or even compared to the soviet union. we're going after the tobacco smuggler. as you know very well, we have terminated agreements with the tobacco industry and are doing everything possible to reduce or prevent the importation of tobacco products from countries such as belarus, ukraine and other countries which do not comply with our legal bases, as far as we are able to do so within our limited means. in the uk case, which is the subject of our attention today, we have not only determined the amount of the loan by means of the best possible analysis, but we have also charged interest on it, so that in the end, if the amount can be paid, there is no disadvantage to the european budget. i think the good thing about this case is that it shows that our anti-fraud efforts are working. i can only encourage you to do so: olaf is your agency and mine, and whenever you have suspicions, whenever you see concrete irregularities, report them! in that case, olaf has the right and the duty to make a case, to obtain information and to prevent damage to the european budget both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i will follow up and report back to you in writing on whether and how we see this legally. i'm interested in your research. good afternoon.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, on thursday 4 october 2018.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 4 october 2018, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. this court is adjourned.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the 2014 revision of the public procurement framework, europe has a good body of legislation, the full potential of which has not yet been exploited by most member states. the report, for which i thank mr coelho and our rapporteur, mr marc tarabella, gives a comprehensive overview of the state of transposition and implementation of these rules, but also of the most urgent issues to be tackled at european and national level. i would like to focus on three points. we must continue to apply quality criteria in the award of contracts. too often, a low price is hidden behind unfair competition, poor attention to sustainability, social inclusion and disability. second point: we must recognize that european smes and social economy enterprises win only 45% of the value of contracts, in clear contradiction to their real weight in the economy. concrete measures will be needed in this area, including, for example, mandatory batching, combined with better assistance and training for small and mediumsized enterprises. third point: in parallel with the construction of the digital single market, we also need to change the pace of the digitalisation of public procurement. we need simplified procedures, less bureaucracy and more transparency. finally, i would also like to mention the issue of reciprocity in the field of international public procurement. the opening up of our public markets must not make us forget how difficult, if not impossible, it is for european suppliers to gain access to third country markets. this is an intolerable imbalance which the commission and the member states must quickly remedy, for example by approving the so-called international procurement instrument, which is still being held hostage by internal vetoes in the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was indeed rapporteur for the opinion in the envi committee. officially, it seems to be the chairman of the committee, but in reality i made the report. i have concentrated in my report on the procurement of food for public purposes, for example, for the canteens, kindergartens, schools and hospitals. i think that it is precisely there that the customers and especially the parents of the pupils want local food, for example, and that it is sometimes a little absurd when public administrations are then forced to buy through public tenders products that are being transported from far away. i have every understanding of the european single market. i think he's good and reasonable. but i also think that in such cases we must also be reasonable and respond to the wishes of public administrations and the wishes of the customers who use these public canteens for local food. i think that is why we must find a solution in the public procurement system, so that in this area in particular the purchasers have the opportunity to buy local food.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last free voice of the united arab emirates has been silenced. ahmed mansoor was the last remaining activist in the uae who dared to publicly criticize the authorities, paying this serious affront with a ten-year prison sentence. can we still tolerate this attitude of the uae towards human rights and those who dare even to name them? on the other hand, i wonder what we can expect from a country that ranks 116th in the human freedom index and where those who express sympathy for qatar risk up to 15 years in prison. in a country that is a leader in curbing fundamental rights, the anti-terrorism law deserves special mention, containing a broad and deliberately vague definition of the crime and giving authorities broad powers to prosecute dissidents and activists. i therefore feel it is our duty to urge the member states to ensure that surveillance equipment does not reach the uae from the old continent and is then systematically used to control political opponents. finally, i would urge the high representative to take a clear and firm stand on the mansoor case and to call for his immediate and unconditional release.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can finally talk about ahmed mansoor, a well-known emirati blogger who until more than a year ago was the only independent voice, not yet in prison, to denounce the many human rights violations in the uae. mansoor was sentenced to ten years in prison for posting false information on social media and promoting sectarianism and hatred. in fact, it seems to us that he has only been peacefully exercising his rights in a country which, i remember, is elected to the un human rights council, however absurd it may seem, but what is most surprising in this situation is, as always, our attitude as a union, which is quite ambiguous and hypocritical. on the one hand, we call ourselves champions of human rights protection, on the other hand, we continue to fearlessly supply spy software to regimes with dubious democracy that will use it to persecute and silence all critical voices. we call loudly for the immediate and unconditional release of mansoor and all other prisoners of conscience. the eu must take a strong and clear stand when it comes to human rights, we must suspend the licensing of technology and surveillance and arms exports to these countries, we can no longer be silent accomplices, favouring profits at the expense of people.
author. – mr president, concentration camps are back. there are no other words to describe what is happening in xinjiang. on paper, the ongoing chinese ‘strike hard’ campaign in xinjiang aims to eradicate terrorist threats. in reality, it is used to justify massive abuses, including the establishment of re-education camps or ‘education through labour’ camps. we are talking about up to a million people arbitrarily detained in camps and exposed to torture, forced indoctrination and collective punishment without, of course, the right to due process. therefore, the answer is simple: these people are guilty of not being han chinese. colleagues, what else do we have to witness before taking concrete actions – gas chambers? mass executions? china has no boundaries on its gross human rights violations, simply because nobody dares to enforce such boundaries. therefore, in light of the overwhelming evidence of grave abuses in xinjiang, i call on the european union to take appropriate measure that match the gravity of the situation. in this respect, targeted sanctions against party secretary chen quanguo can no longer be delayed.
i am sorry to say that we are talking about repeated and shouted-out incidents, denounced not only by the best international journalism but also by authoritative members of the european commission, and we are increasingly denouncing in this house the very serious violations of what are in fact human rights. xi'an residents are subjected to daily police checks, facial recognition procedures, mass telephone intercepts, the existence of mass detention camps is now established, and the goal is clear, the erasure of the identity of the uyghur minority. and we know, because the risks have been known for a long time, that china still applies the death penalty, its anti-terrorism law defines this vaguely, often allowing for arbitrary application of the law. the european union must stand up as a bulwark in defence of the rights of minorities, and therefore also of these rights, the rights of the uyghurs, and urge third countries to give careful consideration to requests for international protection, including those from other minorities such as those in the khazarian region.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one used to utter a single word, they remained silent as dumb, they were afraid to accidentally say something wrong, are the words of terror of sayragul sauytbay, a former chinese propaganda teacher in one of those re-education centers, aka concentration camps hidden in the mountains of western china, xi'an, where about a million uyghurs, kazakhs and other minorities are now arbitrarily detained. a figure we're not even sure of because there are no public records of prisoners. unfortunately, however, these facilities exist all too well, as do the numerous violations of the human rights of minorities, including the forced disappearances of political dissidents, such as ilam tohti, and the intimidation of the diaspora also in our member states, even relatives of refugees abroad are harassed by the chinese authorities to bring them back and thus punish their rebellion. we have a legal and moral obligation to demand the immediate release of all prisoners in these illegal centres which must be dismantled. europe cannot and must not bow to the shameful logic of business as usual with china.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to denounce a disgusting incident that took place in italy this morning. a newspaper this morning carried this headline: "cholera is back in naples, brought by migrants". so this is totally false news and the headline is a disgusting headline. we are rightly fighting against fake news on social media, but this parliament must also fight against those newspapers which foment hatred and foment racism on our continent. it's a shame about that title! this is a shame!
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today, on world animal day, i am glad that this oral question can be discussed in plenary, especially as we are focusing on those animals which are too often forgotten and which deserve our full attention. the problem is serious today and it is right to talk about it because there are more and more studies and evidence which give us the measure of how unsustainable intensive poultry farming is. the animals are force-fed and grow structurally weak, for the sole purpose of producing low-quality meat sold at low prices. animals kept in large numbers in extremely confined spaces in terrifying conditions, where animal diseases and zoonoses spread with extreme ease. unfortunately, the recipes that factory farming uses in these situations are all wrong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this is the most pressing public health emergency in europe today. i would like to stress in this connection, as has been mentioned, that parliament expressed itself in a report by mrs kadenbach in september. i therefore believe that the sector must be called to account and that the transformation of livestock farming is more necessary than ever in the european union and in italy in particular. my country is second in the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, with over 1 300 tonnes a year, an impressive figure, which could however be drastically reduced if we finally decided to make another model of meat production and consumption prevail, a model based on good farming practices and the application of strict biosecurity measures. but not only that, to reduce the use of medicines and the considerable environmental impact of industrial broiler farming - and we have mentioned ammonia emissions are a huge problem - the choice to abandon the use of cages can play an important role. and that is why i am asking the members here to sign the ice, the "end the cage age" initiative, and i am asking the commission to listen, to start listening to the many citizens who are already mobilizing in support of this great battle of civilizations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dealing with an important issue here. chicken is becoming increasingly popular. if you look at the data, in the last ten years alone, european production has risen from eight million tonnes to thirteen million tonnes. we could also discuss whether it really makes sense for our diet that in europe, for example, we eat more chicken meat than we eat apples. that, too, might need some scrutiny. but you can't just put it all together. there are also situations in europe where chicken meat is properly produced. for example, in germany there is the animal welfare initiative. i myself was in the netherlands with the committee on agriculture two years ago. there, in collaboration with wageningen university, they have developed animal shelters, where animal welfare is well taken care of. but the commission is not in a position - and i fully agree with the speakers who have spoken before me - to implement directive 43/2007, that is to say, to finally ensure that the rules that actually exist are also implemented. so those who do it right are the ones who end up being the laughing stock, because when they invest in animal welfare, they end up not being competitive because others are producing cheaper. we've seen this in egg production. there it was, and it's exactly the same. those who invested in better stables were ultimately unable to compete in the market because others in europe continued to work with old stables. it's the same thing that happens to eggs. the european stables were dismantled and transferred to ukraine, and the eggs were then imported duty free. we have to be careful here, too. either those who import have the same rules, or else they have to put protective duties on these products. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members who took the floor. this is an important topic. thank you very much for this short discussion on the issue. i will of course pass all of your remarks, concerns and the whole message to commissioner andriukaitis, but let me just point to two things. first, the commission wants to move things forward and to really work on this subject. we will continue to work on the enforcement of the directive, but at the same time – and that is why your remarks were so valuable – we need to work closer together to reduce the impact of industrial farming as far as possible, both for the welfare of the chickens and for the environment and human health. we will take all of your concerns into consideration. let me also tell you, a little bit more personally, that i will do my best in my capacity to get a lot of interest in the commission on this. this is what i can commit to you.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 4 october 2018.
before we begin our work, i would like to express parliament's condolences to the families of the victims of the floods which have struck france, spain and italy in recent weeks. i would also like to express, on behalf of parliament, our condolences to the families of the victims of the attacks on polling stations in afghanistan, which have left dozens dead and hundreds injured. we stand with the afghan people, who have courageously responded to these cowards by going to the polls. i also want to remember, one year after her disappearance, daphne caruana galizia, the courageous maltese journalist killed for her investigations. this parliament will always be at the forefront of defending press freedom and the journalists who express it, everywhere in the world. we therefore also urgently call for a rigorous international investigation to clarify the circumstances of the death of journalist and writer jamal khashoggi. we demand that the saudi authorities find and punish the perpetrators and the instigators of this heinous crime. (applause) i would like to thank
the minutes of the meeting of 4 october 2018 and the texts approved were distributed. are there any comments? declaration approving the minutes of the meeting of 4 october 2018. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
the rules are clear and have always been scrupulously followed for everyone. meps are heard in the juri committee on immunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention and that of the whole house to the fact that last friday the president of the italian public television, mr marcello foa, said in an interview with an israeli newspaper that 'soros has financed a huge number of members of the european parliament, including the entire delegation of the italian centre-left democratic party'. as for us, as members of the democratic party, we will take the necessary steps towards the judicial authorities to bring president foa to justice for these allegations. however, mr president, i think that these statements do not only damage the honour and integrity of certain members of this house, but also the dignity and role of this parliament, and i hope that you, mr president, will defend this dignity and role.
several committees decided to open interinstitutional negotiations under article 69c (1) of the regulation. the reports, which constitute the mandates for these negotiations, are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 69c (2), a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by noon tomorrow, tuesday 23 october 2018, that a decision on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if a request for a vote in the house on the decision to open negotiations has not been tabled by the deadline, the committees may open negotiations. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
on. post, is it the same subject?
as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is at the forefront of its propaganda activities and actions in this field. as you have seen, for months a series of commercials, a series of messages, including visual messages, have been presented within the institution to draw the attention of all members and all those who frequent our buildings to a subject of such great delicacy. the bureau has worked hard and the working party chaired by mr morin-chartier has given concrete answers. i ask mr morin-chartier if he would add something to explain briefly to our colleagues what has been done.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 18 october 2018. the following amendments were tabled. monday: no request for change thursday: following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: the oral question on the fair market for industry, scheduled for the afternoon, will be replaced by a statement from the commission with the same title and at the same time. (parliament adopted the resolution) tuesday: the alde group has asked that the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 'disappearance of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi' be replaced by 'killing of journalist jamal khashoggi in the saudi consulate in istanbul'.
the gue/ngl group, with the support of the s&d and greens/efa groups, asked that the council and commission statements on multi-billion dollar tax evasion by the major banks in the union be added as a second item to the afternoon's agenda. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
mr. papadimoulis, the problem is this: are you in favour of the amendment proposed by the socialist group, namely that the debate and the resolution be held the following month?
if you agree, i put to the vote the proposal of the gue/ngl group, which has the support of other groups, to add as an item on the agenda the discussion of multi-billion dollar tax evasion by the major banks in the union, with a resolution to be voted on either in november or december. if i can, because time is very short, i can also invite the ecb and esma, but there is not much time, because the debate should be on thursday. let's see if we can do that. i'll try to invite them. (parliament adopted the resolution) the s&d group asked that the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a comprehensive mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights be added as the fifth item on the afternoon's agenda. the debate will conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
mr rodrigues, is your group in agreement with mr engel's proposal, or do you want to keep to the motion for a resolution and vote on it?
if i understand correctly, it's not a matter of content, it's a matter of date.
so you are in favour of keeping the debate this part-session, if i understand correctly. mrs rodrigues, you have the floor, because you must decide what to put to the vote.
i therefore put to the vote by roll call the final proposal from the socialist group: i am not going to discuss this matter with the commissioner. (parliament adopted the resolution) wednesday: no request for change thursday: the s&d group asked for a commission statement on the role of local communities in the reception and integration of migrants, referring to the case of riace, to be added as the first item on the morning's agenda.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to remind my colleagues that the mayor of riace is on trial, the italian judiciary is investigating, so i do not see why we should discuss this here. let the italian judiciary investigate. i do not think that the case of riace can be cited as a positive example of welcoming immigrants, given what is happening. so i'm totally against it.
there's a court case. ms. verhofstadt, there's also a judicial investigation against mr. salvini for other matters, so we'll leave it to the italian courts to decide if everyone comments on the decisions... there you go, your honor. it's a yes and a no. we don't have to argue about it now.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. ladies and gentlemen, what i would like to remind you of is that the mayor of riace has created an experiment that the world has studied for years with wonder and admiration, let us study it too: a town that was depopulated was repopulated, a school avoided closure. if it were not for this, mimmo lucano would not be among the fifty most influential men in the world, wim wenders would not have made a film about him talking about "realized utopia". it's worth understanding why these experiments are buried and why the mayor is first arrested for minor irregularities, then ostracized by riace as in italy is done only with the mafia bosses.
mr rodrigues, you have heard the proposal from the alde group. do you reject it, do you accept it, or do we vote on your proposal?
i always remind you that this is a decision of the judicial authority, so it is not a political decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to avoid speaking, but for many years we have heard in this parliament absolutely positive opinions on the action of the judiciary, regardless of whether it is a judicial authority or not. today, however, we are faced with an attempt to question the action of the judiciary altogether. i think there is as much hypocrisy as in this parliament and as much hypocrisy as in europe as a whole on this issue.
i think mr rodrigues is asking for his group's proposal to be put to the vote, so we shall vote by roll-call on the socialist group's proposal. (parliament rejected the request) (the order of business is as follows)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since we have been here, we have been called populists many times, and it is usually said that populists are those who are against science. i would also like to refer to the conclusions of the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, which is the body i believe is the most authoritative in speaking on these issues. first, they say we have to halve co2 emissions by 2030; second, net emissions must be zero by 2050. thirdly, we must drastically reduce the energy demand of industry, transport and buildings. if we don't do these things soon, it will be a climate catastrophe in the next 10 or 20 years. so the planet is going to crash and in this house, unfortunately, we always talk about populists. we need to make bold decisions here, we need to make global and epochal decisions to save the planet, and instead we hear the same old words. and since i am sure that the next cop 24 will be the usual parade of heads of state, which will end with the usual nothing done, i believe that the fate here will be that the populists will replace you and, from that point on, it will be our job to take care of the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change are among the priorities of european environmental policies. most of the 2020 targets, however, will not be met, and the mobilization of climate finance, of $100 billion a year by 2020, is also proceeding at a very slow pace. it is necessary to support the establishment of new funding instruments for biodiversity and to propose enhanced accountability tools, in particular for national biodiversity strategies and action plans, in order to improve governance and facilitate the implementation of the post-2020 objectives. climate change, on the other hand, requires intensifying the eu's relations with local and regional authorities, strengthening cooperation between cities, strengthening sustainable development models and emission reduction plans in key sectors such as energy, industry, technology, agriculture and transport, for example through twinning programmes, the international urban cooperation programme, supporting platforms such as the covenant of mayors and building new forums for the exchange of best practice.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate we are having today on the draft budget which we shall be voting on wednesday in this house. i think i can say, representing the sentiments of the colleagues who have worked with me on the committee on budgets - and i would like to thank, of course, also and above all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me - i think i can represent the sentiments of everyone in saying that we have presented a budget proposal which is both ambitious and sustainable. sustainable because we are not asking the member states to make additional efforts than they already do in supporting the financial framework and in supporting the budget of our european union, and because we are trying to use all the resources at our disposal, we want to use all the resources at our disposal to give back to the european citizens. ambitious because we try to give answers to all european citizens with the proposals we want to make, as well as to businesses, especially those small and mediumsized enterprises that are suffering, and especially to the most innovative enterprises; we are trying to give important answers to our universities, to our local administrations (regions and municipalities), and we are trying to give answers to our research institutions. as we seek through the budget we have written and which we will be voting on, i think and hope with a large majority on wednesday to give answers to the great challenges that lie ahead of us and our continent: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. we are not trying to give first-hand answers on migration, you see, mr president, but we are trying to deal with the problems as they should be dealt with, point by point and sector by sector, trying to give comprehensive answers or, as we say in this house, a holistic answer. we are trying to give a response which covers all the sectors of these phenomena because, above all, we are trying to give responses which are responses of solidarity but which are also preventive actions. that is why we have also focused a lot on preventive actions. we have concentrated a lot - and our colleagues know this - on the issue of eradication, which is to try to remove the reasons for migration and then try to remove, to defeat, to fight poverty, to try to defeat drought, to try to defeat the reasons why there is migration. and then our biggest challenge, president: the younger generations. a great deal of our budget is devoted to young people, particularly the erasmus project, which is not only a project that is symbolic of our europe but which must become, from next year and in the years to come, a project that all young people on our continent can join. and then the youth guarantee: because the biggest concern of all of us is unemployment, the huge youth unemployment that is sweeping through our country. i am not being naive, of course, mr president, i know that this is a first step, i know that a first step is now being taken, and i think that the others should be taken with the commission accompanying us, and i thank commissioner oettinger for this, and i thank the council, i thank the extreme care that minister loger is putting into the formulation of this budget. the question we must ask ourselves, mr minister, and all of us in the coming weeks and months, before the budget is closed, is what europe and what image of europe we want to give back to the european citizens before the next elections: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. these are the questions we must answer, and if we answer them together, i believe we will find the right answer to give to the citizens, which will return to the values, traditions and stakes we have to face.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i largely share the priorities identified by the rapporteur, starting with sustainable growth, the fight against climate change, action for small businesses and research, aid for africa to really help where there is a problem, namely immigration, and we must use resources, all available resources and, above all, the fight against poverty, the poverty of european citizens. the key point is to see if we can do without a greater contribution from the member states - i wish the rapporteur and this parliament well in doing so - and, because we want to send a signal to the citizens, we are calling for a whole series of spending reviews and cuts, especially in administrative expenditure, from the privileges of members and commissioners, where we should cut tens of millions of euros, to leasing contracts, where we can identify cuts of 300 million euros, to contributions to parties and foundations, 70 million euros, which we could convey to these voices and perhaps convey even more than this parliament is asking for.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in short, we have noted the expectations, concerns, priorities and specific concerns of today's debate and will be making a thorough assessment of them in the coming days. on this basis, after the vote here in the house and before the conciliation procedure begins, we will respond to your concerns and show you in writing what impact the expectations expressed today in euro and cent will have on which programmes. we will also provide the information requested by parliament on conditional reserves, in order to reach an agreement - and this is my hope - on a budget without reserves for 2019 and thus avoid further implementation steps. we believe that the differences between the council, the commission and parliament are manageable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that means from now until november 19th, everyone should work towards it.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to have had the opportunity to witness a very impulsive debate today and to hear a very broad debate about many expectations for this 2019 budget. i think we are all aware that the work of the rapporteurs is also very intensive, and i would like to thank them at this point for giving us the opportunity to steer the process of the forthcoming discussions in the form of a professional and disciplined approach. i admit that it is a matter of opinion whether you want to see an increase of 2% in this council proposal or whether you are talking about cuts here and there, following the commission's proposal, so to speak. i think it will be necessary to find that common point of view on the various subjects. and i also think that i can speak from experience that it will be necessary to talk about the cost side and the investment side. it will be up to all of us to make a clear distinction between where we have the possibility of saving on costs - in the sense of our responsibility to the citizens - and where we have a joint responsibility to invest in ways which also add value to the european union and, above all, to the taxpayers, and thus to all europeans. i am pleased that we are also taking a responsible and sensible approach to the debate in the coming weeks, with a view to the political framework of the 2019 european elections, and i can see my visit here today as a positive investment for me, because i am counting on these many contributions to be well implemented in the coming weeks. thank you very much for that.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course difficult to sum up the conclusions of such a long debate in two minutes. i shall concentrate on a few points, taking it for granted - and i shall be in a hurry to do so - and thanking commissioner oettinger and minister loger for their speeches and contributions, and all the speakers. i want to make two very, very quick points, since i cannot go into the substance of the individual questions. mr president, i am not telling you this, commissioner oettinger told you this and the other members of the commission have told you this: the commission's budget contains cuts, not increases. we can always play the game of seeing the glass half full or half empty: we see it as half empty, you probably see it as half full. it is halfway, exactly, we have to decide whether that glass is half full or half empty, but the commissioner tells him and we tell him: these funds are not enough. we need a budget which really meets the needs that already exist today and which the commission has highlighted. i thank you for your reference to the respect of the agreements: i fully support this proposal of yours. this parliament has always respected the agreements and intends to do so again from now on. and as regards agreements, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his willingness to deal with the issue of the refugee instrument for turkey, a measure which we fully support and on which we would like to refer again, and we would like to refer to the agreements which have already been reached between the institutions, that is to say in the first version proposed by the commission. finally, on the question of emergencies, mr minister, emergencies are dealt with with emergency funds, they are not dealt with by setting aside money for emergencies that you do not know if there will be, hoping that there will never be. and finally, this parliament, myself first and the whole commission, will use up the last minute of opportunity, we want to use up the last minute of opportunity to reach an agreement and in this it will find a reliable ally.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the drinking water directive offers us a unique opportunity to defend the right to water. access to clean and safe drinking water for all must be guaranteed without distinction and not just promoted lightly as is being attempted with this european parliament review. we in the five star movement have always carried this battle within the institutions, we are doing it in italy too to promote public water as a common good. that is why we welcomed the european commission's decision to finally respond to the european citizens' initiative right2water and to do so for the first time through a legislative proposal. i would like this to be the exact path that all future ices will take. colleagues, tomorrow we will defend the health of all. let us not forget, and you must not forget, the 85 000 venetians who are under health surveillance because of the contamination of the second largest aquifers in europe by pfas, substances which are toxic and should never be in anyone's blood and which we can regulate tomorrow... (the president cut the speaker off. )
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the directive was the result of the initiative of over 1 800 000 european citizens who demanded that the right to universal access to drinking water be guaranteed: a right, a human right to be guaranteed, not just promoted. we also want to defend a first but important result obtained with regard to pfas, strong endocrine disruptors. a very serious case of pollution by these substances has occurred in the veneto region: nearly 200,000 citizens now have blood levels of these substances hundreds of times higher than normal. the commission has introduced for the first time limits at european level which we consider to be too high. the compromise we proposed in the envi committee reduced the overall limit by 40%. we now hope that the italian government in the european council will also make efforts to improve what has already been achieved and to achieve the near-zero limits that i support. the directive also provides that individual member states may set lower limits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing access to drinking water for all, including through the european citizens' initiative right2water. i hope that the text which will be put to the vote tomorrow will make a major change to article 13, which does not merely provide for invitations but sets quality parameters for access to and quality of water. today we are also here to support the causes of the "no pfas" mothers of the veneto region, mothers for whom the water that was a source of life has turned into a source of death. we therefore call for the tolerance level for these substances in water to be set at zero. we cannot accept the logic that puts economic profitability above the health of the people. european legislation obliges us to apply the precautionary principle. these substances and all their derivatives must be banned. since they can't applaud from the audience, i'll applaud them from here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vella, first of all i would like to thank mrs dantin for her valuable work in following up the european citizens' initiative right2water, which called on the commission to ensure that a basic good like water could flow from the tap and be of a quality that is acceptable to all consumers and all european citizens. we want to build consumer confidence and encourage the use of water from our taps, but in setting the parameters that increase water quality we must be careful not to overdo it and not to make it impossible to consume water in certain areas of europe. this is something that is likely to happen in the territory of my region, under the etna volcano, where the volcanic soils are rich in boron and the boron parameter of one milligram per litre proposed by the commission is a very low parameter. efsa itself recommends a higher parameter for the most susceptible categories of consumers; the world health organization has a parameter that's 2.4 times higher. that is why we have tabled an amendment which would allow water to be used in our regions too, and that is why i would ask you to vote for amendment no 180. i agree with the idea of tightening up controls, of guaranteeing consumers, but we must not go beyond what the precautionary principle also requires.
in writing. the drinking water directive is one of the pillars of european water legislation. introduced in the late 1980s, it needs - after more than 20 years - to be revised to bring drinking water quality standards in line with the latest scientific evidence and to adapt the legislative framework to better respond to new challenges such as climate change and the transition to a circular economy. this is the first time that european legislation has taken on board the demands of a european citizens' initiative, which actually went beyond the position reached in the envi committee. for this reason, i have supported the introduction of certain amendments to support the objective of providing universal access to water. the member states must take all the necessary measures to ensure universal access to water, which i consider to be a fundamental right. the revision of the drinking water directive is a great opportunity to finally incorporate this right into legislation and to show that the european union is able to influence concrete issues in the daily lives of european citizens. i agree with all the amendments to reduce or eliminate pfas levels in drinking water.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must also move with great ambition on plastics. our courage and our determination were key to reaching the paris agreement, and they can be key to single-use plastics. in recent days japan, which did not sign the ocean plastics charter at the g7 in july, announced bold first steps to reduce consumption. that is why we in the envi committee did well to make the directive more ambitious, we did so in a sustainable and reasonable way. the vote in the chamber in strasbourg will take us five important steps forward: taking measures that are beneficial for our oceans; take an important step towards curbing an unsustainable throwaway and disposable culture; support innovation and scientific research to create new jobs by developing environmentally sustainable production; strengthen extended producer responsibility in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle; give our citizens more information; recycle more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are facing a huge problem, the exact extent of which we do not know, and the consequences of which we do not know. we're finding out a little bit at a time with the studies. we know that nanoplastics are entering our bodies, we know that microplastics are entering the food chain, and we're seeing more and more species being detected with these microplastics every day. it's just a few days ago that the study analyzed samples of sea salt, of cooking salt that we use in our kitchens: 92 percent of this salt contains microplastics. the commission has made an interesting and very good proposal, the envi committee has had the merit of improving it further, but now we need industry on our side, and not in the way it is represented in the amendments of many colleagues, particularly italian colleagues, that is, not the industry seeking derogations, seeking ways of circumventing the problem, but the industry that sits with us at the table and tells us how we can solve the problem, without seeking derogations and without looking for loopholes. this is what we need, because the people want an effective and concrete response.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we cannot vote no, that we must support this directive because it will in any case make it possible to reduce the production of plastic waste considerably. however, 46 billion plastic bottles are produced in the european union every year, and since it takes about 400 years to dispose of this plastic, it is easy to calculate that in 20 years a billion billion plastic bottles will be produced and accumulated. we all know that all of this plastic is going to end up in the food chain, and so we eat and drink plastic every day. in the face of this scandal, we have unfortunately not been able to impose binding targets to reduce plastic bottles once and for all. we honestly believe that because of our lack of courage today we are wasting a unique opportunity, a historic opportunity to save our planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can you say that europe is represented here? it's a shame, you know. the plastic pollution in the seas is 95 percent from asia and africa, and the problem is solved by acting there. the economic crisis is enduring, you force us to adopt austerity policies, but nobody touches the french deficit or the german surplus, and your priority is to ban plastic sticks, balloons and plates under the pretext of saving the environment? why has vice-president timmermans put so much pressure on this dossier? such an important topic would have required a more thorough analysis. this is bullshit, you're out of touch! plastic needs to be collected and recycled, not banned, and it's not yet possible to replace it. you have rightly reduced the use of paper by making it compulsory to use digital paper, and then compulsory to use paper for plates and cups? what's the point? you do this for your companies in northern europe? the only companies that will really be affected are those in italy, whose quality you cannot beat, and so you resort to these means. this is an attack on italy at a time when we are finally raising our heads in europe! vice-president timmermans, commissioner moscovici, look at the data! you don't have the slightest... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing the impact of plastics on the environment and the seas is an absolute necessity in the light of the worrying data on this subject. as rapporteur for my group in the committee on agriculture, i have put forward, in addition to the desire to consider plastics which pollute the soil, the request for a careful assessment of many outstanding issues in the directive: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the directive is unfortunately not sufficiently incisive, it sometimes generalizes where distinctions are necessary and in other cases it is too timid, it does not consider closed systems where recycling is efficient, it does not distinguish biodegradable plastics from other plastics, and these are just a few examples. so we have to be honest. more courage on the part of some groups would have led to corrective measures and a better understanding of how to reconcile economic sustainability with environmental sustainability, both of which are shared goods and must be defended.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the difficult work she has done in finding a minimum common denominator. i agree with the aims of the proposal: the problem is there and it is obvious to everyone, but we must take a balanced approach to protecting the environment, the seas and the oceans, but also be careful to initiate a gradual and feasible economic transition, both for producers and for our citizens in their dual role as consumers and also as workers in the sector. plastic is an important material that should not be demonized but whose use should be progressively and steadily reduced. but there is a balance to be struck in this measure and one of the things i asked for, and that is why i tabled the corrective amendments, was that the list of prohibitions and bans in the proposal should not be extended in relation to ultra-lightweight plastic bags. as my colleague mrs auken, who was rapporteur, and i, the committee chairman, will recall, after a very difficult trilogue we succeeded in bringing the plastic bags directive into force in 2015. and now to think that we have steered the technologies in one direction and after two years of that directive we change course with the ban... it seems to me too soon, we must envisage a gradual exit and a reduction target, not the ban. i do not think that is the right way to do things in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, moody's has downgraded italy's public debt to one notch above the junk level. tomorrow the commission will probably fail in its manoeuvre, as has been whispered for days now. i say this with sincerity: i am not worried about the strain on the deficit-to-gdp ratio, france and germany have done it before us. what concerns me are the objectives, the lack of investment and the respect of european rules. italy must reduce public debt, create jobs and growth, reduce social disparities. the signals that come at this hour are dramatic: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. an entire generation will spend their lives with the burden of public debt on their shoulders, all because of the choices of a government that cannot go beyond propaganda. richer and richer, poorer and poorer, in a country that is now isolated from europe and the world. the first to condemn italy today is sebastian kurz, an ally of the five-star government. i'm very happy for you. i would like to say to my fellow members of the five star movement and the league: history will remember you as the ruling class that destroyed the future of our youth. politics is measured by results, not the sneaky ads you've become accustomed to... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is still causing great damage. the south of italy is once again being hit, particularly calabria, which is paying a very high price, also in terms of loss of human life, for the lack of protection of the territory and the hydrogeological disorder. i was in calabria, in lamezia terme, during the hours when the torrential rains fell and i saw firsthand the damage caused to the agricultural sector, to the infrastructure, to the farm and rural structures which must be restored as soon as possible in order not to further damage the existing fragile economic fabric. italy is now the victim of environmental disasters on a cyclical basis and urgently needs a general plan for the prevention and safeguarding of the territory. the direct and indirect funds provided by the european union to combat climate change cannot be enough. the budget deficit/gdp ratio should be broken down by investment in the security of areas affected by the unforeseen climate change disasters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a very violent storm struck eastern sicily last friday, particularly in the province of catania, with villages cut off by four rivers, houses flooded, families evacuated and damage worth hundreds of millions of euros, orange, artichoke and all kinds of vegetables completely destroyed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. climate change in sicily is even more evident than elsewhere and coldiretti, an organization of the agriculture sector, claims that this 2018 has been the hottest year since 1800, with 1.8 degrees above the average of september. the request for a state of emergency, already made by the local authorities, is not enough. i ask the commission to take responsibility for assessing the situation and to intervene also with the eu solidarity fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the theft of data from facebook, which was then used by the political consultancy cambridge analytica, raises important questions about the means we have to counter such phenomena. these are the questions we must answer, and we are asking them from the 500 million european citizens whom we represent here. we know that the business model of the big multinational web companies is based on collecting user data, which has become the new black gold, and then monetizing it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. we must start by educating citizens so that they are not mere consumers but conscious members of society. we need to equip citizens with the necessary tools to enable them to use new media and new technologies, alerting them to what it means to live in a world where we are constantly connected. we must make the new generations aware of the importance of the right to privacy and the protection of personal data and of its practical applications. we still have time to turn the page and prevent scandals like this from happening again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to go back on our resolution, which i support. i hope that the commission will now work to protect the european elections from interference which, following these hearings, appears not only possible but absolutely foreseeable. i wanted to raise a question that has to do with the whole fact that we're waking up from a world where everything seemed free and we're finding that, in fact, the price we pay for this world of the free internet is the use of our data for economic and electoral purposes. so i think the problem is more complex and needs to be addressed: and as we move into a future where more and more people are going to use these kinds of platforms, we're going to build a fair relationship where you pay for what you use, but you're protected in your identity and your data use. i think there is also a problem with public platforms because, as always, when large monopolies are created, the public can intervene both in regulating monopolies and through different public instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack on facebook on september 28th put the personal data of millions of people at risk: from basic information to bank details linked to facebook profiles, everything was targeted. after cambridge analytica, this new scandal shows that facebook is still not able to ensure full compliance with the european union's data protection legislation, in particular the general data protection regulation and the e-privacy directive. after the cambridge analytica scandal facebook had promised a full internal audit: if that has happened, the european parliament has not yet been informed. facebook must allow enisa and the european data protection board to carry out an independent audit of its platform. facebook needs to make substantial changes to its platform, not only to ensure compliance with european union data protection law, but also to improve its transparency, to stem the risk of further political manipulation of facebook profiles, and to prevent fake news from infecting the upcoming elections.
i welcome, on behalf of parliament, the president of the republic of romania, mr klaus iohannis, who will be the keynote speaker today in the debate on the future of europe (2018/2732 ((rsp)). i thank him for accepting our invitation to discuss with us, in a real debate, what romania's proposals for the future of europe are, to prepare together - the european parliament, the commission and the member states - a strategy to revive the european dream, which despite the difficulties it faces remains the only possibility for our fellow citizens. that is why i am very pleased to have the president of romania with us today, on the eve of the six-month presidency of the european union, and during the romanian presidency the elections will also take place. so today we'll have a chance to confront him after we've heard him. before i give the floor to president iohannis, i would remind you that you can request the "catch the eye" using the electronic voting device.
president iohannis, thank you very much for coming, and now you have the floor. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president iohannis, when i think of romania, i think of the many romanians living in italy, the many i know and have met. in their stories there is the image of a great country, rich in beauty and tradition, but also a country that has to deal with long-standing problems, starting with corruption. we saw this this summer with the protests that took over the streets of bucharest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cost to the union as a whole is estimated at 120 billion a year. it is clear to all that corruption destroys the economy and social justice, hurting honest citizens and businesses, punishing those who deserve it and rewarding those who are friends of power. corruption is the most serious theft that can be committed in a state because it steals the future. i understand them well, mr president, because i too come from a land of emigration and corruption. for decades i have been told that there is little that can be done about this, that we have to accept it because all politicians are the same, because this is politics, and public administration and the state will never change. but it's not like that! politics, good politics, can and must fight corruption. what do you mean, "what"? with laws, like the one we just passed in italy, increasing the penalties for corrupt and corrupters, protecting whistleblowers and introducing a clear principle: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. these are measures and principles which would be good to apply at european level, such as the whistleblower measures which parliament called for a year ago but which are a dead letter. and as for the dead letters, since the subject is the future of europe, it would be good if the european union started thinking about guaranteeing a future for its citizens, instead of leaning on the defence of bankrupt rules. i refer to what is happening in these hours with the unilateral attacks on the economic manoeuvre proposed by the italian government: we have seen european commissioners reject the text before they even read it, citing cruel punishments from the markets. there was even a commissioner who, just after the elections, had already announced that high finance would change the minds of italians about who to vote for. the truth is that austerity and its rules have failed. we were told that to reduce the public debt we had to cut social spending and investment. in italy it was done, but the public debt remained almost unchanged. we were told that with the accounts in order growth and employment would be redistributed, but the reality is that the economy has been stagnant for years, households are eating up their savings, businesses are failing and young people are emigrating. the government, of which my movement, the five star movement, is a part, has said enough. austerity is killing the european union and the eurozone needs new budgetary rules if it is to survive, but while waiting to change them a state cannot hang itself and its citizens to the wrong constraints. i think that even one institution, the german institute for economic research, confirms the goodness of the italian government's move. the director of the institute says that italy's problem is not this year's deficit but its economic depression. europe should recognise that higher public spending and deficits are useful if they are focused on growth and jobs as the top priorities. are these also the words of a dangerous populist? to those who claim that european standards are being violated, i would remind them that the change in parameters is perfectly compatible with european rules, since italy is still in an exceptional situation which must be taken into account: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. economists say it does. strong support for the poorest is therefore needed for social stability and to boost consumption. that is what we have done with the citizenship income, a measure which this parliament supported only a year ago by a large majority vote on a resolution of our own. the last six months of this term, mr president, will be spent by the romanian presidency: you too, be brave! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, change is therefore possible. in italy there is a government that is promoting it, they have understood it in germany, let them understand it in brussels, once and for all!
i would remind all members that today's debate is on the future of europe, not on the situation in romania, as we had it in the last part-session.
i would like to thank you again, mr president, for accepting our invitation and for taking part in a close debate on the future of europe, not refusing to listen and answer questions concerning your country. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would have expected a more courageous text from this house and that is why i abstained on this vote. we would have expected more courage in following up the right2water initiative and, in particular, more courage in expressing zero tolerance towards pfas substances that poison the blood and lives of thousands of people in the veneto region. we have listened to the mothers of the "no pfas" movement and their concerns, but we have also listened to those who have brought us medical studies that testify to the power of these bioaccumulative substances, both short-chain and long-chain, to poison people's health. in a european union where the precautionary principle is applied, we would have consistently expected a total ban and zero tolerance for pfas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while every election renews the condemnation of the people to the austerity policy, the wrong immigration policies and the non-existent social policies of this european union, the vast programme with which we are presented at the end of the legislature is a tired repetition of all those promises and all those vague commitments of which none has actually been kept. i have a new one: a big investment in disinformation campaigns. while there are countries like mine, italy, which has 5 million poor people - and fortunately there is a government that has finally allocated a social contribution, because europe had not thought about it - i think it would be necessary to reflect on the repeated election results, to reflect on the problem of the immigration challenge, on which you say nothing, there is not a word about readmission agreements, you have done absolutely nothing and do not intend to do anything to solve these problems at their root. aid to africa, a marshall plan for africa, of course, not by funding the usual corrupt satraps but through a system of investment by our small and mediumsized enterprises. we must bring jobs, we must create the conditions for jobs to exist, here and in the countries that export immigration... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i appreciate the results you have identified, the commission has identified, and that you have also opened up a horizon for the institutional reforms needed to save the european project. i believe that this is the perspective we must move towards if we want to make europe love again, and i believe that for the upcoming elections it is right to accelerate much more the adoption of the code of conduct also for social networks and social platforms against the organized disinformation that gives rise to many populisms and nationalisms. i was a little surprised, however, that compared with the reference you made to the social pillar and also to sustainability as a great prospect, you did not indicate in the slightest the educational and cultural aspect of it. without access to culture and education, without improving the quality of education systems, without citizens participating in cultural production and even participating in programmes such as erasmus and creative europe, which are successful but underfunded programmes, there will be no future for the european project. you know that because you've always said that, but you don't say that in this report. please keep these as high goals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the election deadlines make 2019 a special year, a year in which we must close the many projects that have been carried out but also try to project europe into the future. i would like to focus on two issues. the first: we must complete the construction of the digital single market. we've done a lot of things in this legislature, but it's clear that now platforms and artificial intelligence need new rules. we must avoid, mr vice-president, that the digital revolution is established in a way that is contrary to the principles on which the european union is based. second point: we have celebrated 25 years of the single market this year, a success story for europe. of course, the way we have built it over the years, the single market as it stands is no longer enough. we need stricter rules on market surveillance, product controls and clear rules on how services are carried out. i think that is the message we must send to the european citizens in the forthcoming elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank vice-president timmermans for his report. the work programme we are discussing is shorter, given the imminent election deadline, but there is still a great deal of work to be done, in particular we see the inability of the european leaders meeting in the council to find common solutions, we see blocked dossiers, we see europe's inability to advance a political and legislative agenda. we need to unblock this situation, i am thinking of migration issues, i am thinking of the reform of the dublin regulation, but i am also thinking of the implementation of the european social pillar with a social fund, cohesion funds that are able to give answers to european children, so that everyone has the same opportunities, with the child guarantee, with innovative instruments to support work and lifelong learning, to align the union's action with the united nations' sustainable development goals. otherwise we will continue to set ourselves high goals without the means to achieve them and we will only increase the anger of nationalists and the rhetoric against europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing another very big scandal, almost comparable to that of a few years ago, concerning the euribor fraud inflicted on society by very large commercial banks, the famous 'too big to fail' banks, which we have saved with a lot of public money, as other colleagues have said, and very often they, by virtue of their size, are the ones who set the rules. the policy and europe in particular, the european union, must react strongly on this issue by introducing stricter legislation on the exchange of information, because it is impossible for these banks to continue to engage in both fraudulent and pseudo-legal practices in the management of their tax practices, and this must be made clear. the only way to bring clarity is to bring transparency, and to bring transparency we need more information exchange. on this issue my movement, my government and my country agree to do more.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the khashoggi episode is a cold shower for all those who saw in mohammad bin salman the hope of a new saudi arabia, reformist and more respectful of human rights, despite it being clear for some time that the prince was aiming more at a cosmetic restyling than substance. reconstructing exactly what happened on october 2nd is difficult. the only fact that is certain is that khashoggi entered the saudi consulate and never came out alive, probably came out in pieces rather than in a briefcase. the usual dance of declarations began immediately. the latest version is that this was a rogue operation conducted by the secret services without, of course, prince salman and the top intelligence officials being aware of it. the truth, we all knew from the beginning. we need a strong signal now more than ever, because in the midst of so many doubts, one thing is clear: khashoggi was killed partly because those responsible believed they could get away with it. crushing internal dissent works best when it is accompanied by deafening silence from outside, which, in effect, makes those who dare not protest complicit. khashoggi is not an isolated case but a real modus operandi against dissidents. kidnappings, extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearances and vicious smear campaigns are sadly common. despite all this, saudi arabia sits inexplicably on the un human rights council. even in a world of masks and hypocrisy, as it has become our own - under other circumstances turkish reproaches would make riyadh smile - there must be a limit. the king, or rather the prince, is now naked. not a leaf falls in the kingdom of saudi arabia without him being fully informed. what will be our response? are we going to once again entrench ourselves behind false indignation, a whisper in a storm, save to return to business as usual in a short time? how many more khashoggi, how many more badawi do we have to tolerate? as long as impunity reigns, as long as the multimillion-dollar contract business triumphs over rights, we will have cases like khashoggi's. many of you are indignant only today, but we have always said: it is time to implement a total ban on european arms exports. it is time for proper sanctions for those responsible. it is time to stop being complicit in this regime.
on behalf of the enf group. (start of the speech without a microphone) ... a little hairy, a little doubtful when you think of doing this as a unicum, just think of the kgb, just think of what happens to opponents in china, in iran, and then see premise that obviously we also condemn this crime see from the west, and europe in particular, consider the prosecutor of the european democracies that erdogan who keeps more than 300 journalists in prison. your friendly turkey is the world capital of imprisoning journalists: five were sentenced to life imprisonment, and 3,000 were deprived of the right to work in their profession. so let us seek that truth, i agree with the high representative, but let us seek it in all directions. let's tell the whole truth, for example that this reporter is not the regeni of the situation: he was a man who, in his own right, was supporting qatar, supporting the muslim brotherhood, which is not exactly a democratic organization. and so let's move on, let's get clear and ask ourselves who might be the political victim of this attack, maybe the one who wanted to reform saudi arabia's internal situation in his own way and maybe the very concrete oil interests.
mr. president, colleagues, high representative, the khashoggi story could be the plot of a spy story, or a pulp film: it's a story set in a consulate, where the protagonist is torn to pieces, and it involves disguises of doubles, secret agents and autopsy experts who dissect with bone sawdust. unfortunately, this is not hollywood fiction, but the sad reality. yes, because in this unfortunate case the victim is real, the pain of the family members, to whom we offer our condolences, is real, and the senders are real. the saudi's embarrassing version of events is fictitious, claiming that khashoggi died as a result of a fight. sure, a fight between a 60-year-old and 15 men who came specifically from riyadh: that's a very credible thesis! the prince, unable to deny saudi responsibility, is now demanding, under international pressure, an additional month to conduct the investigation. this suggests two possible scenarios: either the saudi prince is no longer in control of his kingdom, or, more likely, he is directly responsible for the tragic events in istanbul and is just buying time. what happened is clear to all: the remains of poor khashoggi's body were recently found but despite that, once again, there will be no consequences. once again we will allow the saudis to mock us, to throw all their brutal inhumanity in our faces, we will allow it in the name of two universally revered deities: the god of money and the god of oil. ladies and gentlemen, this case is one of countless other human rights violations by saudi arabia, present and past. that is why i keep asking myself how it is possible that saudi arabia still has a seat on the un human rights council. it is a scandal indeed, and we have a duty to ask the un general assembly to take action. in this serious context, europe should learn to speak with one voice, clear, unequivocal and resolute, avoiding unacceptable leaps forward by individual states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, this morning hatice cengiz, khashoggi's fiancée, sent me a letter which i gave to you a short while ago. what you have written in this letter is enough to understand what happened in istanbul, which a commission of inquiry can only confirm. let 's be clear . it is completely ridiculous to claim that 15 men arrived from riyadh and entered the consulate in istanbul and tortured and killed a journalist operating in the dark of the crown prince. what happened is not only a fact of unprecedented gravity but it proves, once again, that the changes announced by bin salman, with his tour of the world capitals, were nothing but a cover while the regime continued to behave in an authoritarian and repressive way. what has happened now requires the european union and the member states, including my own brother, mr corrao, to end a political phase marked by realism and to reconsider the framework of diplomatic relations with riyadh, providing for the suspension of the arms trade on the one hand and targeted sanctions against the current saudi leadership on the other. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i'm talking about targeted sanctions against the saudi leadership. i do not have the truth in my pocket, but from what has happened i think i can safely say that there is a political responsibility, there is a mastermind. the author is in riyadh and therefore it is important that we go there, establish the truth there and implement all sanctions policies against that leadership, using all the tools at the disposal of the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in venezuela maduro is the head of an infamous communist dictatorship that is killing the venezuelan people. in venezuela, political dissidents are arrested and killed by the regime's police. in venezuela, children and the elderly are starving to death because of lack of medical care. there is a large italian-venezuelan community there, 150,000 people forced to abandon everything and flee abroad to escape the persecution of the maduro regime. the venezuelans are genuine refugees, anti-communist and catholic refugees whom europe, you, commissioner mogherini, and the vatican, are pretending not to see. it is shameful that you are silent, commissioner mogherini, and it is shameful that the left is silent, thinking only of the false african refugees and not saying a word about the real anti-communist refugees from venezuela. we have a duty to help our venezuelan brothers, we have to bring down the communist dictatorship, wipe out dictator maduro and restore freedom to venezuela. freedom for the venezuelan people, freedom for our italian-venezuelan brothers.
mr president, i have listened to this debate very carefully and i would just like to remind you that we have discussed the situation in venezuela here on several occasions in recent months. the situation is worsening, my colleagues are very accurately describing the economic and immense tragedy that the venezuelan people are experiencing today, and the question is whether we, madam high representative, are able to use the instruments of international law, international diplomacy, to force the dictator maduro to at least allow the entry of troops capable of providing humanitarian aid and those international organizations willing to provide humanitarian aid into his country, thereby reducing the immense catastrophe for the venezuelan people. however, as long as maduro is a dictator, then it is necessary to perceive that such tragedies as the murder of an activist, the politics of albania, will be a reality and no one will do anything about it. so i think we need to put a lot more pressure and at least help people in this huge economic tragedy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, we have said this again today: the situation of protracted political stalemate in venezuela, which has led to a humanitarian, social and economic crisis affecting the country and has led to a real mass exodus, is increasingly worrying. more than two million people, including many children, have left the country to escape the harsh living conditions and repression of an increasingly authoritarian government. it is true that aid is needed to support neighbouring countries in coping with the enormous humanitarian effort to ensure a dignified reception of all refugees, but a long-term peaceful solution is needed, and for this europe will need to step up its international mediation efforts with the venezuelan government to end the violation of rights and restore democracy. i agree with your proposal, mrs mogherini, to set up a contact group to check whether the conditions are in place for a political process leading to a democratic solution involving all regional and international actors.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by saying that, luckily, i have seen in the member states and in the council more unity than in this chamber. sorry, i am being blunt, but i want to start from just describing the situation as i have seen it in the past four years and still saw it last week. there is no member state asking for a review of our sanctions policy and there is no member state arguing that we should currently engage in mediation. we have to start from a point of clarity and truth about this. we can be against something but if nobody else is proposing that something then it’s a pure exercise of rhetoric. i think we need to discuss things as they are. things as they are currently are as i described them at the start – and maybe some of you joined the debate after my initial contribution – that we are keeping our position exactly as it has been in recent years, on the need for freeing the political prisoners, the need for elections, the need to have the constitution fully respected and applied, and so on and so forth. we are keeping our sanctions in place. as i said, that was quite something because it was the first time we had introduced targeted sanctions in latin america, which was not a decision taken lightly by our member states. they were united on that, and they continue to be united in that respect. in the meantime, we are saying two things, and i think we can agree on these two things. one: that the solution has to be peaceful, and i would have liked to have heard that a bit more clearly in some of the speeches from around the chamber, because the idea of some form of military pressure or intervention is floating around. i think that, as europeans, we are fully united on the fact that, in venezuela, any sort of military pressure or intervention could actually be counterproductive because we know the nature of maduro’s attitude. that is all he is waiting for. come on! the negative outside effect could strengthen the fight against the outside. and we are worried: not worried, or at least i am not worried, about having an ideological fight as to whether we support one kind of ideology or the other, but we are seriously concerned about the situation of a country that has millions of people in a difficult situation, among them one million european citizens. so we care: we care about finding a solution. how can that solution be found? the european position – which i think has been reflected well in the great majority of your positions – is first that any solution can only be a political, peaceful solution; and second, and equally importantly, that it has to be a democratic outcome – a democratic outcome, involving all venezuelans because, as i said earlier, we are not, and we will never be, in favour of an external imposed solution. it has to be a venezuelan solution and it has to involve all venezuelans. this is the difficulty of the simple exercise of looking for democracy. this is the balanced, united position that the european union has stressed in recent weeks. we will now try to explore whether the conditions exist for establishing the contact group. as i said, i would not want to raise expectations, because i think this is extremely complicated as an exercise. however, i think it’s worth trying not to initiate a mediation process or a dialogue but to see if the conditions are in place to establish a contact group that could start working on establishing the conditions – which are currently not there – for re-launching this political process. i said this very clearly at the beginning, perhaps some of you were not there when i said it. i want to say something else very clearly, even if i ought to be sitting on the council side to say it, namely that i have seen no divisions among member states on this position. i have seen a very clearly united stand behind this effort that we are now starting to explore. one last point on the international criminal court (icc) investigation. some of you raised this. currently, a preliminary examination is being conducted by the office of the icc prosecutor and, as you know, the european union is a strong supporter – probably the strongest supporter – of the icc’s role in bringing perpetrators to justice. so we now trust the icc prosecutor’s assessment on whether or not the rome statute requirements to initiate an investigation have been met in the case of venezuela. we trust the icc, as an institution, to carry out the preliminary examination that is currently being undertaken, and then we’ll take it from there.
the motions for resolutions, which must be tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) (or rule 128 (5), as the case may be), will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a comprehensive mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (2018/2886 ((rsp)).
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against corruption and the fight against crime. this is a good thing in itself, since the union is based on a concept of the rule of law which is not limited to the application of the law but includes human rights. i agree with the idea of establishing a preventive mechanism which would act as a buffer against possible infringements and would clearly represent an objective, neutral and above all non-punitive response to the existing instruments. this is all the more so in view of the risk that the question of the rule of law will become a field of electoral or inter-state dispute, that it will be called into question selectively on the basis of partisan considerations, leading in fact to an emptying of the rule of law itself. i do not believe that frans timmermans's actions are partial. that is why i think he would appreciate a mechanism that is driven by such a great, continuing and deep need for impartial expertise.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the most ridiculous thing i’ve seen today is a tweet just put on twitter by ms in 't veld where she writes: ‘eu commission vice president @timmermans eu sees no need for a comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law in europe. apparently everything is just fine’. i can stand a bit of political rhetoric, but here you just make yourself ridiculous. have you not seen what we’ve done over the last couple of years? have you not had the time to look – even glance over – the commission work programme, where we announced that we will take these measures, and still you come up with that tweet? have you not had a debate with me on these issues so many times over the last couple of years, and still you come up with that tweet? how can i take that seriously? and by the way, do i really have to explain to this chamber what the cooperation and verification mechanism is, where that comes from? do i really have to explain that article 2 is binding on every member state and that, as a result of article 2, the separation of powers is an essential element of the working of the rule of law in the member states? do i really have to explain that to you, mr marias, still, after all these years? i think not, frankly speaking. and do i still have to hear, every time a country is criticised: ʻoh, you shouldn’t be criticising us – double standards – look somewhere elseʼ. is that the nature of this debate? i hope not. i hope we can find a mechanism that is more structured. i hope we can improve the rule-of-law mechanism. but be very careful that you don’t give an excuse to those who don’t want to be under scrutiny, who want to have the freedom to do whatever they like with the rule of law, that they can say, you know: ʻas long as there’s no mechanism, don’t look at us’. the commission takes its responsibilities extremely seriously, and we have done that over the last four years. it’s not always been easy, but we will continue to do that. this is our responsibility. this is what we take seriously. article 7 is a very concrete measure. the lists of infringement procedures are very concrete measures. asking the european court of justice for interim measures to safeguard the independence of the supreme court in poland is a very concrete measure, and the court of justice has acted on that request of the commission in a very concrete way. this is what we are doing very concretely, and i would not want what we are doing concretely to be relativised by saying: but we need a more comprehensive mechanism. there could be very good arguments for a more comprehensive mechanism, but it’s not an alternative for what we’re doing; it’s additional to what we’re doing and it should not weaken what we’re doing. finalement, une remarque, parce que j’ai entendu m. lebreton citer jacques prévert, ce qui m’a un peu étonné étant donné l’orientation politique de jacques prévert et celle de m. lebreton. je voudrais donc le confronter avec quelques lignes de jacques prévert qui représentent pour moi aussi l’accomplissement de l’intégration européenne depuis la seconde guerre mondiale. c’est aussi une très belle réponse à ceux qui croient que le nationalisme proposerait un futur pour l’union européenne. et je cite jacques prévert: «soyez prévenus vieillards, soyez prévenus chefs de famille, le temps où vous donniez vos fils à la patrie comme on donne du pain aux pigeons, ce temps-là ne reviendra pas, prenez-en votre parti, c’est fini, le temps des cerises ne reviendra plus», jacques prévert.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as background to this discussion, let me assure you once again that the austrian presidency and the council as a whole attaches great importance to upholding democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. they are at the heart of our concerns, as has been mentioned a few times today. i agree with commissioner timmermans when he stated that we should seek a better use of the given instruments. of course, this does not prevent us from constantly reviewing and improving these instruments. however, let me say a word regarding the doubts about the efficiency of these instruments and, in particular, regarding the article 7 procedure, which were raised, directly or indirectly, by several members of the parliament. i would not describe it only as piecemeal; on the contrary, it is a very important instrument, which has several stages to tackle the issue at stake in different ways, starting with the dialogue and hearings, peer reviews and recommendations, up to sanctioning. in any case, it would be premature at this stage to draw negative conclusions about this very complex procedure, which is being used, as you know, for the first time. to conclude: we, the council, will continue to follow this debate closely, and i can assure members that i have paid particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for a joint debate, the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system in the field of border checks (com ((2016) 0882 - c8-0533/2016 - 2016/0408 ((cod)) (a8-0347/2017), the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (com ((2016) 0883 - c8-0530/2016 - 2016/0409 ((cod)) (a8-0349/2017) and the report by lena janssen, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the use of the schengen information system in the field of border checks (com ((2016) 0882 - c8-0533/2016 - 2016/0408 ((cod)) (a8-0341/2016)), and the report by lena janssen, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the use of the schengen information system for the return of third-country nationals for whom the schengen information system is a residence permit (com ((2016) 0348-0348-08-032/2017)).
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why do you continue to want to put the european citizens in the background? the european commission's proposal, although it could be improved, was already acceptable. in the face of this, parliament's action has weakened a text which, given the wide differences between member states, especially in the judiciary, could have strengthened cooperation between the competent authorities of the states to tackle irregular immigration in a concerted way. so once again, we missed an opportunity. the right to seek asylum has never been called into question, but we, as the direct expression of our citizens, have a duty to ensure the security of our territories. so even if we are in a situation where the fundamental rights of individuals and the principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are fully guaranteed, we must work towards a revision and reorganization of the discipline linked to the issue of irregular immigration, looking at the reality of the facts more frankly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, improving the effectiveness of returns is essential to maintaining citizens' confidence in the european union's immigration and asylum policies. the revision of the schengen information system will make it possible to set up for the first time a system for the exchange of information between member states on return decisions. this system will make it possible to verify whether third-country nationals have actually left the territory of the member states. the new sis will also make it possible to combat terrorism and organised crime more effectively, through mandatory reporting of persons linked to terrorist activities, sharing of the dna of wanted criminals and increased cooperation with europol. for all these reasons, i fully support the excellent work done by mr lenaers and mr coelho to further strengthen sis at european level and to fill some of the gaps that have been present at national level up to now. i hope that the new legal framework will be applied as soon as possible in order to provide the police and coastguard with the most appropriate tools.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i thank you for coming, for filling the seats and for being here to listen to the instructions which this parliament is now going to give. for the second time this year we are discussing the discharge of the council. the management of administrative expenditure is a matter of fundamental importance: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sorry to have to remind you of the difficulties which have been repeatedly encountered up to now, and i therefore say that the council's expenditure should be monitored in the same way as that of the other institutions. however, the council, following the trend of previous years, has not yet responded to the comments we made in our resolution of 18 april. in this second report i have therefore wanted to reiterate the issues currently outstanding. we are waiting, for example, for information on the progress made since the re-election of the ombudsman on the transparency of the council's legislative process, despite the fact that the ombudsman himself asked for a reply to his recommendations by 9 may. i therefore ask the council to forward its conclusions to this parliament as soon as possible. i certainly welcome the interinstitutional negotiations currently under way to strengthen the transparency register, but i hope that they will be successful and that they will lead to the council itself joining the register. on the other hand, as regards the part relating to housing policy, despite occasional exchanges of information between the departments responsible for the buildings of the two institutions, the council still does not provide the clarifications we have requested in this respect. i therefore ask that all data and related expenditure be made fully publicly available, as a sign of transparency towards the citizens we all represent. i therefore renew my call on the council to submit reports on the progress of the building projects and to present a detailed breakdown of the expenditure incurred so far. the pivot point therefore remains the same: respect for the role of parliament in the discharge procedure, as governed by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the financial regulation. it is a matter of paramount importance, as is the control of expenditure by all the institutions. i am therefore very pleased that the council feels it necessary to proceed with the discharge procedure and the fact that you are here tonight is proof of that. as we know, informal exchanges are currently taking place between parliament and the council to discuss possible solutions to this current impasse. i therefore stress the importance of constructive bilateral negotiations leading to a mutually acceptable solution, while maintaining the distinction in the discharge procedure between the role of parliament and the role of the council. i therefore conclude by expressing my hope that the negotiations will proceed and that an agreement will be reached as soon as possible, so that taxpayers' resources are guaranteed and accounted for in the most transparent way.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues and i thank the council for the goodwill of the austrian presidency in seeking to resolve this impasse. the role of parliament as enshrined in the treaty has been rightly repeated by almost all of my colleagues, including myself, and this is a role which is also shared by the vast majority of european citizens, who vote for the members of this parliament and also vote for them to control the money they spend on its operation. so it is desirable that a solution be found to this problem, and the proposal put forward by my colleague mr staes is fundamental because this parliament, like the council, must also take some steps forward to solve this situation. if we can solve it then we can give, in the future, with the figures in hand, a discharge. unfortunately, we do not have these figures at present, so we cannot make any assessments and we will inevitably have to reject the discharge for the umpteenth time. we all regret this, including the citizens.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 17 and 18 october 2018 (2018/2772 ((rsp)).
before i give the floor to the representatives of the political groups, i would like to inform the house of what i said in my speech to the european council. i have insisted on three points which are fundamental to the european parliament. the first point is the dublin reform, which the council should approve and we want it to approve as soon as possible, perhaps even by a qualified majority. the second point was the multiannual financial framework. we are asking for the budget to be increased from 1.1% to 1.3% also through the own resources instrument. the third point is brexit, and i thank mr verhofstadt, mr brok and mr gualtieri, who were in parliament's offices during the council to support parliament's action. we said that for us there are three key points: the citizens' rights, the financial issue and the backstop. if one of these three points is not present, the european parliament will not be able to vote in favour of the brexit treaty.
i do not think that there are any nostalgics or heirs of nazism or the soviet communist dictatorship in this chamber, two horrible and devastating political systems which have inflicted deep wounds on europe. thank god, these two dictatorships have disappeared thanks to the european union. (laughter) there's not much to laugh about, there's not much to laugh about, there's not much to laugh about! you have to respect other people's ideas, even if you don't agree with them. risus abundat in ore stultorum. the fish is a bit of a mess. learn to respect others if you want to be respected. mr farage, learn to respect others, because that is democracy. you're obviously a nostalgic for some dictatorship if you don't respect the opinions of others. we have always respected yours and you have no authority to disrespect the others. keep your mouth shut!
i think mr kamall has given a clear signal, he has apologized to mr bullmann and to the socialist group. obviously, let me finish, then you can talk. i think mr bullmann has accepted mr kamall's apology.
mr kamall has formally apologised. the historical judgment on national socialism, whether it was right-wing or not, is not for us to decide.
mr kamall has apologized. he said that in his opinion national socialism - perhaps the terminology was wrong - was not part of socialism, but it was not, he said, a right-wing ideology, it was a totalitarian ideology, not a right-wing ideology, because for mr kamal... (interruption by mr bullmann) if you let me explain, i'll try to interpret and find a solution. it was an ideology that was neither right-wing nor left-wing, but it was a dictatorial ideology. if we have to say what is right and what is left, we're not done. but the important thing is that he apologized.
i don't know what approach to take. we are now closing the debate. mr kamall has apologized. no one in this house, not even the president, thinks that national socialism has anything to do with the history of the socialist party in europe as a whole, either in germany or in other countries. then the ideological and cultural debate is another matter. mr kamall apologized and explained, i think he made it very clear, that he did not want to offend socialism and did not think that national socialism was akin to socialism. that's what i understood, at least from the translation.
your honor, it's clear to all of us: neither communism nor nazism have anything to do with the parties that are present in this house, either historically or politically. i have said that and it is very clear to everyone. i do not think that mr bullmann wants to associate nazism with the liberal right and i do not think that mr kamall thinks he associates nazism - if he has made the wrong statements he has apologized - with the history of the socialist party, because no one, starting with the president, believes that national socialism can be associated with the history of socialism in europe, nor that national socialism can be associated with the liberal right, because both the liberal right and socialism fought together against the nazi dictatorship and against the communist dictatorship. we must close the debate, otherwise we shall have a historic debate, and that is clear!
mr farage, i would remind you that communism and the soviet union, the communist dictatorship, ended its season when many eastern european countries became members of the european union. (applause) let me finish. now i think you have a duty to respect everyone's position. i respect everyone, i have never laughed when you talk about the united kingdom because i have deep respect for the united kingdom and i expect you to respect the european union. you can disagree, you can go out, but you have to respect the ideas and values of others. and i remind you, mr farage, that until next spring the united kingdom will be part of the european union, because the united kingdom has asked to join the european union, it has not been forced to join the european union. so if 70 years of peace in europe have been guaranteed after the two horrible dictatorships, it is mainly thanks to the european union. that's the story, perhaps you should read it a little more carefully.
there is no question of a blue card because we are late and we have voting hours today. i'm sorry, but that's not possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rather disorderly controversy which followed the speech by mr kamall - to whom i express my full solidarity - shows how sensitive our historical backwardness is still, and how much of a punctum dolens it is, and with which we must come to terms, especially when we risk slandering our political opponents by accusing them of fascism or nazism. we should respond with the wisdom of the jewish president of austria, with the intelligent response he gave to simon wiesenthal when he proposed to him to purge the party of former nazis and said, "i would not like to risk that it is just the two of us". the summit has achieved nothing but empty words to stress the importance of preventing illegal immigration and strengthening cooperation with countries of origin and transit. there was one country, italy, which for years had been asking for help, including in this parliament, and which said that the right course was to block departures. she did it, but she did it on her own, thanks to minister salvini who closed the ports! do it ! and do not go on making useless "bla bla" about european policy. do, do, do! what are you doing? to save lives and prevent tragedies like that of the minors that macron's france dumps like garbage in the woods of claviere! (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european councils and summits pass, and everything remains tragically as it is. if we were to give you a vote, how much should we give you? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the member states. some people are deluding themselves, by suggesting some disgusting omission, that they can leave italy alone again as it has been in recent years. we won't let you. zero on overcoming the austerity. instead of spitting ashes on your heads after the social disasters of recent years imposed on southern europe, you can only find unity by opposing an italian manoeuvre, the manoeuvre of redemption for hundreds of thousands of innocent savers defrauded by the banks, for millions of unemployed who must be re-trained to re-enter the labour market, for millions of minimum pensioners forced to rummage in the garbage at the end of the month. you continue to turn a blind eye to all this, just as you did to the billions given to dishonest banks by previous italian governments, to our courageous reform against corruption, and some even think of cheering the spread, hoping that the markets will do the dirty work in bending an uncomfortable government. shame on you! you have been babbling for half an hour about the labels of totalitarianism without understanding that the real threat of our times is the undemocratic totalitarianism of speculative finance. shame on you! the five star movement will not give up! it's not long now, the real cards will be delivered to you in may.
madam president, this european council, as we have established, will not go down in history. on brexit, the responsibility is clearly on the uk side. we fully back the assessment that negotiations have not achieved decisive progress and president tusk’s decision not to call for a european council in november but to stand ready to do this if and when decisive progress is made. we are close to an agreement, but at the same time what is missing is a decisive and indispensable component of a deal. we reiterate that without a backstop for the irish border, the european parliament will not give its consent to the withdrawal agreement. we are not demanding a border in the irish sea but a simple, decentralised, mostly immaterial fall-back mechanism which shall not pose any challenge to the integrity of the united kingdom, and we stand open to consider solutions like a longer transition and a uk-wide customs union, which will make the likelihood of using such a backstop remote. in this respect, we fully share the overall stance expressed by president tusk and michel barnier. we are calm, open, constructive but very firm on principles, such as the right of citizens, the integrity of the single market, the protection of the good friday agreement, and of course our arms are and will always be open if the uk changes its mind. the lack of progress on the completion of economic and monetary union is a great responsibility of the member states. those who do not understand that we desperately need to complete the banking union, to establish a european unemployment benefits scheme, to make tech giants pay their fair share of taxes and to enhance our investment capacity are making a big mistake. a special mention has to go to the cynical irresponsibility of the italian government, which is challenging the very logic of any common rule and is doing this not to support growth and jobs but to pay with the money and the savings of italian citizens for its electoral campaign, giving amnesty to tax evaders and paving the way for further austerity, making any battle for a better eurozone and more risk-sharing more difficult.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that it is a little sad for those who believe in the european institutions and in europe to have to comment on the october european council, especially when i think of the discussion we had in this house in preparation for the council itself. we have fallen far behind the pale and evanescent decisions of june and i must say that all reference to solidarity, to a common immigration policy, has disappeared. if we take away the brexit decision, i think we can say that it was a european council of nothing, of a failure to exercise its responsibility. and i really wonder why. i mean, we are at the end of a legislature, we are at the end of a "conciliation" too, why give up like this? why do we come to the end of our work with a kind of surrender, a surrender? do we realise that this opens the door to europe's enemies, who are numerous and growing? if i think of this renunciation of serious policy, which has been progressively destroyed and faded from council to council, if i think that my own government has also contributed to this in a decisive way, i am truly disconsolate! and if i combine that, you should know, with decisions that are destroying everything that has been done for integration within national legislation, i really ask you to open your eyes and stand with those who still want a european immigration policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president tusk, at the european council last week there was no agreement on internal solidarity, nor on brexit, nor on the eurozone. what are you all doing here? the dublin reform is missing from the conclusions and there is not a single line on legal and safe ways for refugees to enter the eu. all that is being said is that we must stop the flow of refugees, increase returns, make development aid conditional on greater control of african borders. what a shame! a summit has even been called in egypt by al sisi, when tomorrow marks 33 months since we demanded the truth about who tortured and killed giulio regeni, a european researcher. the great idea of chancellor kurz of mandatory solidarity, even if not as relocations, is nothing but the flexible solidarity already proposed by the slovak presidency two years ago. you fought for two years to get back to the same place you were before? president macron, on the other hand, is calling for reforms in dublin before the elections, but in the meantime he is secretly taking migrants back to the italian forests. you must explain this to the citizens of europe, because you are blocking our work for two years and are making yourselves responsible for the advance of the worst forms of nationalism!
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, allow me to thank all those members who took time from within their small amount of numbers to speak, to set the record straight from other political parties as to the historic role social democracy has played in fighting nazism. thank you. what i would also like to say – because what was said this morning has really affected me emotionally – it’s not so much the comparison that is made or the putting of social democracy in one group with nazism. that’s not new. this is what we’ve seen happening – just go on the internet – for years on the extreme right, where they try and rid themselves from their own heritage by saying that nazism belongs to the left or to social democracy. that’s not new. what is new to me is that the leader in this house of the party of churchill and thatcher would appropriate that narrative. what has happened to the conservative party that not so long ago – in the last 10 years – was still a member of the european people’s party (epp) in this parliament? what has happened that they are now using the same narrative that mr farage and others have been using for many years, a narrative that they’ve always distanced themselves from? has what churchill predicted when he talked about appeasers happened – the only thing you get by feeding a crocodile is that the crocodile will eat you last? has the conservative party finally been eaten by ukip? i hope not. (interjection from the floor: ‘i hope so’) i’m sure you hope so, yes, but i do hope not. i say this because i will make no secret of my deep admiration and affection for the united kingdom and everything it has achieved during european history. i say this also because i don’t want to hide my deep sadness regarding the decision taken by the british people in the referendum to leave the european union. the european union is not a market. the european union is an instrument to help european people solve their differences around the negotiating table instead of at the battlefield. the european union is the best guarantee that no british soldiers will have to be sent to battlefields in europe again, as they have so valiantly done in our common history. the european union is the best guarantor for peace in europe for the ages to come, and for one of the biggest member states to leave that european union is an incredibly sad moment. i want to say that in this house, but, given that decision, we are all under an obligation to do as little harm as possible in the process. as a democrat, as a human being, who in this house has never ever changed their minds on anything? we’ll leave that with the british people. that’s not for us to judge. but i want us to be clear about our obligation as the commission, european parliament and council: that we should do everything in our power to make sure we do as little harm as possible. that is the attitude with which the commission should do this. this will not be helped by exaggerated political rhetoric, by appealing to the darkest angels of european history. let’s have a rational debate, let’s understand that we build bridges – not walls – in this european union. let’s be clear about that. i want to end with a quote from one of my favourite writers, primo levi. i say this because of what was said this morning. i quote: ‘auschwitz is outside of us, but it is all around us, in the air. the plague has died away, but the infection still lingers and it would be foolish to deny it. rejection of human solidarity, obtuse and cynical indifference to the suffering of others, abdication of the intellect and of moral sense to the principle of authority, and above all, at the root of everything, a sweeping tide of cowardice, a colossal cowardice which masks itself as warring virtue, love of country and faith in an idea.’ (applause)
president of the european council. – mr president, thank you for your interesting interventions. i really appreciate your involvement, even if i don’t agree with all your arguments and emotions. you may have noticed that i never try to take too much of your precious time, and today i will also stick to this rule. however, i cannot leave two interventions without a comment. first, on migration. almost all of you have expressed your disappointment with the lack of decisions on migration policy that you were expecting from the european council. i understand your dissatisfaction, because i know that the will of the majority in this house was to establish mandatory quotas. in spite of what you are saying, the european council is building the common european solution for migration policy. but in the centre of this approach is the strengthening of cooperation with third countries, a fight against human smugglers, external border protection – and not mandatory quotas. the real progress in the european council is that today, almost everybody understands that our priority should be stopping the inflow of irregular migrants and not their distribution. on brexit, we want to avoid a hard border in ireland, but there is no guarantee that we can do it. and do you know why, mr farage? because brexit is de facto a political decision to re-establish the border between the union and the uk. brexit is a project to separate the uk from the eu. i don’t know what is going to be the result of the negotiations, but i know that it is the brexiteers who are 100% responsible for bringing back the problem of the irish border. finally, i would like to share with you one remark. listening to the debate here, i get the impression that some of you would like to see a europe where there are no member states and no governments. please do not be surprised that i am not on the same line.
the debate is closed.
you don't know the situation in italy, mr. lamberts. i listened to it. you always have to respect others. you don't know the italian situation. i said that we cannot draw from the italian budget to give money to italians who do not work and to citizens who are not italians and do not work. i said that few italians will have money and that foreigners will have money too. so it's not a benefit for the italians. we're gonna waste money without solving the unemployment problem. i said that we should give money to companies that are able to give jobs to citizens, whether italian or foreign. so, we couldn't express ourselves like that? but it's an opinion and you're free to have an opinion. i did not say that the treaties should not be respected, but i said that because of the treaty, we cannot give to many italians what the government said. you can't interpret my position, i say what i think. i'm not supposed to debate that. i answered and that's enough.
denis mukwege and nadia murad were awarded the nobel peace prize. in 2014 and 2016, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to dr mukwege and nadia murad respectively for their outstanding commitment to human rights. i would also like to mention the case of asia bibi, a christian minority woman who is at risk of being hanged in her own country. asia bibi has angered some women by drinking from a fountain: according to these women, touching christian lips would make the water unclean. after being attacked and denounced for blasphemy, asia bibi is facing hanging. i call on the pakistani authorities to ensure that the woman is given a fair trial and to avoid any form of discrimination or religious prejudice. (applause) i would like to thank
a resolution on the situation in venezuela will be voted on tomorrow. i would like to express the european parliament's indignation at the death of councillor fernando albán while he was in the custody of the bolivarian national intelligence service. we reiterate our call for the government of venezuela to respect human rights and release all political prisoners. the release of 2017 sakharov prize winner lorent saleh is a right decision, but we regret that venezuelan opposition leader leopoldo lopez remains under house arrest.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
mr bay, if you wish to speak on the waiver of immunity, i am sorry but that is not allowed because the persons concerned have been heard by the legal affairs committee and the enf group spoke on this case last monday at 5 p.m. so there is no need to speak again.
and you did speak on monday at 5 p.m., so that speech is exhaustive on the matter.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in previous years, the following technical adjustments will have to be made because of the complexity of the procedure. it is therefore a communication to colleagues. on the figures: the figures in the following lines will be adjusted to reflect the vote of the budg committee. the commission has also proposed that the amount of the appropriations for commitments be increased to eur 269 810 177. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. commitments and payments will be increased to eur 48 653 000 and eur 25 888 246 respectively. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. payments will be increased to eur 18 807 975. line 33 04 77 06, amendment 1753: the following text is inserted: commitments will be increased to eur 1 260 000. on the comments: on line 21 02 07 03, amendment 1700 will be corrected to make the comment correspond to the outcome of the vote by the budg committee. finally, line 15 02 77 23 (amendment 1666) will be moved from heading 1a to heading 3. they're just technical adjustments.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am sorry for being delayed. i was wrongly informed but, on the other hand, i am very happy to have a full plenary session here. i am happy to see that. (applause) by the way, i was following the debate on tv so i saw that you have just adopted the amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for the financial year 2019. i take note of the differences in the position of our two institutions concerning the draft budget for 2019 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee, as required in article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
we thank the minister for his intervention.
mrs rübig, i thank you for this clarification, but of course there was a qualified majority, so everything is fine. 798 was voted by roll call and was rejected.
in the light of the decision to refuse discharge, i propose, in agreement with the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, the following amendment to paragraph 4 to bring the text of the resolution into line with the result of the vote. the text reads as follows: 'the corrective measures taken so far have partially rather than sufficiently addressed the reservations expressed by parliament in its decision of 18 april 2018 to postpone the discharge. (parliament adopted the amendment)
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.39 p.m.)
as we said, the votes scheduled for today will be taken tomorrow.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years have now passed since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and it is therefore necessary to take stock of the current situation in the eu. the economic and social data do not lie and tell us that we are worse off today than we were ten years ago, with rising unemployment, diminishing wealth and a debt-to-gdp ratio that has increased by more than 20 percentage points in ten years. this is the reality of the figures, but beyond these clear macro-indicators there is the reality of daily life, which shows how citizens are increasingly in difficulty and how sharp the differences and mistrust between the countries of the union are, reawakening and reinforcing feelings of fear and mutual distrust that we thought had been buried for some time. it is clear that the treaty and the eu have failed to achieve the objectives they set themselves: there is no welfare, no economic cohesion, no social or territorial cohesion, and no much-vaunted solidarity between countries. it is not surprising that one of the objectives of the treaty is to have a highly competitive social market economy. how, i ask, has this principle been translated into practice? it has resulted in the sacrifice of young people, workers and pensioners to harmful neoliberal policies. we have therefore had youth unemployment, wage cuts and pension cuts - the only prescriptions that brussels has been able to impose on the member states. in the last decade, the treaty and the eu have not been able to give a concrete answer to the three major problems facing european citizens today: the european union is also taking action to combat the illegal immigration of refugees. not only has nothing been done, but the european recipes have actually made the situation worse. i wonder how the european union can improve the situation if a democratically elected government cannot even set its own economic measures but must always be blackmailed by this or that eu commissioner, who after failing at home now wants to decide at home. i wonder what power junker, dombrovskis or moscovici have to decide the future and the hopes of millions of young people, workers, pensioners and the unemployed in italy and elsewhere. the arrogance with which you want to pursue a vision of a centralised union, with ever more powers and competences being taken away from national governments, is leading europe to collapse. perhaps we should forget the mantra of 'more europe' or 'there is no alternative', which you think is the solution to all problems but which in reality has been nothing but the sublimation of an undemocratic system at the expense of the freedoms of the citizens and peoples of europe. i ask you if you have ever wondered why, when european citizens have been allowed to speak directly on eu matters, the outcome has often been quite different from what you expected. the latest eurobarometer says that less than half of italians see advantages in the eu but 60% support this government that you oppose. what are you doing? respect for democracy and the freedoms of the people or take them away? for you, the hand of history is now inexorably moving. those who have supported this failed idea of europe will be swept away by the popular vote. for many years in these halls you have ostracized us, mocked us, silenced us. we'll have our revenge in may. the political shock that will wipe you out will allow the real europe to rise from the abyss into which your misguided choices have brought it.
mr president, it is very interesting to listen to this debate, because it reflects the opinions of those who are trying to abolish the treaty of lisbon, and those who are trying to strengthen the federal character of europe in a significant way and to amend the treaty. as a political realist, i think the treaty is working in principle and i think there is not much political will at the moment to make any significant and substantial change. that is to say, i say for myself: 'let's work with the current text of the lisbon treaty.' i think that it is politically unrealistic at the moment to consider major changes, but let us try to make better use of the things that have not been fully exploited and are contained in the treaty. for example, the consultative role of national parliaments in the adoption of new legislation. that's an area where we have big gaps and where the contract could be better used in the future. i see things there, of course, that i don't think are very good - the empowerment of the qualified majority. the 2015 vote, the quotas, it turned out to be a political mistake. but it's the little things that don't need to change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr zanni, do not be afraid of the following: we europeans, we pro-europeans, are also taking up the challenge of the forthcoming european elections. there will be no anti-european majority in this parliament. of course, we too want to change the lisbon treaty, but for the better. the european union must be given sovereignty in areas where the states are no longer able to manage it on their own, and there are many such areas, from monetary policy to economic policy and the framework of social policies, to justice, defence and foreign policy, to security, which you care about very much, and then the single market, of course, the environment, protection against globalisation. in all these areas we think that the lisbon treaty allows us to go forward, to go forward by fully applying it, but we also think that amendments to the treaties are possible and necessary. many have discussed the subject of democracy. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is fully involved in the decisionmaking process. i am addressing the council here: democracy is majority voting, it is the ability to make decisions and to move forward, not to be blocked by unanimous voting. it is also, of course, the european parliament's legislative initiative, it is the question of a better relationship with the national parliaments, which must monitor the application of european rules by their governments. it is also, of course, to arrive, through the use of the bridge clause or the amendments to the treaties, at a genuine codecision process. and so i think it is time, ten years later, to reflect, but seriously, on what are the union's own competences and what are the competences that should remain with the states, even if we return what we may have lost. we are certain that the pro-european parties will win the next elections and, as i said, we will take up the challenge, we will carry it forward and we will win it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind the members who have been promoting this debate that we have repeatedly asked ourselves in this house and in the committees what the treaty means, whether it is possible to use it to the full for the potential it has, how to change it - i am thinking of the brok, bresso and verhofstadt reports: i am sure that you have made a very great contribution to this work, because it is not in the space of a debate, but in this constructive work that one brings one's own contribution. i don't think i've seen any sign of you in that job. and that is why i think that today's debate is entirely instrumental. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to point out a new target every time, today the target is the treaty, yesterday it was the commission, tomorrow it will be the euro, the day after tomorrow moscovici or juncker or the ecb, in which yesterday we would have had the opportunity to insert an italian name, in reference to our country. i think that this is the instrument of a debate, the aim is to show that in europe, with the lisbon treaty, there is no democracy, no prosperity, no sovereignty in foreign policy. i think there is, because i do not want a europe that is a slave to putin and trump, i want a europe that is sovereign in the name of all its peoples in foreign policy. so i think that this debate has a limit, which i want to reveal here, which is an attempt, we will see it in the coming days, it is europe... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite worrying that the audit opinion on the payments relating to the costs of the european asylum support office is negative. in particular, this appraisal concerns public procurement, recruitment procedures and payments made. this is reflected in your very serious report, for which i am systematically praised in breach of the rules. it is a question, some of our fellow citizens would say, of whether there is anyone who controls the operation of this body and in general of the agencies in operation, perhaps even before these distortions, in this case serious, because of the delicacy of the body, take place. as regards the operation and controls of another very important agency, the ema, whose move to amsterdam has been decided upon with all due process and due reconsideration, is there anyone, may i say, who is monitoring the progress of the construction work? they seem very slow to me, almost stationary. we should check ex ante, so that we do not have to make undue payments which will be harmful to european citizens, to health and to pharmacy. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for giving us a precise and careful picture of the use of the union budget in 2017. it is encouraging to know that there has been a steady improvement in the overall picture, with a gradually decreasing error rate on payments over the last three years. for my part, i would like to stress the importance of auditing, for example in the areas of security and citizenship, which, although they represent a relatively small part of the union budget (about 2%) nevertheless touch on issues that are particularly sensitive and felt by european citizens. in this respect, but more generally in all areas of expenditure, i believe that the recommendations put forward by the court of auditors deserve careful consideration and require a precise assessment of the performance and european added value of expenditure in order to ensure the most correct use of the union budget.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened attentively to your communications. we shall evaluate them and come back to them in the course of the further discharge procedure. i am grateful for the recognition given by many members to my staff in the commission services for their proper implementation of the budget. i can also accept and take up the expectations of many members here, and i think some critical remarks are worth considering. thank you for your factual comment. if we still see that some programmes have been delayed in 2018, what are the reasons and what should we learn from this for the next budgetary framework? firstly, as the current budgetary framework was only adopted by the council and parliament in mid-december with all the implementing rules, the first year and also the second year of the budgetary framework were lost time, so 2014 and much of 2015 were lost time. it was only in 2017 that all the programs started to run at full speed. this can be particularly noted for 2018 and the implementation of the budget this year. secondly, n+3 does not put a lot of pressure on us to produce invoices quickly and to ask for reimbursement. only a few months ago we virtually completed the 2007-2013 budgetary framework. it is only now that the authorities have some latitude to apply for and receive funds from the current budgetary framework. that's why n+2 instead of n+3. and our joint recommendation - that of parliament and the commission - to the council is to do everything possible to ensure that the next budgetary framework can be adopted before the next elections. this will allow preparations to take advantage of the programmes from 1 january 2021. this lesson must be drawn from the consultation processes of the current budgetary framework, from 2011, 2012 and 2013. thirdly, simplification of the rules governing our programmes. we have clearly associated simplification with our proposal for the next mff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in some cases, it was only at the beginning of last year that some member states and regions designated the authorities responsible for implementation and programme execution. the lessons to be drawn from the present budgetary framework are these. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a very good one. thank you for your advice.
president of the court of auditors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking all of you for your words of support for our work. mr lazarou, who as the main rapporteur in the house did the essential work in drawing up the annual report, and i will be happy to pass this on to all the other members and staff of the house. mr czarnecki mentioned that for 24 years now, since the entry into force of the maastricht treaty, we have had to submit the so-called statement of insurance as a court of auditors. we have been giving a negative judgment for 22 years and now for two years we have given a limited positive judgment. i think that's a really positive development. i want to emphasize this again: this is not due to miscalculation or down-counting of the error rate, but it is simply due to the fact that the data actually got better. we have made considerable progress on compliance within the european union, although i do not want to rule out the possibility that next year the picture may not look so good. this is also linked to the fact that we have of course had a relatively small share of cohesion expenditure this year and cohesion expenditure tends to have a slightly higher error rate anyway. so it is not excluded that perhaps the picture next year will not look quite as good as it did this year. i would like to make one further comment on the error rate. this is -- and this is often misunderstood, unfortunately -- not an exact calculation, this is a mathematical-statistical method that you as politicians all know from opinion polls, where you take a sample, and then on that basis you calculate what the likely error rate is. but this always has a variation of about +/- 1% on average, and therefore it must be made very clear that if you make concrete statements about concrete percentages above a certain threshold, namely below the materiality threshold, then they have a relatively low actual statistical value. we are therefore increasingly considering as a court - we will think about this again next year - whether we should not completely spare ourselves all statements that are below the materiality threshold and delete them altogether. this is a question we shall discuss further, simply to avoid any further misunderstanding in this context. the ral, the rest à liquider, has of course played a major role in the debate. i would like to say again very explicitly - to avoid any misunderstanding here too - that rals are normal, as commissioner oettinger has quite rightly said. what concerns us is the sheer scale of the fact that we have ral at the moment on the order of twice the nominal annual budget. of course, this is also a consequence of the n+3 rule. the n+3 rule was introduced in 2008 or after 2008 in the context of the financial crisis, as member states experienced problems in co-financing or financing the planning, implementation and execution of projects. but the financial crisis was ten years ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that mr flanagan, mr van nistelrooij and mr hayes have already made the reference to the mff. you can expect that in the next few days we will be deciding on individual opinions, opinions on agricultural policy, cohesion policy. because the request is for your home, we're happy to do the same for horizon and other topics that are important to you. i want to speak about the error rate because mr kohn has rightly raised the subject, and i am very grateful for that. if we find an estimated error rate of 2.4%, this does not mean that €3.3 billion of eu funds have been wasted. it doesn't mean that. it simply means that we have found errors in the way these funds have been spent, either legal, or in most cases legal, or accounting errors. this is not a question of the usefulness of the expenditure. these funds, even if they were flawed, could have been spent in a very sensible way. it is equally conceivable that funds which have been spent lawfully have been spent in a completely pointless way. this is a compliance check. so all we do is check that things are right legally and mathematically. the other aspect of usefulness is examined in the performance, i.e. in the audit reports, which we are already producing in large numbers - up to 50 per year - at the moment as the european court of auditors. the performance ratio also plays a role in the annual report. we're working on ways to improve this internally, to give you better information about this in detail. the value for money issue has also been raised here; european added value is also a topic that is primarily relevant to the question of performance and only very limited to the question of compliance. mr ashworth rightly pointed out that a large part of the responsibility also lies with the member states. i think that is correct and that should not be forgotten. the commission is not to blame for everything. but it has to stop and monitor the member states to make sure they are doing things right. so far, it's always in business as far as data reliability is concerned. i would also like to say something about that, because it is also raised again and again. rest assured that we only use data from member states and the commission for our audits that we are personally convinced are reliable. all other data which we have doubts about are not included, but are collected by us. i can tell mr marias that the report on the ngos is in the final stages and will be coming soon. i hope you can learn something from this. mrs maletić has quite rightly raised the issue of the frequent lack or insufficiency of technical support. we have already made a report on the jaspers programmes some time ago and we have made some critical remarks on how this can be improved. you see, the court of auditors is trying to keep you all up to date so that we can improve our work as a whole. our criticism is not meant to bring something down, but to improve the situation, to put a finger in the wound, but in the sense of healing, not in the sense of breaking it.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the work it has done. the annual report drawn up by the court of auditors is a very important document for the european parliament, since it facilitates our work and provides many elements for assessing the aspects of european union expenditure and identifying problems to be solved. the 2017 annual report noted some improvements compared to previous years, firstly the fact that, in general, the estimated level of error for payments made is continuously decreasing. this is a step in the right direction. there are, however, a number of critical points: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. in some areas, such as rural development, there are still significant error rates and known problems which both need to be addressed and resolved as soon as possible. i hope that measures will be taken to improve the situation in order to ensure that citizens' contributions are spent properly.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after long negotiations we are finally discussing today the adoption of the regulation on the import of cultural goods. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the hard work they have put in over the past few months. some studies indicate that illicit trade in works of art is second only to that in weapons and drugs. the images of the destruction of the palmyra site by isis are still vivid in our eyes, but to speak of destruction is inaccurate. it was a real dismantling: the most valuable artifacts were stolen and sold in the european marketplace. after depriving the syrian people of their history and culture, european buyers have helped directly fund a terrorist organization. the illegal trafficking of works of art is a crime against humanity because it robs us of our common artistic heritage and our history, but it also threatens the security of european citizens by helping to finance terrorist activities. not only that: the illegal trade in art, by encouraging tax evasion and money laundering, threatens our social model. the new regulation will therefore contribute to this triple battle by imposing transparency and greater controls. it was not an easy task. while we all share the urgency of action, we have had difficulty in striking the right balance between the need to curb this illicit trade and the objective of avoiding unnecessary red tape for private operators and customs. we have therefore introduced facilities for small and mediumsized enterprises, an electronic registration system which can facilitate procedures and value thresholds which will allow for more targeted application, imposing controls only on the most valuable goods. moreover, starting with the 1970 unesco convention, the text we are proposing will be more consistent with international conventions and union regulations. applying the same annex to the export regulation and drawing on the experience of customs officials and art markets will make implementation easier. the final text is balanced and the very large majority who supported it proves this. the european union will have a state-of-the-art instrument to combat illegal trafficking without hampering legitimate trade, a source of jobs and growth. after approval we will have to ensure that the application is as uniform as possible. we cannot allow internal competition between european ports to create free zones. we must fight internal fraud, such as that perpetrated by the uk authorities on the eu budget since 2011: that is why we are going to introduce a system of due diligence, i.e. a list of documents which are the same for everyone and which the customs authorities will be obliged to require. i would remind our british friends who are worried about the effects of the regulation on the london art market after brexit that you cannot enjoy the benefits of a community without being part of it and if you want to avoid double checks you have to be part of the single market. once again, european trade policy is presented as an alternative to both protectionism and unbridled liberalism. a strategy based on our values: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. with tomorrow's vote we will add to european trade policy another element of sustainability, another brick to make our common home more worthy of the men and women who live in it, another effort to make globalisation a more equitable and humane process. this is the europe we want, a europe which protects without being closed in on itself.
i am speaking as the shadow rapporteur for the gue/ngl group on behalf of the inta committee. already at the joint work stage of the two inta/imco committees i welcomed the european commission's proposal to regulate the importation of cultural goods by the union, with the aim of preventing and blocking the illicit trade in works of art. i would also like to stress the need for such regulation when we vote in plenary. i think the text has been improved by the work of the two committees: the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of taxation, which is to be applied to all the goods and services produced by the community. we also agreed to simplify the procedures, moving from the dual licence procedure to a single licence procedure. a website will be set up if the commission, as i hope, wishes to incorporate parliament's position so that information searches can be made easily accessible. i would just like to add a political and cultural assessment. access to works of art is one of the forms of citizenship construction. it is the duty of these institutions, and of the european institutions, to make this access available to all and to prevent the arts from becoming contraband goods, especially in those countries which are suffering from conflict situations.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importation of artefacts and works of art into europe is a very delicate process because without controls, counterfeit goods, stolen goods or even items sold to finance terrorist organisations can be imported. while each country used to apply different rules, this regulation will establish a standardised system of identification, give customs authorities the appropriate tools to detect and stop fraud and illegal products, and require the same checks and training throughout the union. we also want to ensure that the small businesses operating in the art market are given adequate assistance so that they can continue their honest work without being burdened by bureaucracy. with this regulation we hope to put an end to the black market in art. i thank the rapporteurs for this and assure them of my support and that of my delegation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you know that the illicit trade in cultural goods has been a feature of the history of all conflicts. today more than ever, this trade is a source of funding for criminal organizations, terrorism and armed groups, as the war in syria has unfortunately shown. this measure is a further part of a strategy that the commission and this parliament have put into place in this parliament on the traceability of goods entering the european union, starting with the measure we have taken on minerals from conflict zones. only through specific customs procedures, harmonized at european level, and effective coordination between the competent authorities will we be able to prevent the entry of illicit cultural goods into our single market and, not least, to protect the cultural heritage of the third countries from which they come. finally, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs alessia mosca, and the rapporteur for my committee and my group, mr kohn, for their work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural heritage of a country, in particular its archaeological findings, its works of art and its oldest objects, represents the roots, the historical memory and the identity of a people. the european parliament, by adopting the regulation on the importation of cultural goods into the eu, is giving substance to these words, adopting the line taken by the cult committee. the european union has a duty to combat the illegal import of cultural property and to establish harmonised rules to protect and safeguard not only its own cultural property but also cultural property from third countries, particularly those in conflict. moreover, cultural property is often stolen and smuggled to finance terrorism, but also for the purpose of recycling and circumvention. by substantially amending the commission proposal, which proposed a minimum age of 250 years to define a cultural object falling within the scope of this regulation, we have lowered the age limit to 100 years, thus aligning ourselves with the main international conventions (unidroit, unesco, hague convention) and our existing regulation on the export of cultural objects. it is precisely because cultural goods are not just any commodity that we have introduced the need to establish a simplified electronic procedure and a set of rules and documents to prove the legality of their importation into europe. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i repeat what my distinguished speakers have said, and what mr polchak and mrs sjödrö have said. i welcome and support this proposal for a regulation, which, during its discussion in the committees, in the imco committee, of which i am also a member, has also brought forward certain amendments which i believe are useful for practical purposes. it is obvious, and the reasons have been stated here, so i will only repeat that we need a uniform regulation for the european union, as soon as we have a uniform regulation for the export of cultural goods, we need to have one rule for the import of such cultural goods. in recent years, the need for such regulation has been growing. it is not just that cultural goods are being exported illegally from somewhere and that the cultural heritage of certain countries, especially third world countries, is being damaged, but as has already been said and emphasized, the trade in cultural goods has become a way of financing various terrorist and other illegal activities in recent years. and so we need to have a stricter regulation, a clearer regulation, a regulation that will apply in all parts of the eu equally. that is why we need a uniform regulation, which is on the table. as i have said, i welcome the amendment brought about by the discussion of this regulation in the relevant committees. the imco committee has contributed to the exclusion of certain less valuable or less old works from this proposal, and i think that is certainly in the interest of the cause.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, the two co-rapporteurs have very precisely and very effectively defined the size of this market, its characteristics and, above all, the distortions which have occurred within the market over this period. i would therefore like to emphasize three points very briefly. the first is that we are finally overcoming the paradox that there was not and there is not yet (hopefully for a very short time) a european framework for regulating the import of cultural goods. his not being here is very significant, unfortunately. the second is that this lack of transparency has allowed illegal activities such as those mentioned by my colleagues. so, to ensure the same conditions for imports as for exports is a step in the right direction. the third point, which should not be underestimated, is that a legislative system such as the one we are discussing will also make it possible to combat tax evasion and avoidance, which have been so damaging to the european economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, first let me thank again both rapporteurs and all of you for your active participation in this debate. allow me to stress one more time that with the legislation we are discussing, we cover only antiques and valuable works of art from impoverished or war—torn countries and regions, which are often illegally acquired, sold and imported into the european union. in addition to damaging or destroying the archaeological sites and the artefacts themselves, illicit trade in looted cultural goods has also been identified as a source of income for organised crime groups and terrorists. before i conclude today’s discussion, please allow me to respond to some of your comments. first, regarding old books. these are not, i repeat, not, placed under import licence requirements. only a signed declaration or minimum information will be required. on the topic of value thresholds, the proposed regulation does not provide for minimum value thresholds, but provides for a high age threshold of 250 years instead. neither unesco nor unidriot nor the hague convention provide for minimum age limits. parliament’s proposal for shorter minimum age limits comes from the eu regulation on the export of cultural goods and ranges from 50 up to 200 years. that being said, the commission could consider minimum value limits as well. mr campbell, you do not need to worry about the grandfather clock. the proposed regulation’s scope does not include european cultural goods created or discarded in the territory of the member states, so no worries about that. let me also stress that the proposed regulation does not concern the cultural heritage of iraq and syria. on those we have eu measures prohibiting trade – an embargo basically. the comment related to iraq was, therefore, completely misplaced. i would also like to stress again that there is already eu legislation about the return of eu cultural goods between member states. however, the directive in question does not have retroactive effect and could not be used for the return of looted art during the second world war. in this particular case, this would be a matter of negotiation between two member states and can take place anytime. a common eu-level approach based on everything that we have heard so far is necessary to ensure that imports of cultural goods are subject to uniform controls along the eu’s external borders. the commission proposal is a follow—up to other eu initiatives aimed at strengthening the fight against terrorism financing, indeed precisely to prevent the import and storage in the eu of cultural goods that have been removed from a third country illegally and thereby combat trafficking in cultural goods, deprive criminals, terrorists and other warring factions of a source of income, and protect cultural heritage. from what i have heard today in the debate, i can say that the commission welcomes most elements of parliament’s position, which will be put to the vote in the plenary tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members for the interesting debate which has shown the broad support for the proposal put forward. of course, everything can be improved, but as has been pointed out by colleagues on several occasions in the debate, we have tried to introduce an innovative instrument which incorporates methods of collecting and exchanging information, which can be a good practice, and this without burdening small and mediumsized enterprises, ensuring fair trade but above all ensuring the protection of the cultural heritage of different peoples, which is the root of the identity and cohesion of societies. i am sorry that some of my colleagues are talking about the neurosis of terrorism, but we would like it to be a neurosis. we believe that it is our duty to restrict the forms of financing and that this is an effective way of preventing the spread of these organizations. we are therefore confident that a compromise text can be reached soon in the council and that the european union can soon be equipped with this important instrument.
in writing. trafficking in cultural property from illicit archaeological excavations to the theft of works in war-torn territories is a major criminal trade (and a source of terrorist financing), but also a serious threat to the world's cultural heritage. finally, this regulation introduces a series of measures to prevent the illicit import into the eu of cultural goods illegally exported or stolen from third countries, first by strengthening customs controls at borders and then by requiring importers to prove the lawful origin of the imported cultural goods, i.e. the legality of the export from the country of origin or export. the regulation also provides for technical and financial assistance to smes operating in the art market to ensure the effective implementation of the regulation, as well as measures for electronic cooperation between the member states and their customs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in cultural goods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the agreement reached on the regulation on medicated feedingstuffs, for which i would like to thank my colleague, mrs clara eugenia aguilera garcía, for her excellent work, will ensure greater competitiveness and innovation in the agri-food sector, strengthening the european union's fight against antimicrobial resistance. this is a decisive step forward which will lead our farmers to be even more at the forefront of animal health and welfare. sustainable livestock production, with healthy animals cared for in a healthy environment, has always been a priority for european agriculture in the interests of 500 million consumers. the high standards of food safety protection, safeguarding and surveillance are among the most ambitious in the world. we must be proud of the achievements of these years, but at the same time we must avoid that compliance with these measures becomes a competitive disadvantage for european farmers and livestock farmers compared with their global competitors. we must continue to work to ensure that all our trading partners are reciprocal and respect our production standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of road tolls is particularly sensitive because of its implications for both the environment and the safety of infrastructure. we have supported the principles of 'user pays' and 'polluter pays' in the text, since it is right that the costs borne by users depend on the actual use of a given road section and that there should be uniform conditions in the various european countries. at the same time, however, it is important that the tolls collected are reinvested in the maintenance of roads, tunnels, bridges and viaducts, especially in the light of the recent sad events in italy. we must not forget that the purpose of the toll is to recover the costs of investments made and to support those for the maintenance, modernisation, innovation, sustainability and management of infrastructure. we will support the objective of greater environmental protection and reduction of road congestion in future negotiations with the council. we will fight to prevent tolls from being a source of wealth for private individuals, and therefore for dealers, who pursue the logic of profit alone, forgetting the importance of road user safety and the environment, leading to the paradox of increasing costs in the absence of concrete benefits for citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have yet another opportunity to discuss this subject, which, among the many issues affecting the economic development of our continent, is so important and so transversal that it forces us to adopt ever more solid and ever more european political positions. without effective and efficient transport there is no possibility of real development and sustainable development, and let us not forget that development, and therefore transport, is not only sustainable if it respects the rules of environmental protection, which we want to be respected, but is also sustainable if it is economically and over time. so, from the point of view of the game we are discussing today, the criteria introduced and maintained in the report, namely 'user pays' and 'polluter pays', are criteria which we fully share. i believe - and the experience of my country, italy, clearly demonstrates - that the introduction of the distance tolling criterion is sufficiently reliable to meet these pillars. it is also true that there are many other elements which have a positive impact on respect for and protection of the environment, but they must not be added to this criterion of distance, which is more than sufficient. otherwise, the burden on transport users would become such that transport would no longer be a resource for development but a cost that citizens would rightly reject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner, and also the rapporteur, for the excellent proposal, which i of course support, because i think that the emphasis is really on pollution, on traffic congestion, on all the elements which unfortunately can and do affect people's health, if not even their death. so we finally have a concrete proposal, let's move on to the polluter pays principle and the user pays principle and then to an aspect which is distance and no longer time. i am also in favour of a delay for member states to 2026 for cars and i stress the importance of not harming commuters, because we already have the heavy effect of urbanisation and therefore we have to safeguard the more remote areas, as well as ensuring that this directive is not affected by allowing people to go on secondary roads, so the congestion tax is also fine.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. transportation is a bit like the blood and veins in our bodies. traffic is like blood, and the transport infrastructure is like veins. of course, the economy needs transport. mobility is one of the great achievements of our time. but just like in our bodies, it can lead to high blood pressure, and eventually, it can lead to heart attack. i live on a highway that's very close to the infarct, the brenner highway. there are 2.2 million trucks that go over the road every year, and that's through a very sensitive area. a heart attack like that won't do anyone any good. it does not benefit the road, the road users who get stuck in traffic jams, and certainly not the people on the roads who endure all the dirt. that is why we need a sustainable transport policy. this report is indeed moving in the right direction. it recognises that traffic must also be managed, that traffic generates infrastructure costs and that traffic generates external costs. these external costs are particularly high in sensitive areas such as mountainous areas. the approach taken in this report is therefore correct, namely that the inclusion of these external costs in mountain areas must be higher. that is why i am convinced that we should approve this report. i shall be very happy to do so myself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, directive 1999/62/ec (the so-called eurovignette directive) provides a detailed legal framework for the collection of tolls on heavy goods vehicles using certain roads. while i broadly share the objective of making toll systems more transparent, intensifying monitoring of the way the revenue is used and also supporting the intention to promote the gradual harmonisation of motor vehicle taxes and the establishment of fair mechanisms for charging infrastructure, there are some aspects to which i would like to draw attention. in italy the economic dimension of road freight transport is extremely important and therefore the introduction of forms of taxation has a negative impact on the competitiveness of made in italy. in particular, the introduction of the mountain pass surcharges is massively applied in italy, causing distortions of competition in the context of the european single market. the euro-vignette, which is designed to generate resources and protect the environment, must not be turned into a mere tax revenue for the countries of central europe to the detriment of the exporting countries on the periphery of the european union. i support the rapporteur's proposal on the use of the revenue to meet the investment needs and to promote the maintenance and technological development of the road sector. finally, i would like to express my opposition to the congestion charge.
ms. notis, you hold the olympic record for catching the eye. (end of the 'catch the eye' procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018.
the agenda includes the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/33/ec on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2017) 0653 - c8-0393/2017 - 2017/0291 (cod)) (a8-0321/2018).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that public procurement has not stimulated the spread of clean vehicles and this is precisely the reason that has pushed us, of course, that has pushed the commission and has pushed the european parliament to work on and update this important directive, which represented an opportunity to change things. unfortunately, however, from our point of view, for the five star movement, we are wasting it. linking the clean vehicle definition to dirty fuels such as oil and natural gas until 2030 means blocking the way for the demand-side transformation of the market, in particular of buses, which are now mainly powered by diesel, in fact also disregarding what were the recommendations of the emis commission, the commission that investigated the dieselgate scandal, which urged public authorities to buy zero-emission vehicles. in our view, this updated text makes the procurement procedures even more difficult for the authorities of the member states who will have to buy clean vehicles. the definition of a clean vehicle, as it is today in this text, has in fact not allowed us to insist on an operation, retrofitting, which is an operation, from our point of view, fundamental to updating, improving and really having vehicles that are clean on the roads. we have unfortunately had to remove this reference. we have underestimated the virtuous example of cities such as rome and barcelona, which will be equipped exclusively with electric buses from 2025, and we have underestimated the potential of our companies, which are world leaders in the supply of components for electrification. despite the inclusion of sub-targets for zero-emission vehicles, the amended directive will not help to bridge the gap between europe and china, where there are already 380 000 electric buses on the road today, compared to the few thousand in europe, and will therefore have a limited role in combating the air pollution that affects our cities.
commission. – mr president, i am taking this question on behalf of my colleague, commissioner navracsics, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening. on behalf of the commission i would like to thank ms kammerevert for tabling this oral question at a time when the commission and council are discussing the commission’s proposal for a council recommendation on promoting the automatic mutual recognition of higher education and upper secondary education diplomas, and the outcomes of learning periods abroad. the question is a strong sign of support for this important topic in the parliament, and i would like to thank you for that. indeed, automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and study periods abroad is key for ensuring the free movement of learners across europe. it is a key element in creating a european education area, where learning, studying and carrying out research are unimpeded by borders. learning mobility fosters competences and experiences help people to participate more effectively in society and in the labour market. it fosters labour mobility, contributing to individual and economic resilience. the recent mid-term evaluation of the erasmus+ programme demonstrates that mobility has a positive impact on learners’ confidence, independence and transition to employment. when compared to their non-mobile peers, erasmus students are more entrepreneurial, have better language skills and are more likely to get a job. however, in order to make learning mobility a reality, it is crucial that learners have the confidence that their qualifications in another country would be recognised upon their return. i am therefore glad that from next month, member states will make a political commitment to put in place by 2025 the steps that are needed for automatic recognition of higher education and upper secondary education qualifications, and the outcomes of learning periods abroad. this political commitment will be accompanied by actions to help member states to build trust in each other’s education systems, because without trust, automatic recognition will not work. the commission will be supporting member states in this process through a series of concrete actions, such as exchanges of good practice, building synergies between eu transparency tools, and exploring the potential of digital technologies – in particular blockchain – to facilitate automatic recognition. the commission, through the erasmus+ programme, also provides funding to the national academic recognition information centres to facilitate cooperation and recognition. this year alone, eur 1 million was allocated to these projects, including digital exchange of student data, creating a digital database of school-leaving qualifications, and the recognition of qualifications held by refugees. of course, we are not starting from scratch. several member states already have systems which allow for automatic recognition of diplomas, and we can learn from them. for example, there is the benelux decision on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications; the nordic and baltic agreements to recognise higher education and school leaving qualifications; bilateral agreements, such as the one between france and italy on the recognition of school leaving qualifications; and the nordic, franco-german, austrian and italian arrangements to recognise mobility periods during secondary education. the commission is convinced that its vision for a european education area and the many initiatives that stem from it will enable member states to make progress quickly while inspiring the non-eu member states in wider european higher education. this impetus is important, because after 30 years of cooperation through both the lisbon recognition convention and the erasmus programme, learners still face avoidable problems with the recognition of their diplomas and study periods abroad. this is not acceptable. in conclusion, let me underline that improving learning mobility and the exchange of ideas have a positive impact on education systems throughout europe, and they contribute to the creation of a dynamic, innovative education community. there is no evidence that automatic recognition will cause a brain drain or weaken member states’ education systems. on the contrary, it will ensure that learners can study abroad with the confidence that their learning outcomes and their qualifications will be recognised. this will encourage – and should encourage – more learners to participate and return after their time abroad, and more academic and education institutes can support mobility and automatic recognition. i wish to thank again ms kammerevert for raising this question, and i look forward to hearing the views of the members.
the s&d group believes that the effective automatic mutual recognition of secondary education diplomas is a precondition without which we cannot achieve a genuine citizens' europe and, more specifically, a genuine european education area by 2025. this is a political priority for the cult committee and for the whole of parliament, which is the voice of the citizens' demands, and on which i hope that the education, youth, culture and sport council on 6 november will make concrete commitments. the effective implementation of the principle of free movement of persons, whether students or workers, and of freedom of establishment also requires the removal of all obstacles which, in fact, do not allow or facilitate the possibility of working, especially for young people, in one member state by means of the recognition of a diploma obtained in another state. all the surveys confirm this worrying reality. to date, some 65% of europeans with a degree have difficulty in having their degree recognised outside their own country, and 59% of those who study for a period in an institution in an eu country other than their own have difficulty in having their credits recognised when they return to their own country. progress has been made, but only through bilateral agreements between some countries, which are important benchmarks for the automatic recognition of diplomas throughout the eu. as the european union we must therefore open a new path for the member states, overcoming resistance and reticence, to recognize the value of diplomas issued by other eu member states, if necessary by defining integrations in the study programmes to achieve substantially homogeneous levels of preparation for the purposes, for example, of declarations of comparability of upper secondary school diplomas. all this is to create, finally, a genuine european education area which allows for a high degree of mobility of students, teachers and workers, taking due account of the objective needs of people with disabilities or disadvantaged people, including refugees and migrants.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, international trade is not only a key factor in economic development and cooperation between countries, but also has a fundamental influence on peace, sustainable growth, employment, the eradication of poverty and human rights. however, the benefits of globalisation are not equally distributed across regions and within society. the multilateral world economic order, with the wto at its core, is struggling to integrate the profound changes of the last decades, from the new role of china and the united states to the automation and digitization of the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector. i share the call for a european union trade strategy for smes, in order to integrate them into international value chains and overcome specific trade barriers such as non-tariff barriers. effective trade defence and consumer protection instruments are needed. i therefore call on the commission to continue to develop safe methods to take full account of these dimensions, including the social and environmental standards applicable in exporting countries.
in writing. none of the eu's financial interest protection instruments can be applied to third countries, so an effective way to protect european citizens' money must be found. the resolution therefore attempts to introduce elements which will help to remedy the situation. the agreements with third countries on this matter and the inclusion of specific clauses in the international agreements which may be affected are of course very important. equally important, however, is the exchange of data and information in order to detect fraudulent transfer of assets to third countries. the aim in this respect must also be to create a central database which collects the history and traces the routes most frequently used by fraudsters.
i have the honour to announce that the conference of presidents of political groups has just decided to award the 2018 sakharov prize to oleg sentsov. (applause) the prize was awarded for his courage and determination. ukrainian filmmaker oleg sentsov has become a symbol of the struggle for the release of political prisoners in russia and around the world. by awarding him the prize, the european parliament expresses its solidarity with him and his cause. we demand that oleg sentsov, arrested in 2014 and sentenced to 20 years in prison, be immediately released. (applause) his release is also urgent because of the serious health condition he is suffering as a result of a long hunger strike. her struggle, waged at the risk of her own life, reminds us that it is our duty to defend respect for human rights everywhere in the world and under all circumstances. the sakharov prize is one of the most symbolic moments in the history of our parliament. to be always at the forefront of defending and promoting freedom, democracy and human rights, within and beyond our borders. of course, the other two finalists on the shortlist who have been endorsed by the conference of presidents will also be invited to the ceremony.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take a decision and to vote yes to the mandate to start the trilogues on this important dossier. we have been discussing this for over ten years and two years ago this parliament adopted the resolution by mairead mcguinness which asked the commission to propose exactly this legislation: i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we voted with over 90% in favour. but today we are faced once again with yet another request for a delay from those who do not want this directive. so let's not get fooled, fellas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we can show that the european union can really answer the questions of our farmers, our cooperatives, our ngos, but above all of 500 million european consumers. we must not fall into the trap of lobbyists who want to block the work. we want to stop and we must stop unfair practices. remember, colleagues, the best is often the enemy of the good. the time is now, let's vote yes!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be voting in favour of the report on cultural goods. we consider it a very positive step that there is a measure, which is being called for by the european parliament, to combat the illicit trafficking of cultural property. we also consider it a positive step forward to remove the 250-year limit and to have the licensing system computerized and managed through a website. we think it's time to take it one step further: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's cultural heritage. we have always fought for a policy of investment, of protection of cultural heritage, of preservation of cultural heritage, which guarantees its full use.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally voted in favour of this resolution, which i strongly wanted and proposed to the european parliament. i welcome the adoption of the resolution itself, not without emotion. i think it is a relevant fact that the voices that have contributed to the drafting of this text are women's voices. i thank the two colleagues with whom i wrote the first draft of the joint motion for a resolution, three feminists who spoke out against fascism, to testify to the fact that feminism is the strongest antidote to all forms of fascism, patriarchy and racism. i think that the european parliament can sing "hello, bellas" today. it is a good morning for the european parliament and i hope it will be a wake-up call for europe, a wake-up call for the italian government, where there are political forces that go to dinner with casa pound and others that consider anti-fascism to be something out of date. i dedicate the adoption of this resolution to all the comrades who have been victims of fascist violence in bari and throughout italy.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 october 2018.
ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of this sitting i would like to recall the centenary of the armistice which ended the first world war in november 1918. on saturday and sunday i attended, on behalf of all of you, the commemoration ceremonies that were held in paris, in the presence of world leaders. history is a great teacher, but we don't always learn from it. it is therefore the duty of each of us to keep alive the memory of the millions who died in the great war. it is our duty to preserve the historical memory of those events, reminding present and future generations that the great tragedy in which europe committed suicide was the result of clashes, selfishness and opposition between peoples. twenty years later, unfortunately, nationalism once again led europeans to fight among themselves. today, a hundred years after the end of the first world war, we can see that the friendship and cooperation on which the european union is founded make war between states unthinkable, but it is hard to see how this state of affairs can be considered irreversible. the european project unites nations and guarantees peace, freedom and prosperity. it allows us to solve our problems through political confrontation and not on the battlefields. we are defending this project and these ideals, not only for those who will come after us, but also to pay tribute to the 17 million dead of the first world war, whose sacrifice cannot have been in vain. finally, i would like to greet with affection and pride the many european nations born of this conflict, which this year celebrate their centenary, among them poland, romania, latvia, lithuania and estonia. i would also like to express our condolences to the families of the dozens of victims of the weather in italy. in many regions, particularly in valle d'aosta, veneto, trentino, liguria, lazio, campania and sicily, the weather conditions have caused the loss of many lives and caused enormous damage to the economy by devastating many territories. the european union stands ready to help the affected populations through the european solidarity fund for emergencies. i thank the european commission for making civil protection available. i would also point out that thanks to the commitment of the european parliament, it is possible to process aid applications more quickly and to advance part of the funds requested. the fact that many countries in the european union are affected by devastating weather events is a wake-up call to us all. there is no denying that these extreme weather events are the consequences of the larger problem of climate change. we must therefore redouble our efforts to combat it. the cop 24 meeting in katowice, poland, in december offers us the opportunity to reaffirm europe's leadership in the fight against greenhouse gases and harmful emissions. i also welcome the ruling by the supreme court of pakistan that asia bibi was innocent and could be reunited with her family after eight years in prison. we are now awaiting the conclusion of the judicial process and the current review and we are confident that his acquittal will be definitively confirmed. i am in contact with jan fige and the pakistani authorities to offer our support to the efforts to secure the freedom and safety of asia bibi and her loved ones. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to inform the house that on wednesday i will be signing, together with the president of the council, nine acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with rule 78 of parliament's rules of procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 8 november 2018. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
we shall talk about this in a moment, but i think the political groups agree with you. before we go on to these matters, however, mr blanco lópez has asked for the floor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to rule 184a and articles 1, 2 and 3 of the code of conduct for members, who cannot benefit from their role, either economically or politically. i am addressing myself to you, mr president, who have been appearing every day in the last few months on all the italian television news channels, making continuous public statements against the actions of the italian government. this can't be done. i urge you to play your role regularly this is important because you cannot campaign since you have an institutional role. this is crucial. if you want to campaign, then resign, get off that platform and campaign like all the other members of this house.
i would remind you, mr pedicini, that the president of parliament is a member like any other. i am elected in my constituency and therefore i am free to speak without ever infringing on my role as a member of parliament. i have always been and the representatives of your group can also attest to this impartial in carrying out my work. i would add that i am proud to be a journalist and i do not share the shameful statements and insults that have been made to journalists by representatives of the italian government. i am defending freedom of the press throughout europe. i do so, mr pedicini, as president of the parliament. i repeat, i am proud to be a journalist and i do not accept that journalists are called prostitutes, as authoritative representatives of your party and the government you defend have done. that's my answer. ask for my resignation then. (applause) i would like to thank there is no reply, mr pedicini. there's no need to replicate. we now come to the amendments to the agenda. wednesday following the consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for amending the final draft agenda, as requested by mr karim. the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the case of asia bibi and the situation of religious minorities in pakistan is postponed to a later part-session, precisely to avoid any delay or problem for the safety of asia bibi and her family as a result of our debate. i thought that was mr. karim's request, too. (parliament approved the request) the ecr group asked for the council and commission statements on albania, in particular the case of the violation of the rights of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus and the murder of konstantinos katsifas, to be added as the fourth item on the agenda. the debate will have to be concluded by the tabling of a resolution to be put to the vote on thursday. i give the floor to mr marias to make the request on behalf of the ecr group.
mr marias, are you asking for a resolution in addition to the debate?
the ecr group therefore proposes that a statement by the council and the commission on albania, in particular the case of the violation of the rights of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus and the murder of konstantinos katsifas, be added as the fourth item on monday's agenda, with a motion for a resolution to be tabled for a vote on thursday. (parliament rejected the request for an amendment) tuesday and thursday no changes are proposed. (the order of business is as follows)
for an opinion of the committee on petitions . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of petitions by european citizens have helped to update the all-important directive on the promotion of renewable energy and i, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions, am honoured to have been able to speak for them. the petitions have highlighted gaps and criticisms, including systematic ones, both in the existing legal framework and in its practical application in the member states, as in particular in the case of retroactive changes to support schemes. this new directive strictly prohibits this practice, precisely to avoid that those who intend to invest in renewable energies today have to fear that their investment may be jeopardized precisely by retroactive rules that compromise the economic stability of the projects. the commission has also proposed that the member states publish a long-term plan for support mechanisms covering a period of at least five years, in order to improve the clarity and security of investment in the sector. the committee on petitions was a little more ambitious, however, with regard to the eu renewable energy target. we were asking for 35%, and yet the 32% achieved in the final agreement is a very good step forward compared to the european commission's initial proposal, especially as it is protected by an upward revision to 2023. europe is finally showing itself to be close to its citizens when it writes rules like this on renewable energy, because promoting the use and self-consumption of renewable energy means increasing the degree of democracy in our society, it means taking concrete action to protect the planet from global warming, it means creating jobs in the green economy, it means tackling the problem of energy poverty which still affects 50 million people throughout the european union today, and it means above all working concretely to try to leave a future for future generations, because unfortunately up to now this europe has been going in the opposite direction. so we're moving forward with the energy revolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we started this process by revising european energy legislation at the beginning of the legislature. the first commission proposal is even dated 28 may 2014. so this work has marked the work of myself and all my colleagues over the years. i must say, as a citizen who has entered the institutions, that i am particularly proud to have worked together with fantastic colleagues, who have certainly led to results that i myself could never have imagined. i dreamed that the rights of producers and consumers of renewable energy would finally be guaranteed, that europe would have the european right to set up energy communities. that was a dream i had as a citizen, and here in this house, together with my colleagues, i found people who wanted the same thing and we succeeded in making it european law. this should be the europe of the future, we are writing it here, because it is finally focusing on something real: energy, matter, the circular economy. the european union was born as the coal and steel community and we are in a way going back to the beginning, focusing on energy, no longer on coal but on a new form of energy and a new form of material management that is no longer that of the mere production of steel and manufactured goods. this should be the europe of the future. there is a lot of talk about sovereignty, about nationalism. so i dream of a sovereign european union, not broken up into individual states, where everyone wants to do what they want, because if we are to tackle climate change and resource depletion we must build a strong europe. i have seen in the negotiations that all the advantages, let us say the ambitious things that we in parliament had written, also supported by the commission, were being obstructed by the wishes and the particular interests of some states. so what does sovereignty mean? it means that we must project ourselves towards a different europe to combat climate change and resource depletion, and together we can do it. this is our future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are more than 20 years away from the first major phase of liberalisation of the european gas and electricity markets. however, the european energy market is still not able to provide fair access, high and uniform standards of consumer protection, adequate levels of cooperation and interconnection. energy does not flow freely everywhere and at all times, and national precautions on the climate roadmap persist, although they differ from state to state. the terms of the council agreement on these three issues - efficiency, renewables and governance - are therefore welcome, because they detail in a persuasive manner and with sufficiently ambitious european and national targets an important part of the new market structure that the union urgently needs. i hope that this agreement will be a good omen for the current negotiations on market design, the agency for european regulatory cooperation and risk management preparedness.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of an energy union based on an ambitious climate policy is to provide european consumers with secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy. the new energy union governance regulation will enable europe to become a world leader in renewable energy, putting energy efficiency first and offering fair treatment to consumers. the compromise reached with the council set important objectives, although far below parliament's expectations. the targets of 32% renewable energy in the eu's energy mix and 32.5% energy savings by 2030 will have to be achieved through coordinated action at european, macro-regional, regional, national and local levels. the ultimate goal of a fully functional and resilient energy union is to transform the european union into a leading region for innovation, investment, growth and a credible example of pursuing high ambition in climate change mitigation policy.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms tomašić, the shadow rapporteurs and their teams, as well as the committee on fisheries, for the long work on this important proposal for the mediterranean. this is a proposal for a first eu multiannual plan in the mediterranean. having a meaningful plan in place is crucial, given the overall dramatic state of the stocks in the area, with around 85% of the assessed stocks being over—exploited. in the adriatic, the picture emerging from the most recent scientific assessments on small pelagics is crystal clear and extremely worrying. the fishing mortality is too high for both sardine and anchovy, and the spawning biomass is at very low levels. while there are slight signs of improvement for sardine, anchovy has a high probability of collapse within one to three years unless drastic action is taken. i want to be very clear: we need to avoid a collapse of anchovy as we had in the past in the bay of biscay. we must act now and not allow a new case of collapse in eu waters. such a collapse is not only about the fish in the sea, but also about the jobs on land. to be precise, the sector employs 1330 direct jobs in croatia, around 1000 in italy, and more in slovenia. catches are worth around eur 85 million per year. this excludes the secondary sector, with 570 processing enterprises with at least 6700 employees on its own and worth eur 150 million. this is why i have put forward an ambitious and serious proposal, capable of effectively guaranteeing the long—term viability of these jobs and the benefits for eu citizens. i wish to be absolutely clear on this point: without the steps taken in the commission’s proposals, it is only a matter of one to three years before the stock will fail and, in doing so, we would have most certainly failed the industry and eu citizens. this multiannual plan was designed to allow these stocks to recover. unfortunately, the majority of amendments voted by the committee on fisheries are of serious concern and very problematic for the commission. they are not in line with the basic principles and objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp); they deviate massively from the approach agreed in other multiannual plans that are already adopted, like the north sea and baltic; and they derogate from key legislation, such as the mediterranean regulation, the current european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) and the control regulation. most importantly, some amendments would remove entirely the obligation to reach fmsy or any target with a clear timeline, would eliminate the need to take safeguard measures if certain biomass levels are not reached, and would minimise remedial actions. amendment 48 also dilutes the landing obligation, which is a central element of the cfp reform. moreover, amendments completely ignored the scientific advice according to which anchovy and sardines should be managed separately and removed the possibility of setting fishing opportunities on the basis of fmsy. finally, the report, as adopted in committee, introduces provisions such as a 2% reduction of the combined catch level of 2014 over the next four years. this is freezing the catch levels at their recent peak, which would neither prevent the collapse of anchovy nor bring the stocks close to fmsy. such amendments are much less ambitious than what has already been agreed with third countries in the multilateral context of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), meaning the deductions of 5% per year in the next three years. all this sends the wrong message to our partners around the mediterranean – in particular, after all the efforts deployed into garnering their support for serious actions in favour of sustainable fisheries in both the medfish4ever declaration and the gfcm. it is also essential to avoid double standards, whereby northern european member states have to comply with fmsy and clear timelines, while southern member states have targets not in line with fmsy and no set timelines. being the first mediterranean multiannual plan, this would set a bad precedent. therefore, i have to be very clear that these texts are not acceptable for the commission. keeping them would result in a make—believe multiannual plan, which would be nothing more than a set of transitional measures that essentially will allow to maintain current excessive overfishing. this is not enough, and this is not what we all promised european citizens when we adopted the current cfp. finally, to end on a positive note, there were a number of sensible amendments in the committee on fisheries which had been proposed to address some of the criticisms from the sector on the introduction of tax. these concerned notably the introduction of an msy biomass escapement strategy. in the end, they were not approved by the committee on fisheries but have been re—tabled for tomorrow’s plenary vote. if adopted tomorrow, the commission is ready to examine these amendments in the light of scientific advice. we count on your support to take a responsible decision that will allow us to live up to the basic principles and commitments of our cfp and to the standards of other multiannual action plans. only if we deliver on our joint commitments can we ensure the recovery of the stocks, and thus the profitability of the fleet and livelihood of the coastal communities which depend on them in the mid— and long—term.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, your presentation is embarrassing. i have no other words to describe it, because you know very well that you have put forward a proposal which, if you had had the courage, you would have had to withdraw and then put forward another strategy, that of escapement, which instead, cunningly - there are forwarded e-mails to prove it - was passed by the commission as an amendment for a colleague of ours. this is an absolutely undemocratic act and an abuse of parliament's prerogatives, for which the commission should apologise. i think that the commission should apologize, because we could also accept the escape strategy if we could amend and improve it and not take it as an amendment by a colleague, rather than a rethink by the commission. that said, the commission's political will to kill fisheries in favour of aquaculture is clear, which could also be a strategy, but i do not know whether you also want the mad fish after the mad cow. i would like to be able to take fish that is raised and lived in the sea and that is nutritionally positive and good for my citizens, starting with the children to whom i do not want to give fish that is raised in who knows where and how. did you ever get salmon, especially a few years ago, that when you put it in the oven, all the white foam came out because suddenly the salmon was so fat, coming from your farms, that it was inedible. i used to love salmon, and i don't eat it anymore. what has come out of the committee on fisheries is a balanced text, a very good summary and also in line with the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. you always talk about supranational things, you conform to supranational bodies, you do not go against supranational bodies. italian fisheries have already suffered an incredible decline, more than halving since 2000. of course, the fisheries have declined, but there are ecosurveys telling us that the stocks are much better than your models say. you want to believe in reality, or reality needs your theoretical models to be true. shame on you!
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the report and that it is very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. as a shadow rapporteur, i shared the multiannual plan for the adriatic sea as a tool for the management of marine biological resources, with the aim of restoring stocks and restoring the sustainability of the sector. the management measures proposed by the rapporteur, mr tomašić, are insufficient to ensure the survival of small pelagic stocks and the absence of decisive action could lead to the collapse of stocks in a very short time. the data are clear and in line with those of the commission's scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries. in recent years, there has also been a sharp reduction in the average size of the catch. the rapporteur's proposal would only benefit certain fishing vessels which have direct agreements with large companies active in intensive industrial fishing. the majority of small-scale fishermen in italy would need regulations that would guarantee jobs for all, even in the years to come. i have tabled amendments to the biomass escapement strategy which i believe could be a valid compromise to protect sufficient biomass to ensure the sustainability and reproduction of stocks, but also flexibility in the event of abundant harvests. the amendments call for the adoption of the proposal by the rapporteur, mr tomašić, for the next three years, a 4% reduction in catches, and for a switch to the biomass escapement strategy from 2023 onwards if stocks are not safe. this strategy is also shared by the most representative italian fisheries associations, such as federpesca and coldiretti impresa pesca. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments on the biomass escapement strategy to ensure that small pelagic fish will continue to be a source of income for our fishermen in the future.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in two minutes i would have had a hard time listing all the points of concern i have about this plan, which has been referred to the committee on fisheries, but fortunately many of them have been mentioned by commissioner vella. i have been in this european parliament for four and a half years and i have been hearing in the committee on fisheries for four and a half years about the disastrous situation in the mediterranean, about the 85% of species that are overexploited, about a sector in serious difficulty. however, now that the multiannual plans are being introduced, which are one of the principal instruments of the cfp, we see how quickly they are being diluted, forgotten, ruined, reduced to something that has no meaning, no value, no effectiveness. the initial proposal for the adriatic plan was for quotas. in the mediterranean, quotas are not a matter of discussion, they are taboo and they are something that cannot even be taken into consideration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. now we have a plan in our hands that we've never seen in the other multi-year plans that we've done. it is not a multiannual programme because it lasts only three years. the concept of maximum sustainable yield has disappeared and above all it does not listen to the concerns of science or rather chooses which science to listen to. i would remind mrs gardini that the ecosurveys she mentioned are made on demersals, whereas this is a plan for pelagic fish. these are two data that cannot be put together, and a little scientific knowledge would be enough to know that. but the cstep tells us that the stocks are in serious crisis and that one of the two is likely to collapse. so we need a much more effective measure than the one we have in this plan and i hope that the alternative that you will have on the list tomorrow, namely the escape strategy, can at least be passed to enable fishermen to support themselves with this economic resource.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adriatic produces 70-80% of italian sardines and anchovies and more than 160 vessels and a thousand operators operate in the adriatic. however, in the last five years, the value of the supply chain has been lost by 50-60% due to competition. we have therefore considered management measures which take account of the real state of resources and are not based solely on precautionary approaches. in general, before adopting a management plan, an impact assessment should be carried out, both on the actual availability of fisheries resources and on the socioeconomic aspects, as also provided for by the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy, which are of particular concern to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are mainly italian. the introduction of a quota system risks bringing the whole industry to a standstill after more than 20 years of crisis. the objective of this plan is to achieve and maintain the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned, to make the fisheries sector sustainable and to provide an effective management framework. this proposal for a regulation is an attempt to oppose the commission's attempts to introduce quotas. the way we vote on it tomorrow will bring relative stability to the sector. any change in this strategy could disrupt the union market, open up scope for increased imports from third countries and put the fisheries sector in an unequal market position. the proposal voted on in the committee on fisheries is based on the management of fishing effort and represents the real need for the sector to be biologically, economically and socially sustainable. tomorrow we will vote with conscience.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to express, on behalf of the european commission, my most sincere condolences to the families of those who have perished in the recent floods throughout europe. quite tragically, these events have highlighted our vulnerability to both natural and man-made disasters. hence the continued need for investing on the ground in better preparedness and better prevention. eu support should help regions become more resilient and more sustainable. this is the rationale behind the cohesion policy. you know very well that under the current programming period, almost eur 8 billion have been channelled to the climate change adaptation and risk prevention. clearly, disaster risk management is a main focus of our policy. we invest in early warning systems, awareness-raising, flood-protection infrastructure, green infrastructures such as flood plains or green urban spaces. besides prevention, we work on preparedness, in particular support for equipment and vehicles or training for civil protection units. it is also important to mention the contribution of the eu’s rural development policy. support includes investments for the restoration of damaged agriculture and forestry land and production capacity, the restoration of rural infrastructure and preventive actions and risk-management tools for farmers. but building prevention and resilience is a very complex process which entails a long lasting match between public investment and the reality on the ground. this is why, following the disasters of last year, the commission adopted the so-called ‘risk eu package’, which included a screening of all relevant operational programmes. the aim here was to see whether there were any gaps in the support we provided. the good news is that the current priorities in our programmes already match very closely with the highest risk that member states have identified themselves in their national risk assessments. this is partly thanks to our funding. more generally, we offer flexibility in our programmes. this means amendments can be proposed and swiftly agreed to shift resources towards areas that are most in need. so, if changes are necessary, they can still be made under the current funding period. the commission is also supporting member states in the implementation of the floods directive and will publish by the beginning of next year, an assessment for the first flood risk management plans prepared by the member states under this directive. this mapping will allow adequate and coordinating measures to reduce flood risk. besides a long-term approach to natural disasters, there is, of course, an emergency dimension. the commission’s risk eu package, which i just mentioned, was also introduced to upgrade the eu’s emergency response, notably by revising the european union’s civil protection mechanism put in place in 2001 to provide external assistance to member states or a third country. it goes without saying that the commission stands ready to help any affected country through this mechanism. last, but not least, we have the eu solidarity fund, directly managed by my services. the european union solidarity fund is pivotal as it complements rapid-response measures helping regions and countries to restore essential infrastructure, ensure continuity of public services, assist populations and protect cultural heritage. the commission’s services are currently working hand-in-hand with the italian and austrian authorities who are considering applying for solidarity assistance after the recent floods. as always, we stand ready to help them throughout the process. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to our debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my region, in south tyrol, in trentino, and especially in belluno, which was particularly affected, it rained for days, there were floods, and wind gusts of up to 200 kilometres per hour knocked down entire forests. millions of cubic metres of wood are now lying idle and need to be worked up. in my region alone, 1.1 million cubic metres of wood are affected. this is particularly tragic because it is also a unesco world heritage site, with wounds that will be visible for decades. forests don't grow back overnight. but what is especially tragic is: people have died too: in italy, 32 people have died - including those in the south, particularly in sicily. in my region, a volunteer firefighter who was trying to help people at night has died while doing this work for his fellow men, which i consider to be particularly tragic. therefore, i think it is good that we are having this debate today, also to show our solidarity, and i share in full what you, madam commissioner, have just said. the european union is not a party to the treaty. it is true that it also serves prevention, but the people who are suffering from prevention at the moment have little advantage, serve aiuto, serve l'aiuto concreto. so we must do everything we can to open the solidarity fund. we live in italy at a time when it sometimes seems to me that the european union is responsible for everything. the european union is responsible for the country's economic difficulties, its infrastructure and its migratory flows. the european union is a very beautiful picture. so this is also an opportunity for us. it is an opportunity for italians and the italian population to understand that the european union is helping, that the european union is in solidarity, that the european union is on the side of the people at a time of difficulty, and that we must therefore take advantage of this opportunity. we must really try to respond very quickly to the request of the italian government, which has declared a state of national calamity, that there be the possibility of assistance from the european solidarity fund and that this be done very quickly.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for this debate, which we had very much requested, on the recent floods in italy, in southern europe and, unfortunately, in my own country, sicily, where in just 24 hours half the rainfall of a whole year fell and the tragedy was as great as 12 deaths and hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros of damage to infrastructure and crops. thank you for your condolences and your solidarity, which i will extend to the families of the victims of an absurd tragedy in an inferno of water, mud, neglect and indifference. you think the body of the last missing person, a young doctor on his way to work, was only recovered four days ago. in just over a decade, natural disasters have cost the european union some eur 100 billion. we are talking about one third of the entire budget that the union devotes to cohesion policies. it is clear that, in the face of massive climate change, if we want to limit the damage, we must increase prevention interventions and that cohesion policy must be the instrument to support them in addition to the solidarity fund. local and regional authorities benefiting from cohesion measures are also the first to deal with the impacts of disasters. the prevention of disasters is one of the central axes of regional development, and it is clear that cohesion must become the primary source of funding for the prevention and fight against climate change, if we consider that, according to ispra data, within a century the increase in average temperature in italy could even exceed two degrees. prevention and intervention are left to the member states of the european union. it is up to them to invest and spend on infrastructure policies, but states and regions often forget to do so or cannot support the necessary investments. so, commissioner, we really need the european union's intervention now, because the 114 billion for climate change measures, which is a discount on our budget, is no longer needed. in the face of an immense tragedy, which we witnessed in my country only ten days ago, there is a need for all the concrete solidarity, help, support, funds, compensation for those who, in addition to their lives, have lost what was their job, their daily life. it is precisely in these situations that the european union must make its presence and its usefulness felt by the citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet the commissioner, whom i am very pleased to see, because in the few minutes, the few seconds we have, i would like to concentrate on what has happened in southern europe in the past few days and i would like to concentrate in particular on one province, the mountain province par excellence: the province of belluno, the province of the dolomites, to understand each other as europeans. you see, there are events so serious that we felt the duty to act as a venetian community. thousands of volunteers have come, 100,000 hectares of forest have been destroyed, forests that have always been protected, madam commissioner. there's a model there called the rules, which have protected that extraordinary territory that is a very beautiful but very difficult territory. we made some mistakes there too. the first mistake we made was when we decided to transmit the energy through the air through wires and poles. this has led to the great disaster: and thousands and thousands of accounts deleted for days, people in a very difficult situation. and all because in years past they didn't want to spend a few extra bucks to bury those cables. i should like to thank mr de carlo, who is also mayor of a community in the province of belluno, for accompanying me and making me understand how important this is. i've already run out of time, but i'd like to conclude with three very, very important facts. you see, st. mark's basilica was totally flooded. debris and mud killed 80% of the clams grown in the venetian valleys. but above all i believe that the solidarity fund should be activated yesterday, not tomorrow. i therefore strongly urge that the solidarity fund be set up immediately for a territory so damaged by a catastrophic event.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the floods. 91% of italian municipalities are at combined risk of flooding and landslides. and even more, in view of the tragic events and the victims we have mourned over in recent weeks, it is clear that the hydrogeological restoration is the real and absolute priority for italy. it should be for the italian government, it should be for the european union, and instead we keep hearing about budgetary constraints, the fiscal compact, tap, tav, big useless and harmful projects that drain huge resources. the government continues the tradition of craxi and berlusconi with a new building permit. on the contrary, resources would be needed, first of all for those municipalities which are engaged in the detection of building abuse and which lack the essential structures for the enforcement of laws against abuse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in sicily, in casteldaccia, an entire family lost their lives because they could not complete the demolition of a building built on the banks of a river and certified as abusive for years. the damage is also multiplied by the constant thirst for profit. in the belgian province of belluno, which was destroyed by the floods at the end of october, terna s.p.a. is building overhead power lines with 60 metre-high trusses in places of community interest and landscape constraints, which are clearly at risk of flooding. those trolls should be committed. we need a new season of public investment, we need structural resources, not extraordinary funds.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the league, i would like to express our solidarity with all the citizens who have been victims of the terrible wave of bad weather in recent weeks. first of all, i want to thank civil defense and the thousands of volunteers who are helping our people. eleven italian regions, particularly the veneto region and the whole of the north east, have been brought to their knees by floods, thunderstorms and tidal waves, which have wiped out houses, roads, forests, beaches and human lives. according to preliminary estimates, the damage balance sheets are very heavy. over eur 1 billion in veneto, my region; the commission has already decided to grant a loan of eur 500 million to the region of friuli venezia giulia, eur 250 million to trentino alto adige and hundreds of millions to liguria, lazio, sicily and the rest of italy. in the face of this catastrophe, our citizens urgently need all the resources that europe can provide, first and foremost the european solidarity fund, which must be disbursed as quickly as possible. we are asking europe to cooperate fully in helping the venetians, the friulians and all the italians who have been affected by the bad weather and who are already working to rebuild our countries. we do not want europe's charity, because our people are used to working, to rolling up their sleeves and doing things for themselves. in brussels we only ask for what is ours, what is italian. every year they gave millions of euros that were not returned to our country. we want our money back, nothing but budget constraints and austerity. we want to spend our money to rebuild our countries, to secure our territory and to help our citizens who have lost everything. for once i ask that europe show real solidarity and think of our citizens, not of spreads or bank interest.
in writing. education is not only a fundamental right but also the key to development, as it plays an essential role as a multiplier for development itself. it involves an expansion of capacity and opportunity for individuals, generating critical thinking and economic independence. perhaps we underestimate the fact that millions of children around the world are denied access to education because of conflict, forced displacement and violence, as the real risk is that an entire generation remains in a perpetual state of need and dependency. this is why education must be at the heart of efforts to achieve the 2030 agenda, simply because it is a prelude to achieving the other sustainable development goals. i would like to stress the need to ensure that development funds are allocated in a coherent manner and that they are allocated as a priority to vocational education and training programmes. development is education, and i hope that this concept will be translated into concrete action, including specific targets and objectives in the next multiannual financial framework.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly 15 years ago, on 12 november 2003, dozens of our dear carabinieri and other military men, two civilians and other foreign nationals died at the carabinieri base in nassiriya. i wanted to remember these heroes, also so that we never question the courage, the loyalty of our beloved carabinieri, especially when perhaps someone would like to speculate shamefully on isolated cases of behavior far from this which is a glorious story of dedication and loyalty to the institutions. a thought and a memory, of course also to their families, of this weapon of the carabinieri which is the mirror of the honest italians and the pride of all honest italians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last ten days, 37 people have died in italy as a result of floods. at the same time, the government included in the decree of genoa measures for the areas affected by the recent earthquakes, instead of seriously legislating on reconstruction. because reconstruction means that the state assists its citizens, in full respect of italian and community rules, individually and safely, and ensures a home to those who have lost it, without getting lost in trickery and bureaucracy. the government, on the other hand, has only come up with the hypotheses of sanatoriums that do not help those who have lost their homes, but only generate false expectations because they prolong the time without offering a solution. to approach such a complicated issue with such superficiality, just to maximise the result at the next european elections, is a defeat for politics and for the citizens. but there are far worse aspects to this story. the italian government has rejected a loan of as much as 800 million from the eib for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk. the lack of foresight in this choice is evident, while we are asking for funds for such important and vital works to be excluded from budgetary constraints.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all thank you very much to everyone for being present today as parliament prepares its position on the multiannual financial framework (mff). the mff file is considered a top priority by this presidency and the council is working at full speed on the file. ministers discuss the issue every month when they meet in the general affairs council and experts meet every week to discuss the proposals in detail. no efforts are spared to make as much progress as possible before the end of the year. but as we dig deeper into the commission proposals we also identify more and more elements that will require difficult discussions and, ultimately, difficult compromises. this was obvious also yesterday when ministers had a substantial debate in the general affairs council on the mff proposals. yesterday, ministers identified by the presidency some topics as key future ones and we have to look at this. to name just a few: many ministers intervened on the overall size and distribution of the budget; the weight of national contributions, the size and protection of national envelopes in cohesion, or the external convergence in agriculture. those are not issues that will be easy to solve. and let us not forget the necessity to achieve unanimity in the council. so if you look at the number of issues on the table and their complexity, and if you take into account the overall political context of our work, it is increasingly clear that it will take time to finalise the council position. the mff is not only about numbers, because behind numbers we are talking about policies. that’s why these negotiations are an all-encompassing exercise and a highly political one. it is not a secret that some elements are so sensitive that they will require guidance from the highest level. this being said, work doesn’t stop in the council. we are all very much aware that cooperation with parliament will be essential to conclude this file. this is why the vote taking place this week in parliament is very important and the interim report you will adopt i am sure will be looked at in detail by delegations. this is also why the presidency insists on keeping parliament informed about the progress in the council and organises exchanges of views regularly between the two institutions. in that spirit, yesterday evening my general affairs council colleague discussed with parliament’s negotiating team the latest developments in the council on this field. this dialogue and our debate today are very important to make sure that we understand the position of one another and our respective constraints and expectations. i hope i managed to convey the complexity of the discussions in the council and the difficult choices that await member states down the line. i hope you can take this back with you.
member of the commission. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. i thank the rapporteurs, all the committees and the committee on budgets - with mr arthuis as chairman in particular - for the work behind it. the council and parliament have made considerable progress in the period from may of this year to today. parliament will vote tomorrow. the council has already made good use of the last few weeks, under the bulgarian and austrian presidencies, at the working level and in the council in general, and the negotiating box is practically ready. on this basis, the policy level can now begin to bring the negotiations to fruition. ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful that important horizontal issues are uncontested. the seven years as a time frame are accepted by parliament and the council. the seven chapters the headings and thus a visible policy are accepted by the council and parliament. we are in agreement between the commission and parliament that new own resources are useful for the expansion of the revenue side and we will have to discuss this on the basis of various proposals in the coming weeks. the need to incorporate the rule of law into the budgetary framework is accepted by a majority of parliament and council. the fact that we need a high degree of flexibility in order to react promptly to new problems and tasks should, i think, be accepted by the council and parliament, also on the basis of the commission's proposal. who knows what europe's tasks will be in 2026? i think that a high degree of flexibility between headings and programmes and financial years is both useful and necessary, as in the case of the midterm review and the reform decided by parliament and the council a few years ago. the programmes are accepted on the basis of the criteria. there are some considerations in parliament for a few complementary programmes. the need to help in this area in the path towards a low-carbon future for europe is indisputable. the question is only whether cohesion, research and general programmes should be used to target the coal regions and co-finance their structural change, or whether a specific programme is more appropriate, as proposed by the parliament's committee on industry. i think that, since the horizontal questions, the seven headings, the classical programmes are largely uncontroversial, the decisive point is: what funding do the programmes require? we have three major pillars: pillar 1 - the agricultural policy, pillar 2 - the cohesion policy, pillar 3 - the addition of new or growing programmes, which are for the future and have new tasks. we used to have agriculture and cohesion at 40% and 80% respectively in the budget, now we have about 70%. the commission proposes a moderate reduction to about 60% 30% for agriculture, 30% for cohesion. these cuts - in the agricultural sector by 5% and in the cohesion sector by 6.3% - are criticised. but i am quite frank with you, and i am also aware of the council debate and the expectations of some member states that the ceiling should not exceed 1.0% of gnp, to believe that the british are going to leave and that cohesion and agriculture can be brought into the future without cuts does not seem very realistic to me. if the british have a rich uncle, the gifts under the christmas tree will not be more, but tend to be a little less or more efficient to choose. the third pillar doubling erasmus+, increasing research, horizon europe, stabilisation, connecting europe or much more for neighbourhood and the world, for foreign policy, for our approach to tackling the reasons for flight i believe that the third pillar proposed by us at 34% shows where there is european added value when europe invests together, cross-border within the eu and cross-border with our neighbours in the mediterranean, in the maghreb, sahel, sub-sahel, middle east or in the western balkans. so for me, the crucial open point is 1.3 times 1.0 times 1.114 and when do we decide? the sooner the better. the lesson from the current budgetary framework must be that those who adopt the implementing rules in december 2013, as they did then, have lost time in 2014 and 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. therefore, adoption in 2019 should be possible not 2020, but 2019. since this is an election - your election, the european election - we would prefer to continue to try our best to get it done by april next year. that would be the best option. the second best would be next fall, the worst would be fall 2020. and that is why the european council on 13 and 14 december is of crucial importance. and our expectation of the european council, our request, is that the european council, alongside brexit and migration, the constant topics, should give priority to the budgetary framework of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the multiannual financial framework is a measure of the ambition and therefore the effectiveness of the union's policies for the next seven years. i think we can no longer afford to set ourselves big goals - i think of agenda 2020 - and then not put the resources in to pursue those goals. if we continue on this path, we will frustrate the ambitions of the people, the expectations of our fellow europeans, and we will be doing europe a disservice. that is why we must continue to work to increase resources for clear objectives. the committee on employment believes that we must increase the allocation of the european social fund plus to turn the european pillar of social rights into concrete action. we must increase resources to combat youth unemployment. we must give more support to local and regional authorities, direct support to meet the challenge of social and occupational integration of refugees. we must put the child guarantee on the table, a tool designed to break the disadvantage of over 25 million children who are on the brink of poverty and at risk of social exclusion. i am sure that the council will be able to support us in this battle and provide the children's guarantee with the necessary resources. children are the future of europe. we hope for unity of purpose in this respect.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the multiannual financial framework is a key moment in defining the union's direction for the next period. the mff should therefore be linked, in our view, to the political cycle of parliament and the commission, and it is necessary that the reform on the revenue side be reflected in the expenditure side in order to identify policies and programmes which are a priority and have real added value at european level. it is also inconceivable that parliament should not be involved, on an equal footing with the council, in all the stages and aspects of the negotiation, approval and revision of the mff, as provided for in the treaties. finally, the conditionality clauses. the rule of law, which is a very delicate issue, must not and cannot become a political instrument in the hands of one party or one school of thought. the second one we suggest studying is linked to the question of migration. the phenomenon has a dimension and roots that call into question the entire international community. this is why the approach must be intrinsically common and respectful of fundamental rights. the union's stability is increasingly at stake here, ladies and gentlemen.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you are pleased with parliament's position on the next multiannual financial framework, calling it ambitious and courageous, but in my view it is a utopian contradiction, once again. we all want endless resources for research, for farmers, for young people, for infrastructure, for jobs, but the reality of the facts is much more complex. the resources for the budget of the european union are limited and we must take into account that those who actually put money into this budget, namely the member states, and rightly ask to have a strong say in the matter, have different priorities than ours. the european parliament and the commission want to force the clock without considering that, as from may, the next european parliament and the next commission may have different priorities. the member states are also being deprived of their powers by removing unanimity, introducing new taxes, calling them own resources, and also restricting the use of funds to absurd economic and political conditions. the mechanism of the european budget is as simple as it is perverse, especially for a net contributor country like my own. we give 100 a year to brussels and we get back about 70, and 30 have already been lost among other things, to fatten the expenses of the european bureaucracy for which austerity is never worth it. and that 70 we can only use for certain expenses and under certain conditions. this will have to change from may onwards, and the budget and the multiannual financial framework will change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate on the european budget, but as magritte would say, this is not a debate on the european budget, it is a debate on the europe we want. if we want a europe that survives the present or a europe that looks to the future, a europe that is capable of growth, that is capable of giving the answers that citizens expect on work, on unemployment, on young people, on research, on new transport, on social policies, on policies to combat climate change. the europe that survives, on the other hand, is the europe that is self-sufficient, that stands still, that has no ambitions and no courage, that stands still and watches a world grow, change, improve, but that is not able to give itself answers, but is only complaining about what it is not able to do. this is the europe that the member states want, not the europe that i think of, not the europe that this european parliament thinks of for the most part. the europe we are thinking of is one which defeats nationalism and sovereignty, which are so frightening, with politics and not with conventions or slogans. the europe that is defeating nationalism and sovereignty is putting a lot of politics into it for young people, for small and mediumsized enterprises, for municipalities, for our research institutes and universities. europe, which is defeating nationalism and sovereignty, has its own resources, its own revenue, its own taxation system which enables it to survive, and this is a system which does not ask for money from the member states, which does not ask for money from the citizens. it may seem like a miracle, it may seem like we have done a miracle, but it is not a miracle, it is simply concreteness, it is simply the ability to have a vision, it is simply fantasy in doing politics and inventing things. to ask for money and to ask for funding from those who do not pay taxes today, that is, the digital multinationals, the multinationals that have their headquarters in tax havens, those who produce great pollution, those who impose taxes on large financial transactions. this is the way to finance the policies we want for the future. this is the europe that is not surviving, but that through a dry instrument like the budget is able to give back a dream to the citizens, and this dream is a dream that starts from the great values of europe and from its roots.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we do not need more money, but money that is better spent. we are of course in favour of reinstating the funds for the common agricultural policy and also for social policies, but this must be done by cutting back on administrative waste and programmes which are considered inefficient, such as the funds allocated to turkey. we must ensure that the european social fund can be used against poverty and unemployment, and we want it to provide resources and instruments for states that want to develop minimum income schemes. the proposal we are voting on is a dream book, beautiful but not achievable. we are talking about a total of about 200 billion more. the point is: but who will put this 200 billion? it is certainly not the own resources, as some would have us believe, because we obviously support the need for and the purpose of them, especially if we really succeed in tackling avoidance, pollution and speculation, but it is also true that the european court of auditors has expressed doubts about their timely preparation for the next multiannual budget and therefore we cannot support a proposal which more or less veiledly calls for greater contributions from italian citizens to the european budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having may seem to be about numbers and figures, but it is not. we are talking about the worker who finds help in relocating after losing his job, thanks to the formation of the european social fund. we are talking about the student who is able to study abroad thanks to erasmus. we're talking about the small business that can drive innovation and investment, thanks to cosme. we are not talking about numbers, we are talking about the lives of european citizens, and european citizens deserve an ambitious, strong budget, suited to the challenge of bringing europe back to solid growth. i am therefore glad that parliament is still reiterating its message today: the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is precisely the latter, in my view, that can prove decisive, such as the tax on large multinational web companies and others that could result from the abuses of globalisation. we give europe the means to meet the expectations of its citizens without putting additional burdens on them.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources is a subject which is close to our hearts and should be important to all members of parliament and to the commission. we have had to fight on many fronts, and we have made some gains, but the cross-cutting obstacles of various parties and partisan interests have not allowed us to revolutionize the sector as we would have liked. the state incentives for renewable energy production remain optional. so, to balance the scales under the rigid conditions of austerity, under the conditions imposed by europe on the budget, many states will be unable to apply them. another negative aspect is the push towards the use of wood as a renewable fuel, with no limit on the use of wood from the forest. we risk a race to deforestation, an increase in particulate pollution, with a consequent negative impact on the environment and the climate. the directive made an effort to increase the overall union target to at least 32% renewables and, given the pressures from fossil fuel related sectors, this was by no means a foregone conclusion. but above all, we have achieved a historic victory, we have recognised the right and allowed citizens to become prosumers - producers and consumers - of renewable energy, individually or collectively, by putting the unconsumed energy into the grid and obtaining a market share at least equal to that of the market, free of charges and taxes until 2026. households and communities can become independent of large corporations, and the renewable energy produced can accelerate a real transition process. the directive is an improvement on the current one. i therefore voted in favour, hoping that the next parliament - which is almost certain - will have more power to stop the lobbies and interests that are determined to jeopardise our future.
dear chancellor, thank you for being here in strasbourg, in the european parliament, for this very important debate with the members of the european parliament on the future of the european union. for us, it is very important to know the german position on the most important issues on the future of our union. we know the position of the european parliament, we know the position of the commission, but for paving the way for a better europe we need to change europe, but it would be a big mistake to destroy europe. we want to be european in the coming years as well. the european parliament wants more power. (applause)we are the only european institution that is directly elected by the citizens. on the budget, we want to decide before the european elections. we want to increase the budget from 1.1 to 1.3, we want own resources. on immigration, the other important issue, we want to cooperate with the council; we want to achieve a good solution to the dublin reform. it is possible to achieve an agreement before the end of this year. and also if we want to achieve a good solution on immigration we need to invest more in africa. we need a plan for africa. we need more money in africa to combat climate change ... (applause)... against terrorism, against poverty, in favour of growth. not a new colonisation, but a new modern cooperation between europe and africa. for this we need also a european foreign policy with a european defence. this is very important for us, it is very important for the future of the european union. thank you, chancellor for being here. you have the floor. (applause)
i didn't know there were wolves in this courtroom.
mr president, there are also many more commissioners than usual.
please respect the time allocated to you because it is quoted for groups. if the group leaders speak more, the members of the group speak less.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of italians, faced with the arrogance and the harshness of the rules imposed by this european union, led by germany, have the impression that they are in the same situation as those italian military internees whose cause i had the honour of advocating directly to you. i ask you if you do not think that the time has come to change the register and to lend a hand to this italy which is standing up, which asks nothing of anyone, which only wants to solve its own problems, helping those who suffer, putting into practice not words, as you do, but concrete solidarity towards 5 million, perhaps 6 million poor italians who have been forced by the rules of your authority to look for bread in the garbage. thank you, madam chancellor.
i ask you to respect the time allocated to you because you are taking it away from the members of your group. mr járóka, you are the vice-president and you spoke for two minutes instead of one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, i give you two italian references. italy, which is still convinced that it is a proud founder of the european union, believes that it is even better to believe that we can grow together, that we can grow together with europe and not against europe. italy is much more than its current bad financial maneuver. italy believes in the great works, it believes in the great investments like tav and tap and it believes in the peace generated by this europe. of course, he believes that the foundation of this continent is the productive capacity that it has always represented, to put it simply. the heart of europe is certainly much more bavaria and lombardy than the port of rotterdam, important as it is. we are a country of producers, not traders, and the commission must remember that. i would like to add that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. "germany cannot afford to lose and fail over europe". well, italy cannot fail europe either and it cannot play with the peace that europe has brought about.
your honor, i decide who speaks. so if you want to talk, you can.
if you want to talk, talk! otherwise, i can't change. it's not your decision.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can underline everything you said today. i'm from south tyrol. you know the country. you know how important the schengen treaty is to us. you know how important it was for us that the brenner border, which was closed 100 years ago, was reopened through europe. that is why i am calling on you to take note of the fact that your country has controlled its southern border for years. if people are stuck in traffic jams every day because they have to wait for checks, then they will no longer believe in europe. if people who want to cross to shop or work, after 25 years of being used to free borders, are suddenly stuck in traffic again, they will not believe in europe. so we do these little things too. i simply ask you to be brave and stop this farce. you know very well that this is not good for security. most of the border crossings are open. the few that are checked will not be crossed by illegal smugglers. i think it is really time to put the border controls between the federal republic of germany and austria into the past once and for all. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, i have always appreciated your commitment and have always seen in you a very, very strong and very important leadership. i think that is what is lacking in europe. europe, in my view, cannot be two- or three-speed. i believe that the europe of the peoples must be transformed from bureaucracy into politics and i believe that the initiative of the european parliament, the role of the european parliament must have its own capacity to convey an effective message. i've heard about immigration, i've heard about the environment, i've heard about the military and common defense. i agree with everything. as regards immigration, i believe that parliament has shown a way out, but we are still in a deadlock. but since i deal with international trade policy, i believe that the best response from europe, for a people's europe, is to our enterprise, and to our small and mediumsized enterprises, which very often fail to understand the mechanisms, the language, the strategy, the objectives. i think that starting with our company, there would be an extraordinary approach to giving concrete answers to employment.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. chancellor merkel, 100 years ago on 11 november, the signing of an armistice ended the great war with its 18 million deaths, the main causes of which were tensions between states, provoked by economic reasons and exacerbated by widespread nationalistic sentiment. after more than 70 years of peace, the 'european project' born after 1945 is threatened by the rise of nationalism and populism. the resurgent nazi-fascism is manifesting itself in my country as well as in yours, as in the rest of europe. the next elections will therefore be decisive for the history of europe. european values and social solidarity are at the heart of the battle, but pro-european forces cannot continue to defend this europe. our citizens are demanding a europe that can respond to their concerns. there are many sensitive issues on the table: the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the situation in the member states. you recently announced that you will not be running for re-election as chancellor. my question is very simple: if not now, when?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, four years after the signing of the association agreements, we are beginning to see some results. georgia has shown significant commitment, moldova has shown many more difficulties. but these agreements and the most recent visa liberalisation are only a good starting point on a long road, nothing more. in fact, some progress has been made, but there are clear limits to be worked on. i was recently in georgia, just as an observer for the last direct presidential election, and therefore even more symbolic and crucial for the future of this country. even in an overall positive electoral context, i have seen a more than questionable pressure on civil society from the highest levels of politics. not to mention questionable attacks on organizations engaged in the precious task of election observation, defined as accomplices of fascism merely for trying to play their role. these are strong words, especially considering that georgia is a member of the human rights council and the council of europe. respect for the independence of civil society is a sine qua non for building a more constructive partnership. we reiterate this and we will reiterate it to our friends in chisinau and tbilisi.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs lösing has done a very good job with this report. it is time that intentions were finally followed by concrete deeds. the idea of a europe as a bastion of human rights and democracy is often countered by a very different and much more worrying reality. about 40% of export licences are for countries in the middle east and north africa. as we all know by now, the very weapons we sell to countries like saudi arabia not only violate two of the eight criteria of the common position, but they become instruments of death, fuelling unprecedented conflicts and humanitarian crises, just as in yemen. how many more deaths must we count before the common position is fully respected, before there are sanctions for member states which continue to violate it? because they do not want to impose an arms embargo, after our parliament has repeatedly called for it, even after the barbaric murder of journalist khashoggi. how far are we willing to remain silent accomplices to this incoherence that continues to reap innocent victims in the name of the one god of money?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying for some time that the response to the migration phenomenon needs a global strategy and that the countries most affected by it cannot be left alone. we have always argued for the need to cooperate to remove the root causes of irregular and uncontrolled migration flows and to prevent the lives of thousands of people on the run from ending up in the hands of criminal networks. there are currently 258 million migrants living outside their countries of origin. the global compact is about safe, orderly and regular migration and it reflects the need, often expressed by this parliament, for shared principles, objectives and responsibilities and for a substantial increase in international cooperation. it is therefore a pity that several european states have already announced that they will not share its content because once again national selfishness will prevent europe from having a strong single voice in better managing international migration in all its dimensions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was truly prophetic, years ago, to publish your pamphlet entitled "l'éloge des frontières" by régis debray, whom i think no one would want to accuse of being like us, a fascist, a racist, a xenophobe, a great freedom fighter, because to see the ratios of this pact is precisely the abolition of borders, to realize the globalist demographic plan that goes back even to the 1920s with the sdn - the league of nations - for a redistribution of the world's population. a plan. this isn't about conspiracies. this is about what we see. the 23 points of this plan are enough to show how much more compelling the statement is than the velvety declaration that nothing is imposed on anyone. there is something very worrying about this obsession with encouraging migration, namely the uprooting of the peoples against whom a man of freedom like régis debray, who was not by chance engaged in this great battle, was fighting. if you want to create, through this pact, legal highways for illegal immigration and the transhumance of the slaves needed for the last phase of financial neocapitalism, we say congratulations, gentlemen of the left, you are betraying the peoples, you want the uprooting of the peoples. you are the enemies of the people!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the global compact on migration represents a historic opportunity, because only with the consent of all can we develop inclusive migration policies that respect the human rights of all, migrants and refugees. yet this unanimity, which would enable the world pact to function at its best, is being called into question by some populist countries which are thinking of breaking free by sabotaging it by threatening to drag other countries along with them. the pretext they use to protect national sovereignty is not valid, because we know very well that sovereignty will never be called into question by a non-legally binding pact. anyone who acts according to this logic completely loses sight of a fundamental concept: no country alone will ever be able to grasp the challenges and opportunities of this phenomenon. as this house has already voted in the resolution on the holistic approach to migration, the rights and dignity of people must be at the heart of our policies. only then can we facilitate safe, orderly and regular migration in the interests of the entire national community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i was in new york with some colleagues for the first un summit on refugees and migrants, the parade of european heads of state and government filled their mouths with good intentions, except that when it came time to turn words into deeds, they marched. the decision by austria to withdraw from the global compact is very serious, especially since these are not binding agreements. so this is a pure propaganda move, aimed at creating an international anti-immigrant front. but i agree with what mr guerrero salom said, and then he will be suspended, because he is not able to represent the council, being the president of the council today, he is not able to represent a strong voice of the european union. these are acts which the rest of the union must condemn in the strongest terms, because they weaken the union's position tremendously. this is a challenge, the challenge of migration, which is clearly european and global and which requires responses based on solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility among all.
i would like to thank mr lópez aguilar for his excellent report. we have just finished discussing the global compact and the need, if not the urgency, to create legal, orderly and safe pathways to the european union. since the beginning of this parliamentary term, parliament has not shied away from its responsibilities. in the resolution on the holistic approach, this house has already strongly called for the need to use humanitarian visas for those in need of international protection, and asked the commission for more specific provisions. the libe committee has repeated this request by adopting the amendments on humanitarian visas in the visa code, which as we know has sadly been wrecked following the council's refusal to proceed with the negotiations and the consequent withdrawal of the proposal. the commission cannot now back down. the deadline of march 2019 should not be seen as an ultimatum, but on the contrary as a great opportunity to give a meaningful response to those in need of international protection and who fail to realize this right. only an ambitious proposal will be able to guarantee safe and legal channels and consolidate the foundations of a migration policy that revolves around the rights and dignity of people.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, guaranteeing legal access to the european union for those who are entitled to international protection is the first step in combating human traffickers and in overcoming the greatest contradiction we have today in the european union, namely the desire to combat irregular immigration without offering a legal alternative. a visa system that is not prone to abuse and allows access to european territory to apply for asylum would help to create the conditions for uncorking the business of boatmen and traffickers, also increase the security of the countries of destination and ultimately have a more orderly and dignified management of migration flows. such a system would be a bold and consistent step by the european union to live up to the values on which it is founded and would meet the needs of frontline countries, such as italy and greece, which are often used as entry and transit countries, but where they were forced to remain because of the failed dublin regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, for the passion and determination with which he has been waging this just battle for years. nationalists all over europe tell us that we cannot take in all migrants and that only those who arrive legally can stay in the union. they lie knowing they're lying. there are very few legal channels for access to the european union, and the lack of safe routes for those seeking protection in europe is the greatest shortcoming of our migration policies. there are not many ways to avoid deaths at sea or in the desert, but also to counter - because this seems to be the obsession of european governments - human traffickers, to destroy their business, as they say. there is only one way and that is to create a legal alternative, legal and safe pathways for access to europe. that is why parliament, even in the face of the reluctance of the council, is finally putting this proposal for a european humanitarian visa on the table. and i really hope that you will find the vast majority of this house in support of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of humanitarian visas has been widely discussed in the european union until now, but without any concrete results. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas (com (91) 0402 - c4-0214/2011) the common objective is to define common rules on procedures and to specify the conditions to be met by each member state for the issue of a european humanitarian visa to persons in need of protection. in this way, persons in need of protection may enter the territory of the member state which issued the humanitarian visa for the sole purpose of lodging an application for international protection in that state. it is currently estimated that 90% of those granted international protection have entered the union illegally. in addition, the estimated cost of irregular crossings in terms of human lives has been at least 30 000 deaths at the eu's borders since the beginning of 2000. for these reasons too, safe and legal routes to europe are needed. i am firmly convinced that humanitarian visas are an excellent means of dealing with the intolerable death toll in the mediterranean, of combating human trafficking in a real way and of managing legal arrival, dignified reception and fair treatment of asylum applications.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world of telecommunications is changing rapidly. we have more efficient connections, competition is increasingly complex, there is convergence of fixed and mobile networks and the demand for wireless data has exploded. today, in response to these significant structural changes, we are about to launch a european telecommunications code. however, while we must encourage investment in high capacity networks, we must also ensure that markets are more competitive by lowering prices and improving the quality of services for consumers and businesses. i am glad that several of our requests for greater protection of users have been accepted. first of all, the reduction in the cost of international calls between countries of the european union. these tariffs are not linked at all to the actual costs incurred by the suppliers. that is why we have asked for any price differences between national and intra-european calls to be eliminated. unfortunately, this request has only been partially accepted, but it is important that a ceiling of 19 cents per minute for intra-european calls be set. this will mean, for example, that in italy the price of these calls will be cut by almost half. i hope that consumers will take note of this change and that this is the first step towards a complete reduction in the cost of intra-european calls. other important achievements in consumer protection are more transparent bills, so that the bill explicitly states who the suppliers are and the duration of the services that are then charged, so that it is clear what we are paying for. it will be easier to switch operators, because keeping the same number and therefore portability is a key element of consumer choice and effective competition. so a new number will have to be made available within one working day and there will have to be refunds commensurate with the delays suffered. certain times for the transfer of the line, so that it is agreed with the user and is done at the time decided. finally, it is important that support for disabled users has been stepped up, for example by ensuring access to all contractual information and emergency services. i believe this is an important step towards an accessible and transparent digital single market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the final adoption of the telecommunications package marks an important step in the modernisation of the legislative framework in this sector. first, european citizens will be able to count on a more efficient and transparent telecommunications market and better access to services, especially for the disadvantaged. consumers will also benefit from more competition and choice and will be better protected against cyber threats. in addition, investment in infrastructure, such as 5g and fibre, is being boosted, which is necessary to adapt our society to the new digital dimension and to increase the competitiveness of our economic system. although we have not achieved the elimination of the additional costs for fixed telephony in europe, as proposed by our group, and as has been the case for roaming, the 19 cent per minute ceiling represents a significant reduction in costs for citizens and businesses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware today that the challenge of global competition with the countries of asia and america, but also with other areas of the world - i am thinking of canada, which is very much a digital country - is precisely at stake in the development of the digital economy, its ability to integrate manufacturing and services and its capacity for innovation. all this places europe before a great challenge if it is to cope with this competition. i think that this package, this impressive and important code, which has been negotiated by the honourable members and many other honourable members, is a good framework which puts europe in a position to face up to this competition for the development of the digital economy. i am thinking of the investment and regulation issue here, because we need to develop this economy in all sectors of an advanced appropriate network infrastructure. i think that this framework can be offered here, with the harmonization of the spectrum of harmonized management and also with the rules on investment. it will now be up to the operators to be able to play this challenge and to put the necessary resources into it. just two points: the spectrum and international tariffs. we have negotiated the fall of roaming - i was shadow rapporteur for my group - and i think that the reduction of international tariffs and the lowering of tariffs is going in that direction for consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the 2009 regulatory review, the market for electronic communications services has changed dramatically. the emergence of new players such as whatsapp, telegram and skipe is a direct consequence of the ability to rely on internet and digital access services. the telecommunications package aims to provide greater protection for consumers, for example by making it easier to change operators or receive the compensation due. after the abolition of roaming, intra-european calls will also be much cheaper, thanks to the introduction of a maximum tariff of 19 cents. the structural change includes measures to stimulate investment in high capacity networks and to regulate new frequencies to encourage mobile phone connectivity and the 5g network. for europe, 5g is a prerequisite for joining the gigabyte society. industry 4.0, smart cities, research or health are just some of the prospects linked to the exponential growth of demands for speed, security and greater connectivity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its own energy needs. in addition to ambitious but achievable targets of 20% emission reductions by 2025 and 35% by 2030, we have introduced a road compliance test to provide real driving emissions and fuel consumption data that can be used by third parties for independent verification testing. the commission is also asked to provide a methodology for assessing the emissions of heavy-duty vehicles throughout their life cycle, from design to scrapping. to improve the level of air quality in our cities, where over 72% of the population live, there are two important innovations. the first concerns city buses: more than half of all buses produced in europe in 2025 will have to be zero-emission, and by 2030 this will rise to 75%. the commission will also have to come forward with a proposal for reducing emissions from commercial vehicles, such as refuse collection trucks. finally, we want to encourage the role of natural gas in the transition to decarbonisation of the transport sector. for a europe on the move, yes, but towards a new model of development.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the alarm bells of the latest ipcc report and the european environment agency's gas emissions projections for 2017 have sounded with a shattering force a message that should now be clear to all: we're now in the red badge phase for climate. everyone has a role to play, especially the transport sector, which has increased its emissions the most over the years. it is therefore essential to achieve the best possible result on new heavy duty vehicles. as the five star movement we want to define a future-proof regulation, which really allows the spread of zero and low emission vehicles also in this market segment. vehicles such as trucks, trailers, buses and coaches generate over 6% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the union and 25% of road transport. we must therefore do our best as co-legislators to protect the climate by setting meaningful reduction targets. moreover, pushing the accelerator to stimulate the electrification of new heavy-duty vehicles will also serve to protect the health of europeans and strengthen the energy security of the entire continent. it will help us say goodbye to that toxic technology called diesel, which powers almost all of today's heavy-duty vehicles, generating staggering environmental and health costs. according to the available data and considering only the pollution from nitrogen oxides and particulate matter released during its normal life cycle of 12 years, a single diesel bus results in a cost to the community of eur 19 000. on the other hand, the 3 200 zero-emission city buses that will be on our roads next year, in addition to not polluting the air in our cities, will allow us to remove almost 600,000 barrels of oil from the market annually, saving over 40 million dollars. the text we have been working on in the committee on the environment is intended to strengthen and support this trend. that is why we shall support it wholeheartedly here in the house.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, the european truck sector represented a fleet of around 6.5 million vehicles, handling 14 billion tonnes of goods per year, transporting around 72% of all land-based goods in europe, or 90% of the total value of goods. the importance of the sector to the eu economy is clear and growing and heavy duty vehicles are now 98% diesel-powered. the importance of the sector to the eu economy is clear and growing and heavy vehicles are now 98% diesel-powered. it is right to aim at an ambitious plan for a reduction in co2 emissions from this sector, but such a plan must have realistic targets, both from a technological point of view and in terms of sustainability of production costs. the current proposed targets are more a figment of imagination than a real assessment of existing and developable technologies and force the market towards the electrical option alone, which is not in itself a wrong choice, but the market and especially the technology are absolutely not ready. as i said in relation to emissions from cars and light commercial vehicles, the proposal does not include a system which recognises the role of renewable fuels. it is therefore essential that the contribution and benefits of such funds to the decarbonisation objectives be recognised by introducing a calculation methodology that recognises the renewable component of the network at european level. it is therefore essential to consider the entire fuel chain, including extraction and production, transport and use of the fuel or electricity, in order to provide a more realistic comparison of the different options, and in this respect it is very important to recognise the role of methane and biomethane. finally, the penalties for non-compliance provided for by the commission appear to be based on a comparison of co2 emissions of light commercial vehicles with those of trucks in grams of co2 per kilometre, which is misleading and paradoxically ends up discouraging fully loaded journeys, i.e. the efficiency of road transport.
dear colleagues, it is my pleasure to welcome the president of the republic of south africa, cyril ramaphosa. this important visit takes place ahead of the seventh eu-south africa summit, to be held in brussels tomorrow. president ramaphosa, you are the fifth african leader to address this chamber in the past year. as you can see, strengthening ties with the african continent is a priority for us, but also for me it is one of the most important points for my presidency. let me begin by saying that the european parliament proudly joined the worldwide celebrations to commemorate nelson mandela’s legacy on the centenary of his birth. he was, as you know, the first person to receive the sakharov prize in 1988, in recognition of his struggle to end apartheid and his fight to pursue equal rights for all. we will always remember this great man with admiration and immense respect. mr president, in february of this year, you became south africa’s new president. your reforms are contributing to revitalise south africa’s economy by attracting foreign investments, enhancing private-sector competitiveness, creating jobs, especially for the young, fighting corruption and inequality, and improving citizens’ rights. we welcome your agenda and are confident that in tomorrow’s summit we will open a new chapter in our partnership. however, structural challenges in south africa remain: poverty, income inequality and unemployment are at the top of the list. the eu stands ready to support you in tackling these challenges. through stronger economic diplomacy and an ambitious ‘marshall plan’ for africa, we can help you attract investment. south africa is a champion of multilateralism, an active member of the african union and of the southern african development community. it is the only african member of the g20. this means we have to work together on our most pressing common challenges – trade, climate change, terrorism, migration and unemployment. i also wish to congratulate you on the election of your country as a non-permanent member of the united nations security council starting next year. south africa has a great role to play regionally and on the global stage. president ramaphosa, thank you once more for being here with us. you have the floor. (applause)
president ramaphosa, thank you very much. the message from the european parliament is very clear: we want to strengthen cooperation between the european union and africa and between the european union and the republic of south africa. thank you very much for coming. (applause) (parliament met for the awarding of the lux prize)
mr berès, i do not decide the speaking time, but it is all based on the d'hondt system. i am receiving from the services the number of members who can speak according to the time. so it is not for me to decide how many socialists, how many non-members can speak. they were scrupulously respected with one exception, because, according to the time used by the group chairmen, the gue group, the liberal group and the green group would not have had the right to speak. this is the only violation i've ever committed. in order to give representation to members as well as to the group chairmen, i made an exception. i have also been very careful to follow the request from the services, trying to get members who have never spoken in other debates to speak, because it would be unfair to have the same members speak every time during the 'catch the eye' debate. more than 200 members of parliament asked to speak yesterday, but chancellor merkel had to leave the chamber by 5.30 p.m. as i had informed you. so, i am sorry, mr berès, but there has been no breach of the rules of the d'hondt system. it is not up to me whether all the members are happy or not. i'd let everybody talk, but time is what it is. i would like to thank you for allowing me to explain the organisation of work on the catch the eye when the heads of state or government are coming to take part in the debates before parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask for your help, on the one hand to thank the admo association for the great effort it has made in recent days and, on the other hand, to thank the many bone marrow donors for the challenge we have to face in alessandro. we're, alas, two weeks away from receiving the bone marrow donation. by the end of the month, this 18-month-old baby has to be there to meet the donor. he has not been found yet, i appeal to all of you: let's all work together so that this 18-month-old baby can find the right donor by the end of the month. thank you for your time and i'm sure you'll help.
on 2 october 2018, i announced in the house that a sanction had been imposed on ms giulia moi for her conduct towards parliamentary assistants, which was classified as psychological harassment. on 16 october 2018, mr moi lodged an internal appeal against that decision with the bureau, in accordance with article 167 of the rules of procedure. on monday 12 november 2018, the bureau unanimously confirmed the scope of the sanction adopted, namely the loss of the right to residence allowances for a period of 12 days.
mr tajani, i would like to know why your office has not been answering me for months about infringements by two of your employees, where there were irregularities in my request for more than a year before this fandonia about the dismissal of these two of my employees. i cannot work, there were no rules to protect the work of a member of parliament. his office has been receiving all the material for months and he's not responding to me. i am stuck in my parliamentary job and you are not meeting me with answers in the time allowed by law. your employees' violations are significant and you're not giving me an explanation. you're not letting me fire two people who broke the law. you're holding me back and i can't do anything. this charade of this accusation is ridiculous and could also be a political attack.
mr president, i understand your state of mind. i understand what you said. you've had time to express your views, now let me answer. he said what he meant. the sanction has been imposed, it has been confirmed. the decision wasn't made by me. the decision was taken by the harassment committee. your honor, the sanction has been lifted.
i would remind you, mr president, that this is not the bundestag, nor is it the bundesrat, but the european parliament, and therefore the representatives of the political groups are speaking. this is not a debate on the political situation in germany.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
before moving on to the report on the multiannual financial framework, i would like to stress the importance of this vote because with this vote the european parliament intends to claim its power of legislative initiative, to claim its role as the main legislator and to demand that the multiannual framework be decided on as soon as possible. it is a political message that parliament sends to the council and the european commission.
i said twice that we needed a majority of the deputies. i've been waiting longer. 595 members of parliament voted. it's not my place to say if they didn't vote. i said twice that we needed a qualified majority. there was a desire to remove the tiles.
i have said twice, mr president, that we needed a majority of members. they are all experienced parliamentarians, it is not for me to say when they should take up or put down their cards. it's a mistake by the mps. it's a decision of the mps.
mr lópez aguilar, members are well aware of how the house works. i've said it twice. it's not up to the president, just as it's not up to the majority. so the vote cannot be repeated.
no need to shout "honorable". i'm not deaf.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are all called upon today not only to talk about the security of the forthcoming election campaign for the european parliament, but also about the future of the european union itself. the potential influence of foreign actors is very serious but we must not be swept up in the emotion of events like the facebook/cambridge analytica scandal. we must be objective and not only act in the interests of the 500 million citizens we represent here. we must ensure security, avoid censorship and focus on education. it's right to ensure online security, but to consider traditional elections in polling booths to be completely secure is just a myth. there are distortions such as the exchange vote, the financing hidden and not given to politicians. pointing the finger and demanding an absolute degree of security for the activities carried out online is unlikely, since this degree does not exist even in the analogue world. this obsessive pursuit of security at all costs brings us to the second point, which is the risk of censorship and the restriction of freedom of expression. the european union has among its founding values the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights and any restriction on freedom of expression is intolerable. the commission has therefore been very cautious in its responses and it is not by imposing new forms of control of the network, which would be implemented by private parties, that the regularity of the elections is guaranteed. the third and final point is that i believe the only answer is to promote educational policies which provide citizens with the tools to develop awareness, critical thinking and civic responsibility. without education there can be no awareness and without awareness there can be no real democratic participation. finally, i would like to give some unsolicited advice to the political class in power in europe today: do not delude yourself that by implementing web babbling measures you will be able to avoid losing the next european elections. the winds of change are blowing strong in europe and they will sweep you away too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find this debate quite surreal because it seems to me that once again a european union which is unable to analyse its own failures and faults is turning the blame on an external enemy which does not exist. it's a cry for help to the russian enemy, to the russian hacker, when, in my opinion, the biggest spreaders of fake news are inside the european institutions. every day we are forced to hear foolish and untrue statements from representatives of the european institutions, and this is unacceptable. i think it's more appropriate to focus on internal criticism and why europe is failing than to shout at an external enemy. the legitimate doubt that comes to me and to many european citizens is that the battle against fake news is being used to close, given the eu's inability, even the space of dissent that social networks are able to give to those who are in the minority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the cambridge analytica scandal has shown how easily it is possible to manipulate public opinion by profiling citizens' political profiles from personal data and how easily it is possible to misuse this data to influence political choices. we have examples in this house of people who have used the european union and fake news about the european union for electoral purposes in recent election campaigns in several countries. so we think of the american elections, of course, and also the brexit campaign, but we also think of many campaigns that have taken place within the european union. we know that today politics is done using social media, that technology and information systems are an integral part of our lives and that is why we need to ensure that those who use them do so in a legal manner and on the basis of common rules and that it is possible to provide for financial sanctions in case of violations. above all, we must be vigilant and firmly defend the protection of our data. as you know, the european parliament has already legislated in this field. i'm in the proposal area today. mr wieland and i are the rapporteurs on the proposal for sanctions against european political parties in the event of misuse of electoral data. however, we don't just need guidelines, which are the preliminary stage - we legislate on sanction, but the preliminary stage is to prevent the violation from happening - but i believe we also need a task force set up by the european union to counter the use of fake news, which there will surely be using manipulated data from our voters. if we are concerned about the influence of these practices on the forthcoming european elections, we must be able to defend our public space not only with these guidelines, with rules and sanctions, but also with strong political activity. it is not just the commission but all our groups, our parties and our countries which must work on this, so that it is not possible for acts of misleading influence to change the outcome of the forthcoming electoral laws. we have seen some elements here that already tell us that it will not be something that cannot happen at all, but that the concrete possibilities are there and that it is up to us to prevent them from becoming reality.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation we are voting on tomorrow is of considerable importance for the rights of passengers in our countries. all too often in recent years we have seen problems and difficulties that have made rail mobility and short and long distance connectivity inefficient. poor information for passengers, inadequate assistance for disabled people, difficulty in claiming reimbursements, delays that forced them to change routes without knowing how to deal with the unexpected things that happened on their way. how many of us have missed important coincidences and not been fully aware of our rights in those circumstances? there are certainly more virtuous railway companies and others less so. it will also be important in future negotiations with the council to strike the right balance between passenger rights on the one hand and cost sustainability on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the transport of goods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, rail transport, precisely because it is the means of transport for commuters and for citizens with the greatest needs, should protect the rights of the most vulnerable consumers and users. i would like to emphasize what has been said by some of my colleagues before, namely that parliament must be the defender of people with reduced mobility and of all handicapped people. providing free assistance at stations and on short notice is essential to guaranteeing their freedom of movement. in fact, especially in the case of small stations, asking a disabled person to give 48 hours' notice to board a train was even against any principle of free movement of persons. finally, giving passengers more rights means encouraging them to use public transport which is cleaner than private cars and thus protects the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the passenger rights regulation seeks to strike a better balance between strengthening the rights of users and reducing the burden on businesses. the protection of users is necessary in a new european regulatory framework to increase the flexibility of the sector and its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport which have a more negative impact on the environment. the new criteria increase accessibility for disabled people at stations and thus show greater sensitivity and assistance to people with reduced mobility. i am in favour of increasing the levels of compensation for delay to 100% of the price for delays of more than two hours. i am not convinced that the abolition of the force majeure clause is a legal constraint which, if applied, could lead to endless litigation, since exceptional circumstances are a decisive factor in all balanced systems. moreover, it is not right to impose on undertakings unrealistic costs and obligations which ignore the needs of users. this would only reduce the attractiveness of the sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, every day tens of millions of european citizens travel by train. the european railway system, beyond the excellence of high-speed lines, still has too many shortcomings. news reports are full of reports of delays, delays and cancellations, especially in local and regional transportation, which is used mostly by workers, commuters and students. in the face of all this, european passengers do not have sufficient protection of their rights. this regulation will considerably increase the level of protection and the quality of services. these include more compensation for delays and cancellations, greater rights of access to services for disadvantaged groups and stricter requirements to equip spaces for the transport of bicycles in railway wagons. we shall try to strengthen the text even further between now and the vote tomorrow, to ensure better quality and more rights for passengers and to promote the train as a means of transport even further.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, notably the rapporteur, ms girling, and the shadow rapporteurs for the work done on the commission’s proposal to recast the pops regulation. pop stands for persistent, organic and pollutant. the term refers to chemical substances that persist in the environment, that bio-accumulate through the food chain and that are highly toxic to human health and the environment. let me underline that these substances can be transported over thousands of miles in the environment from where they were released. this is why persistent organic pollutants are a global concern. as is often the case, global challenges require global solutions. the international community took action on these chemicals through the establishment of the stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants, which entered into force in 2004. the current eu regulation on persistent organic pollutants dates from 2004 and implements the international commitments expressed in the stockholm convention. the regulation aims at eliminating the production, placing on the market and use of internationally produced persistent organic pollutants (pops). in addition, it aims at reducing and eliminating the releases of pops that are unintentional by—products of industrial processes such as dioxins. last march, the commission proposed the recast of the eu regulation on persistent organic pollutants in order to bring its procedures into line with the procedures set out in the lisbon treaty. the recasting process gave us an opportunity to update certain aspects of the regulation, to provide further clarity and to make its processes more efficient. for example, we proposed a role for the european chemicals agency (echa) to assist the commission and provide scientific support. in addition, we adopted and streamlined reporting and monitoring obligations and proposed to align the annexes to the regulation on persistent organic pollutants with the outcome of the 2015 conference of the parties to the stockholm convention. finally, we brought certain terms and definitions into line with those used in the eu reach regulation. i’m looking forward to hearing your views and i trust that you will give a strong mandate to ms girling to start negotiations as soon as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects. so, to make ourselves clear, we need to make clear that these are toxic chemicals that are dangerous on a global scale, because they travel very long distances in the atmosphere, persist in the environment for many years, and accumulate in ecosystems, thus posing serious risks to human health and the environment. we are talking about dioxins, furans and pesticides but also flame retardants which are still present in many products of daily use such as tv screens, computers or car components. that is why the international convention obliges us to be very strict in the treatment of these substances, very strict also when it comes to managing their presence in the waste and materials that are treated for recycling. i would therefore like to make it clear that we must prevent these products from being exported and treated outside europe according to environmental standards which are not ours and then being returned to europe through the window. that is why we socialists want to support and promote recycling activities, but at the same time we want to define ever stricter and more ambitious limits. secondly, a petition by european citizens and a study commissioned by the european parliament have provided evidence that contaminated soil and groundwater are likely to exist in europe. the socialist group has asked and obtained, building on what we did a few years ago in the context of the mercury regulation, that the commission and the member states should cooperate in order to identify and assess sites contaminated by persistent organic pollutants. these two principles will be upheld in the vote tomorrow and in future negotiations with the member states and the commission.
madam president, i must admit that i have been doing a lot of research on this subject recently and i must say that i am appalled at the way in which persistent organic pollutants are increasingly filling our environment and becoming a fatal threat to us. a fatal threat to our health, a fatal threat to the environment. i therefore want to say that i welcome this proposal which strengthens the existing regulation. thank you, commissioner, thank you, rapporteur, i am very pleased that the new rules for the european chemicals agency are clearly laid down. on the other hand, and this is why i have joined the debate, i ask the commission to be much more ambitious in the future. in the future, if we want to solve this problem, we will have to address a wider ban on these substances and the search for suitable components and suitable substitutes. so please, in the future, be more ambitious, it's necessary for our health and the health of our citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament who took part in the debate. it has been a really useful discussion and has touched upon the main elements of the commission’s proposal. let me underline, however, one specific issue concerning your proposal of listing decabde (decabromodiphenyl ether) in the recast, since this featured prominently during the discussion. while i fully understand the objective of parliament to take into account the experience and concerns of the recycling sector, i would like to remind you that it is crucial that our circular economies are as free as possible of toxic chemicals. this is in line with the objective of both the united nations stockholm convention and the eu regulation on persistent organic pollutants (pops) to eliminate production and use of these substances. to achieve that objective, it is of utmost importance that materials that contain persistent organic pollutants can be used or placed on the market only if those pollutants are present as unintentional trace contaminants. we must also be aware that products made from recycled materials will be accepted by consumers only if they have confidence in the quality and safety of the recycled material. before i conclude, let me refer to some of your additional comments. first, regarding mr andrieu’s point about breaches of chemical legislation, i’d like you to know that this study was conducted regarding the reach (registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals) regulation, whereas, in the debate, we were discussing the recast of the pops regulation and i would therefore really like to focus only on that. secondly, we think that it is important to note that, contrary to the stockholm convention, discussions regarding other similar substances, the stockholm convention decision that listed decabde in annex a to the convention does not include a derogation for recycling of products containing decabde. this is significantly different from the listing of the other pbdes (polybrominated diphenyl ethers) under the convention in 2009, where such a recycling derogation was included. in this case, the listing of the pbdes in the pops regulation in 2010 specifies that the unintentional trace contamination (utc) levels for the pbdes is ten ppm (parts per million), but in line with the listings in the convention, a derogation of 1000 ppms for recycled materials is allowed. there is no such derogation in the stockholm convention for decabde. to conclude, i would like to underline that the commission stands ready to provide support and to play to the full its honest broker role. i am looking forward to starting negotiations in order to ensure a first regarding agreement during the austrian presidency so that this legislation can make a real difference on the ground as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, high quality, reliable and accurate official statistics are the pillar of the eu’s economic governance, supporting decisions in our economic surveillance procedures in the context of the european semester. issues related to statistics are therefore a regular item on the council’s agenda. the council regularly – once every year – reviews the eu’s statistical information needs, examines reports provided by eu statistical bodies and adopts conclusions, which evaluate progress and set priorities for the upcoming year. undoubtedly, high—quality, accurate and reliable statistical data can only be produced by independent statistical authorities. the professional independence of the eu’s national and union—level statistical bodies is enshrined in eu law. the eu’s statistical authorities also operate according to the european statistics code of practice. the implementation of the code’s 16 principles is monitored by the independent european statistical governance advisory board, which informs both parliament and the council. indeed, the situation as regards the professional independence of statistical authorities in general has been satisfactory. the important exceptions, however, are the concerns expressed over the judicial proceedings against the former president of greece’s statistical authority, elstat, andreas georgiou, and two senior elstat officials. the commission has repeatedly reiterated since 2016 its full confidence in the reliability and accuracy of elstat data from 2010 to 2015 and since then. the issue has also been addressed by the eurogroup in the context of greece’s third economic adjustment programme, whose conditionality included requirements to review the provisions related to the autonomy of independent parties, including elstat. against this background, in june this year, on the occasion of concluding greece’s third programme, the eurogroup mandated the institutions to continue monitoring developments in the legal proceedings against the former president and senior staff of elstat and against the members of the committee of experts of the hellenic republic asset development fund. it also mandated them to monitor the supporting actions taken by the greek authorities, including legislative actions, if needed, in full respect of the independence of the judiciary. the institutions are expected to report back to the eurogroup in the context of the post—programme surveillance. these reports, in addition to the regular reporting by the european statistical agencies, will keep us informed on the situation related to elstat. with this, i will finish my brief statement and i will listen attentively to the commissioner’s intervention and to your debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i appreciate the opportunity to discuss with you the independence of statistics for europe. the independence of statistics and of the statistical authorities that produce them is a fundamental principle explicitly set out in eu law. the current governance of the european statistical system relies primarily on a clear, legal framework, the so—called statistical system. with your support, that law has been improved and strengthened, on the initiative of the commission and in full observance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. like any principle or rule set out in law, statistical independence needs to be monitored and its implementation needs to be ensured in practice. regulatory monitoring is carried out both by the commission and by independent peers in the context of the european statistics code of practice, already mentioned by the presidency. this code aims to enhance the professional independence, integrity and accountability of european statistics and of the european statistical system. you in this house, as the european legislator, have contributed to ensuring the transparency and accountability of the european statistical system by establishing the european statistical governance advisory board (esgab). esgab is an independent body of experts that oversees the implementation of the code of practice, and every year it makes a report, which it presents to you, honourable members, as well as to the council. the annual esgab reports have always covered the principle of professional independence and illustrated the progress achieved at national and eu levels. on the basis of the commission’s and esgab’s monitoring, the member states have identified and implemented improvement measures that contribute to maintaining the confidence of users, and particularly their trust in the independence of statistics.as regards the specific situation in greece and the situation of mr georgiou, let me firstly emphasise that the commission has full confidence in the reliability and the accuracy of data produced by the statistical authority in greece under mr georgiou’s leadership in the years from 2010. the commission has consistently confirmed this in previous public statements. secondly, let me repeat that the commission neither comments on developments in ongoing national judicial proceedings nor assesses the impact of court decisions that are not final and irrevocable. that said, i can understand that the staff of the hellenic statistical authority (elstat) may feel they are not sufficiently well protected to do their jobs effectively and independently. the commission has followed the developments in greece consistently and has repeatedly expressed its concern in that regard, both in public statements and directly to the greek authorities. the eurogroup has also consistently expressed its support for mr georgiou and, most recently in its statement on greece of 22 june this year, it has been inviting the european institutions to monitor the developments and to report back to the eurogroup. it’s important to highlight that the commission has actively supported greek statistics on several fronts. the support has led, inter alia, to amendments of greek law to further enhance the statistical authority’s institutional, operational and financial independence. other legal amendments have provided for the indemnification of current or former statistics officials for legal expenses incurred in the context of trials following lawsuits or criminal charges against them related to the performance of their duties. commission officials have also contributed extensively, with their expertise, to strengthening the statistical processes in greece, and we continue to do that, as we do in other member states too. in conclusion, i would like to reassure the honourable members that not only has the independence of the national statistical authorities been strengthened in law, but eurostat is also actively working to ensure that independence exists in practice too. your continued vigilance will help us in this task.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the independence and credibility of statistical authorities is a fundamental pillar of the eu and a prerequisite for a sound economy and a solid monetary union. we are proud of our statistics and we support eurostat in its work in ensuring their growing quality and reliability. we all know that falsification of statistics occurred in greece and that the work subsequently undertaken by mr georgiou, when he headed the hellenic statistical authority (elstat), has been crucial in improving the situation and bringing the numbers to reality and credibility. we also know that since then, elstat has been carrying out excellent work and the greek government has put in place all the necessary measures to ensure and safeguard its independence. as the eurostat assessment and approval of data collected as from 2010 show, elstat has, since then, acted in an objective and reliable fashion, in compliance with its tasks and code of conduct, and with eu statistics rules. our message here is clear and simple. we respect the greek judicial system and its autonomy. however, we regret the judiciary crusade against mr georgiou which, we know, was not been triggered by the current government. we want to reiterate here our full support for him. we are very concerned about the potential consequences of such an affair, and the risk of undermining the independence and impartiality of all statisticians: because independence means not only not being subject to external interference but also being safeguarded against hostile surrounding factors that could prevent people from carrying out their tasks freely and impartially.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on european security and the future of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty (2018/2907 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain amount of perplexity in the world over mr trump's decision to withdraw from the inf treaty, which prohibits the deployment of land-based intermediate-range ballistic missiles in europe, and which was signed by reagan and gorbachev in 1987. trump is basically accusing the russians of not abiding by the agreement because of two battalions of nuova tor cruise missiles, with a range of 1,500 kilometers, based on russia's western borders. moscow denies this, but obama had already threatened in 2014 to withdraw from the treaty because of the r500 missile tests, also complaining about the deployment of iskander ballistic missiles in the russian enclave of kaliningrad. the two installations in moscow, however, are a response to the start of construction of the anti-missile shield that the us has deployed in poland and the czech republic, equipped with highly advanced radar and missiles, officially to intercept any ballistic missiles launched by iran. trump's decision to abandon the inf treaty seems to be motivated by other things as well. for washington, denouncing the treaty means above all pressing for new negotiations with moscow, but also with beijing, a real emerging strategic power. the termination of the treaty would trigger a new nuclear and ballistic arms race similar to the one reagan wanted, forcing russia and china to do the same to undermine their economies, forcing them to invest in defense more than they could and would like. there are also non-strictly military aspects that trump seems to want to pursue. the white house appears to be pushing for an escalation of tension with russia to bring together a europe that is increasingly distant, reviving the protection offered by america's nuclear missile umbrella. but is europe really reassured by the upheaval of the military balance on its own territory? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world seems to be moving forward on the path towards disarmament and non-proliferation after the historic adoption of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, which was voted by 122 countries and is in the process of being ratified, and which parliament formally supported in a resolution in 2016. the humanitarian approach to nuclear weapons is gaining ground, and the consequences for those who possess them can be truly terrible. the us and russia, on the other hand, are taking us back to the cold war and strategic deterrence. president trump's decision to withdraw from the inf treaty after years of suspected moscow violations risks jeopardizing the diplomatic action pursued instead with multilateralism, as well as posing a real danger to european security. moscow and washington should think about the consequences of the failure of a treaty crucial to real world security. europe must do everything in its power to prevent this dangerous trend.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the inf treaty on intermediate-range nuclear missiles is undoubtedly one of the best legacies of the cold war. to do so would represent a huge risk to the security of europe, its citizens and the world. however, after years of mutual blame between washington and moscow, the former's scrapping of the inf treaty seems an increasingly concrete risk with unpredictable and dangerous consequences. first, the possible abandonment of the treaty by the us administration would further damage us-russian relations, increasing the climate of cold war not only between these two powers but also with china. the latter, not being bound by the inf treaty, was able to develop an arsenal of missiles not otherwise permitted and continued to do good and bad weather in the china seas. finally, the unilateral withdrawal of the united states from the inf would jeopardize the entire non-proliferation regime. in this context, the eu would be the first to pay the heavy price, becoming the scene of a ruthless and dangerous arms race. now more than ever, the eu must put in place all the diplomatic tools necessary to promote a multilateral and inclusive arms control agreement.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the response to the central american migrant caravan at the border with mexico (2018/2920(rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the humanitarian aspects which move everyone, this march is in fact a response to a strategy with a very specific aim, which is to divide the states by opening up major migratory routes from the third world to the so-called first world. the high finance gurus push and fund ngos to use the people of the third world as a tool to colonize the first world, to reduce wages and create political instability. with the support of the un, they are now westernising these populations, turning them into political sheep, in an attempt to make the first world, of which europe is an integral part, see that the commission should also see this and think about it more carefully. the phenomenon of the caravans raises again the question of the significance of the value of frontiers, which, as régis debray has rightly theorized, have an irreplaceable function as a filter and therefore as a defence of the identity of peoples. walls are not a degeneration, but a consequence of the refusal of demarcation and the defence of identity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ngo movimiento migrante mesoamericano has stated that 70% of migrants from central america, when they cross mexico to reach the united states, are subjected to rape and violence. the human body is being used as a bargaining chip to be offered to unscrupulous border police. anything to escape the hunger, the violence, the corruption that permeates countries like honduras and guatemala. it is a caravan of some 3,000 people, full of hope, because nothing can be worse than what they left behind. seeing the wave of desperation, trump thought it was a good idea to arm the border, no matter that it was his policies towards the rest of the continent that aggravated the situation. i would remind you of the 40% cut in funds for honduras, guatemala and el salvador, which has reduced economic opportunities and made citizens even more vulnerable. the elimination of temporary work permits in the united states for salvadorans and hondurans has also contributed to the impoverishment of those countries by reducing remittances. i mean, the opposite of what it should be. we need sensible policies which should include increased cooperation between the countries of north and south america. we need a clear immigration and asylum policy that is also applied consistently by the united states of america.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, why should we be surprised? the 7,000 people - men, women and children - from honduras, guatemala and el salvador are nothing but the symbol of global mobility. unfortunately, president trump's response has been to suspend asylum and mobilize an army at the mexican border, putting up a barrier to stop those who might be eligible for asylum and protection. the closure policies must be met with solidarity and also with multilateral instruments for the proper management of mobility, such as the un global compact on migration, which the united states has refused to sign and which other european states are questioning. president trump and those like him who applaud the closure of borders and the ban on free movement, i would like to remind them of the principle of the portability of rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european union is not prepared to accept the sanctions imposed by the united states on iran. the unilateral reimposition of sanctions, as a consequence of the us withdrawal from the agreement, is an act of international piracy, diplomatic bullying, unacceptable bullying against the entire international community and has nothing to do with human rights, as is shown by the fact that nothing is done against saudi arabia and its regime, but rather weapons are sold to them for the war in yemen. iran has been subject to the most comprehensive monitoring and surveillance regime in the world by the international atomic energy agency, which has repeatedly verified iran's compliance with its obligations under the mou. it is also the sanctions that affect the people and not the regime, and the european union will do well to defend the agreement, not only through instruments that guarantee the possibility for european companies to trade with iran and thus follow up on the agreement that otherwise risks falling, but also if necessary by providing for european counter-sanctions for american companies and by starting to use the euro for our energy bill.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think trump is not going to win his bet with iran. with the withdrawal from the nuclear deal and the start of the sanctions, the us administration made three bets: stop uranium enrichment, force the other signatories to withdraw their membership, penalize european companies, and bring down the iranian regime under economic pressure. realistically, he won't win especially the third bet. as many observers have pointed out, the nuclear deal had favoured the moderate side led by president rouhani to the detriment of the conservative side, the supreme leader khamenei. the reintroduction of sanctions will only play into the hands of the ultraconservatives, those who have always been opposed to dialogue with the united states and the west in general. so it's unlikely that trump's sanctions will spur any major changes in iranian policy, if not worse for human rights. i believe that europe should not be afraid and should pursue its relations with iran to the end, certainly by raising the issues it must raise, but with strength and determination.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate i conclude that we share a common interest in using the diplomatic power and instruments of the eu and its member states to their full potential in support of preserving and implementing the joint comprehensive plan of action, which is vital for eu and international security. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on its agenda.
the agenda includes the report by sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on assistance services in the eu for better gender equality (2018/2077(ini) (a8-0352/2018).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank sirpa for his excellent work on this important report on dismissal. in the european union, the unequal participation of men and women in care and domestic work remains a continuing challenge. the fact that women spend a disproportionate amount of time in unpaid work compared to men has serious economic and social consequences and is an obstacle to the achievement of the european union's gender equality objectives. the latest available data show an average gender gap in pensions in the european union of 40%, as a result of lifetime accumulated inequalities between women and men in the labour market. one of the main reasons for women's inactivity in the labour market is their limited ability to combine paid employment and family responsibilities in an efficient, flexible and cost-effective way.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for your interventions which are very valuable to the commission. let me react on several comments here regarding the competence of the european union to legislate and to come with measures in this area. the commission analysed very thoroughly the legal competences of the eu in this field of a combination of work and family duties, and as you mentioned here the family matters fall under the competence of the member states, while gender equality is the competence of the eu, and also we have a very strong economical case because we see in all the member states, without any exception, that the situation is not sustainable, that we cannot continue like that, that we have to enable women who want to work to work and to share also the family duties. i speak about the unsustainability of the current situation and economically inadvisable solution because we have at this moment more than 60% of the graduates at universities who are women, and then we do not use the potential of women at all or only in a limited way. many of you mentioned here the worrying demographic line. this is something we have to do a lot about and while speaking about the social services we have a tendency to speak about the problem of women. no, this is the problem of the whole society. if we do not solve this problem, we will have in the near future a very strong issue. the commission’s position on how to solve the problem was to respect the limited competences we have, but to use them in full, and this is reflected in our work-life balance package which, as you know, is the combination of legislative and non-legislative measures. as for the legislation, you know very well what we are proposing. as for non-legislative measures, we are recommending that the member states take steps to have a fairer social and tax system which does not bring disadvantages to women who are usually considered to be the first parents, and also we are addressing the member states through country-specific recommendations, where we are proposing to increase the salaries in the jobs in the social services sphere and in the jobs which are predominantly occupied by women, it means the education, social services and health sector. among the non-legislative proposals, there is also a very strong recommendation to use more public funding for better social services which will be more achievable or accessible and more affordable for all the people who need such services, and i heard from this side of the parliament that this is the money of the member states, so they should have a sovereign the competence to decide. well, we recommend something regarding the eu money, the eu structural funds, where for many years the position of the commission was that the social services fall under the national competence and it is the traditional, the classical cost, so it should be covered by the member states. this commission came with a change of paradigm, we said no, this is not the cost, this is investment and this is investment which has a very quick and high return of investment which pays off and which can be covered by eu money, and this is a change, and some member states reacted positively on that and some are still maybe hesitating. we want to do everything to through the work-life balance package. the trialogs are on a good track and i do hope that it will be one of our legacies that we came with the legislation which can bring a real difference for the lives of people. last comment on work-life balance legislation. no, we are not dictating how the people should live. we are not dictating how the people in the family, the men/women, should divide their duties. we are just doing what i am sure is our obligation, opening wider variety of choices for working parents and for carers to combine better their duties in the family and at the workplace. so, ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for this debate. thank you once again for the important report which is coherent with what the commission wants and plans and tries to promote. we indeed need to have a comprehensive approach and to make sure that this issue needs to remain high on the european agenda with a view to reach gender equality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the following is the text of the order of business of the meeting of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, amending regulation (ec) no 1235/2008 (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when we talk about vietnam, we think of the bloody war with the americans, the bombs and the weapons, but in reality the war against the enemy has turned into a war of dissent. in the southeast asian country, if you express a contrary opinion, especially on human rights or environmental rights, you end up in a cell, and there you start to be abused, beaten, electrocuted, given injections of substances. and what do we do to respond to all of this? we reward vietnam with a good trade agreement. the answer of this parliament must be to reject this trade agreement, to respond in fact to the violations of human rights that are taking place in this country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a price to be paid for expressing your views in vietnam: to give up their freedom and sometimes even their lives. this is illustrated by the case of hoang duc binh, a 34-year-old well-known vietnamese blogger. his denunciation of the environmental disaster caused by the taiwanese company formosa has cost him dearly: the sentence was 14 years in prison. the charge: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering. paradoxically, abuse presupposes the full enjoyment of this freedom. but the vietnamese do not enjoy this freedom at all, especially after the revision of the penal code, which even requires lawyers to report their own clients if they are guilty of certain crimes. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what has changed since the agreements were signed with a government which continues to repress even the slightest dissent by force? a government that makes a mockery of the international conventions it has signed and which has now become a haven for multinationals. our demands are clear: the eu has also expressed its support for the release of the political prisoners, including the former president of the council of europe, mr gbagbo. we demand full respect for human rights, if these agreements are not a piece of paper. no, we can't negotiate that.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, bangladesh had embarked on a virtuous, improving course, but the approach of the elections has probably made the situation worse again, with a fight against all forms of dissent, a reduction in fundamental freedoms, a fight against freedom of information and therefore an attitude on the part of the government that is unacceptable to us. the surprising thing, which i think we need to talk about, is that bangladesh has also become a member of the human rights council. given the presence of saudi arabia and the philippines in the council, we should ask ourselves whether this council of human rights is not the council of human rights violators, perhaps a reflection should be made. let us remember that bangladesh benefits from the preferential regime in the 'everything but arms' programme, which provides for respect for fundamental rights, so let us use our pressure to enforce them.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 december general elections will be held in bangladesh. as these deadlines approach, the true nature of who is in power may be lost in the event of defeat. bangladesh is a country which, despite a whole series of problems, last may received the praise of the un, which, in the universal periodic review, assessed dhaka's progress as remarkable. the situation has changed very, very quickly. we are witnessing a violent crackdown on freedom of expression of the media and of the opposition, as well as arrests, enforced disappearances, use of torture. the case of photojournalist shahidul alam is a case in point. ladies and gentlemen, the eu has an 'everything but arms' agreement with bangladesh, a tariff exemption which we grant on all goods, except arms, to developing countries. well, this mechanism of suspension clauses linked to respect for human rights, but if we do not have the courage to mention those clauses, to activate them when appropriate, we will always look like a giant with feet of clay, a big market of business as usual and nothing more. is this the image we want to give of europe to the world?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of petitions have been received by the committee on petitions over the last ten years and the number is still growing. petitions denouncing serious discrimination against non-german parents, discrimination which is perpetrated by the jugendamt in the context of transnational family disputes. all this is contrary to the rules and principles of european union law and seriously undermines the protection of the welfare of the children involved. the committee on petitions has, during these ten long years, made recommendations to the german authorities, to the european commission, to the council, has made two fact-finding missions, has even set up a working party which has been working for a whole year, and which i had the honour of chairing, but all the recommendations made have remained dead letters to date. this is due both to the refusal of the german authorities to cooperate constructively, which has been repeatedly urged to do so, and to the unacceptable formalism and superficiality of the european commission, which has unfortunately persisted in denying thorough investigations into the criticisms made of the german system of family law. i refer in particular to statistics. we have repeatedly asked for statistical data to be collected both on the outcome of family custody cases involving a non-german parent and on the number of cases, also involving a non-german parent, in which a judge has departed from the recommendation of the jugendamt. we also asked for a light on the discrimination related to the use of language, which is often denied during meetings between parents and children. i hope that this resolution will finally shed light on this issue, that it will lead to concrete action not only by the european commission but also by the member states. i hope that this issue can at least be studied and communicated and that the practices that are actually adopted by the german family law system can be understood and communicated and indeed tackled in a calm manner, because that is the way we will have to deal with this problem if we want this european union, this common home of ours, to be called such, especially for the protection of future generations.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 15 november 2018.
on 25 november three ukrainian vessels - one tugboat and two warships - attempted to cross the kerch strait on the odessa-mariupol route. russian authorities have blocked their passage. the tug was subsequently rammed by a moscow military ship and the russian navy fired on the ukrainian vessels and seized them; at least 6 ukrainian servicemen were injured and 23 were arrested. following these events, ukraine declared martial law in 10 regions for a period of 30 days. in view of this further serious escalation of tensions in the region, i would like to express our deep concern and remind you that the territorial integrity of ukraine is of fundamental importance to us: russia has no right to prevent the passage of ukrainian or other countries' vessels to the sea of azov and has an obligation to respect the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the cooperation agreement concluded with ukraine in 2003. we therefore call on the russian authorities to ensure that their obligations are respected and to release the ukrainian military personnel who have been arrested. in my meeting yesterday with the president of the ukrainian parliament, andriy parubiy, i wanted to assure him that this parliament is following the matter very closely and will do everything possible to facilitate a positive solution. i also informed him of the resolution we adopted on 30 october, in which we deplore the disproportionate actions of the russian authorities in the sea of azov.
i hereby declare that i have signed, together with the president of the council, the following acts adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure: regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the use of the schengen information system for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals (00034/2018/lex - c8-0485/2018 - 2016/0407 ((cod)) regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system (sis) in the field of border checks, amending the convention implementing the schengen agreement and repealing regulation (ec) no 1987/2006 (00035/2018/lex - c8-0486/2018 - 2016/0408 (cod)); regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment, operation and use of the schengen information system (sis) in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, amending and repealing council decision 2007/533/jha and repealing regulation (ec) no 1986/2006 of the european parliament and of the council and commission decision 2010/261/eu (00036/2018/lex - c8-0487/2018 - 2016/0409 ((cod)).
as in the past, i and parliament will condemn acts of violence against members of this house. before any official statement if it is true it would be a very serious fact i want to have an official confirmation. i will call the embassy of this country to ask what happened and if i get confirmation of the facts - i believe your words of course - i will protest formally with the ambassador of the country in question. i will inform you of the outcome of these talks.
mr president, you do not need any information from me because the chairman of your group was present, as were all the chairmen of the groups, and was therefore fully informed. your group knows how the story unfolded. there is no breach of the rules. i made it very clear: the vow could not be repeated. if you want to restart the legislative process, there is nothing to prevent it. and everything has to be done by the book. that is what i said at the conference of presidents and that is what all the representatives who attended the conference of presidents accepted. so no rule violations and no favoritism on either side. the vote was absolutely valid. the proposal was rejected. if another initiative is to be adopted, no one can prevent members who want a similar initiative from presenting it again. there is nothing in the rules that prohibits that.
we all join this battle for freedom in defence of freedom of religious expression, not only within the european union but throughout the world.
it is a common commitment of this whole parliament to fight for gender equality. i tried to demonstrate this last sunday, on the occasion of the day against violence against women.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on 15 november 2018, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: wednesdayfollowing the debate on the future of europe, the order of the first two items is amended as follows: we will begin at 5.30 p.m. with the commission statement on the eu's long-term strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the paris agreement, followed by the commission statement on the single market package. the statement on the report by mr khan on the defence of academic freedom in the union's external action is added as the last item before the one-minute speeches. the sitting will therefore continue until 1 p.m. thursday following the failure to reach agreement at the end of the budgetary conciliation period, the debate on the 2019 budgetary procedure is postponed. the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. the vote on the following reports, all of which relate to the budgetary procedure, will be postponed: report by mr viotti on the mobilisation of a flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current challenges of migration, refugee flows and security threats; report by mr christoforou on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances under the general budget of the union for 2019; report by mr mureşan on draft amending budget no 6/2018: reduction in payment and commitment appropriations: own resources. in addition, the following points are added directly to the votes: report by mr dalli on the re-commitment of the remaining amounts committed in support of the implementation of council decisions 2015/1523 and 2015/1601 or their allocation to other actions under the national programmes, and objection under article 106 on the authorisation of certain uses of sodium bichromate.
does anyone want to speak against the s&d group's proposal?
i put to the vote by roll call the proposal from the socialist group to add one item... it is not a debate, there have already been some who have spoken in favour of the proposal and now one against. the socialist group requests that the preparation of the marrakesh intergovernmental conference of 10 and 11 december 2018 be added to the agenda for thursday morning. (parliament adopted the resolution)
you add the point in question but nothing is sacrificed. the debate will take place.
happy birthday to you. before inviting the danish prime minister to the chamber, i would remind you, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, that the group chairmen must respect their speaking time, because the more they speak to them, the less the representatives of the groups will speak. the time available to the groups is allocated on the basis of the d'hondt system. it is not the president who decides when this or that group speaks. the more you don't respect the time, the more confusion you create. i therefore urge both the group chairmen and the members to respect the time allocated during the catch-the-eye procedure, because the more we talk, the fewer members speak. (the order of business is as follows.)
the agenda includes a discussion with danish prime minister lars løkke rasmussen on the future of europe (2018/2734 ((rsp)).
thank you for coming, prime minister. it is a pleasure for us to have this debate with you. it is important for us to know the position of your country on the future of the european union. the european parliament wants to be the heart of european democracy. we want to pave the way for a better europe. we need to change this europe, but to destroy this europe would be a big mistake. we are working hard. as you know, the european parliament wants more power. we are the only democratic institution. for us it is important to vote on our budget for 2021-2027 before the european elections. for us it is important to achieve an agreement on the dublin reform. for us it is also important to work on immigration through a strong action plan in africa. on brexit, we will vote on a report – we will be ready by january, but this will probably be held in february or march – on the agreement between the united kingdom and the european union. thank you very much for coming. you have the floor.
i remember i'll be running the catch-the-eye system from then until after prime minister rasmussen's speech, so to record you, you have to press the button.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister rasmussen, commissioner dombrovskis, this is another of the many discussions we have about the future of europe. we obviously appreciate this comparison, we really do. but we should be equally honest and we should say to ourselves and admit that the european union is going through a moment of extreme difficulty, a difficulty which concerns the citizens; i imagine that includes your own citizens, minister. it is particularly the institutions which are neither in good health nor in good repute, and we must ask ourselves what are the real causes of this unfortunate situation. the citizens are in great difficulty. of course, the choices made by europe in recent years - and above all the choices made by the european institutions - have really done irreparable damage to the citizens and to the social fabric of europe. it's years of austerity policies and years of austerity that have caused disasters in the social fabric; economic and fiscal policies have brought not only citizens but also businesses to their knees, and wrong economic policies bring harm and injustice. i sometimes follow the questions we ask ourselves, colleagues, professors, who wonder why there is so much disaffection on the part of citizens towards the institutions; we ask ourselves questions, we ask ourselves questions, we even commission studies to find out what we do not like about europe. in fact, the truth is right in front of our eyes: it is a pity that we have forgotten to confront and talk to the citizens constantly. we are here, and you, above all, are locked in these golden cages, in these golden palaces and do not confront reality; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is as if you were locked in a glass door, where the words of citizens are not heard, but in our states and in our society there are situations of great difficulty and we should go back and talk to them constantly. the citizens want substantial, immediate and radical change and i am taking my country, italy, as an example. we are trying to radically change the reality of our country with reforms that are really made for the people, because the agenda of governments must not be dictated by austerity or budgetary rules or taxation or treaties. the agenda of governments must be dictated by the needs, the wants and the sufferings of the citizens and we are trying to realize the income of citizenship. i think that in all countries you are well aware of this measure, a measure which you already have except italy, which does not yet have it because there has been no way of implementing it. a measure of dignity which can enable citizens to live in decent conditions and to return to the workforce, as well as young people and this is a fundamental measure. we 're trying to reform pensions: the reform of pensions, which was carried out by the previous government in a substantial and equitable manner, with devastating results for all citizens and for the italian social fabric, was really imposed on us by europe. we have created the exodus, we have created a social chasm and disaster. today we are trying to put our hand to this reform, which was imposed by europe and carried out in a very proactive way by the previous government, but which was, by the way, sent home precisely on the basis of the disastrous reforms it has carried out in recent years, and we are trying to give dignity to it with the pension reform. we have created a fund for bank fraudsters, because previous governments, with the money of the citizens, rescued private banks and there are citizens who were left on the brick: have had their current accounts reset to zero; we must now work to give support to citizens who have been defrauded. we are confident that these are changes which will be accepted because only through these substantial changes will europe be able to start over and rebuild on its foundations. we believe deeply in europe and we want to remain in europe, but on sustainable and substantial terms, changed for our citizens. we want a union which is not only a union in name but also in fact: a union rooted in the needs and requirements of its citizens. we have appreciated, for example, yesterday's vote against the inclusion of the fiscal compact in the treaties: it's the key. this is a very bad agreement and the fact that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has said such an uncompromising no - and we are absolutely in favour of this move - is proof that austerity policies are failing and must be reversed. i think that's the change that the citizens are asking us for: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the winds of change that are blowing not only in italy but also in europe will certainly bring about substantial changes next year, and perhaps next year it will be even more interesting to sit here and talk about the future of europe, when there will be different conditions, a different basis, made up of real needs and a political agenda and really reforms dictated on the basis of the needs and needs of the citizens.
everyone in this house is free to say what he thinks. i hope his prophecies don't come true because if they do, we'll all go down. but i don't think we're going to sink, and i hope we all live a long time.
thank you very much, prime minister rasmussen. thank you for your participation in this very important debate on the future of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner šefčovič and commissioner cañete for the proposal published today, which sets out the strategy for a zero-emission europe by 2050. so, as you have heard, there are those in this house who think that your proposal, on one side of the house, is not ambitious, and those who think that it is a proposal that goes a long way. so, clearly you've hit the target: you have set a path for this europe to continue to be a leader on the international stage and to lead the fight against climate change. we have done so since paris and we are continuing to do so. as you all know, we have had several adverse events on the european continent this year - events triggered by climate change - that have also led to the deaths of hundreds of people. it is clear that this must be a stimulus to action, to do more, especially to save the most sensitive areas. we must protect our environment, on the one hand, and of course reduce the increase in temperature; but on the other hand, we have to be very careful about what the economic system is, because we don't have to go too far where we can't go. i believe that the strategy you have outlined is a balanced strategy that can achieve the 2050 targets but that can certainly help the growth of a green and sustainable economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very proud as a european citizen to receive this communication. it's an important signal and it is if it is the first signatory of paris to give itself a clear goal for a net-zero emissions economy by 2050. in fact, the effects of climate instability, long predicted by science, are now a daily chronicle, delineating what is our new everyday life. i am also pleased to note a change in terminology, since the title of the communication does not mention the word 'growth' but the word 'prosperity': words are important, as is content. however, to avoid more disastrous effects, we know that a more profound paradigm shift is needed. we have entered an era of enormous challenges, where the neoliberal market-based economy is not always able to manage our future. to overcome these challenges, we need strongly expansionary economic policies and the overcoming of austerity, finally paying attention to the balance of natural capital and not just financial balances that have lost sight of what is the thermodynamic balance, which regulates the economy and our existence on earth, thus paying attention to what is the so-called ecological spread. at the same time, it is ineffective to think about leadership in the fight against climate change without considering the effect of trade; the products are not subject to a carbon analysis emitted by the relocation of the production that we import: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the community. and in being responsible and thoughtful leaders, we cannot ignore the needs of developing countries either: we live on the same planet! we must prevent them from making the wrong choices we made in the last century and then we must allow not only people, but above all knowledge to flow freely. we owe a debt to some countries from which we have drawn resources, and it is a debt which we can repay by providing them with the knowledge and technology needed to combat climate change.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for her communication. i think it is important to celebrate 25 years of the single market - which is certainly a success story for europe - but also to start taking a different approach, because it is not all good, and here the good is also highlighted and, above all, we must start to convey the idea that the single market is not just an abstract category but has an impact on the lives of citizens every day: from roaming to digital products, to consumers. i mean, a lot of things that make people's lives better. i think it is important to take stock of this legislative purpose: it is clear that the commission has had many proposals on the table - you have mentioned this, commissioner - and it is also true that many of these proposals have been strongly supported by parliament. among these: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of consumers' data is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. we have certainly wasted time on proposals which were not the best, the package of services. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i am thinking of the e-card which we have stopped in this parliament, although we have found some compromises on the proportionality test and on notifications. but, commissioner, let me say this: there are also proposals that have come too late. you're right, we have a few months ahead of us, but we've had, in the last year alone, major proposals that concern consumer protection, that concern the bundle of goods, that concern the platforms. these proposals with six months more time would certainly have been carried through by this parliament, and instead, unfortunately, we are racing these hours to get things done that are very important for consumers and european citizens. but, mr president, let me say one last thing to the commissioner: i think that the single market will only develop if we also tackle the tax issue, without a tax issue in europe the single market will find it increasingly difficult to move forward. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i think we still have a long way to go on the subject of competition at european level. surely we can make progress. it is clear, however, that we must ensure that there is real competition and fairness at european level, also from a fiscal point of view, because a company that pays little tax in one country risks unfair competition in this sector, as in other sectors, with companies that pay a higher level of taxation. i therefore believe that the single market will have a great future if we accompany the legislative part of strengthening the single market with a strengthening of fiscal policy.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are discussing a lot of issues here, but let me just focus on the world trade organisation (wto) reform and the reports that are in front of us here. you’re absolutely right that there’s a lot to be done. when the wto was created the world looked very different to the one we have today, so it needs to be updated. but it’s also an international organisation with 164 members operating by unanimity. we have difficulties agreeing among 28 countries, but with 164 countries is indeed complicated. nevertheless, it is in urgent need of strengthening, updating and modernisation, to live up to the demands that we face. so it’s far from perfect, but if we did not have the wto we would be much worse off. we would have total anarchy and those who would suffer the most, i have to repeat that, would be the poorest countries. it has been good for them to have these rules, this predictability, to be helped, to be inside the global system with the multilateral rules, and that’s what we need to preserve, strengthen and develop. but there’s so much to do. we need to develop the internal function. here the eu has been in the lead, together with a couple of other countries, to try to emphasise the need for continued transparency and notification. that is key for the wto to function and to have its trust. we need to make sure that the rules that we have agreed upon in the wto are enforced. it is the appellate body, it has served us well in the european union, it has served many other countries well as well, and that’s what the most urgent need is. we have proposed here, with several other countries joining up, a way to come out of that deadlock and i hope this will be discussed in the coming weeks. we do need to address the so-called old issues, the old doha issues, absolutely we need to do so, and we are engaging with other countries to try to see if there’s a way we can break the deadlock here. we need to address new issues. as i said, we are talking about e-commerce and digital trade with many other countries. that is a good thing. furthermore, we are discussing how women can be included in a more systematic way in trade, and we need to discuss, i fully agree with you, how the wto can play a greater role in living up to the sustainable development goals. we need to find ways there where we can work with all the other members and we need of course to make sure that we have modern rules, that the rule book is updated. and here, as i said, we are working with the us and japan, but also with other countries. so we are trying to put forward proposals. we will continue to do so. we will continue to ally with countries across the globe to work on this, but we do need your strong support here, and therefore i really appreciate the reports that we have been discussing, i thank again the two rapporteurs and also for the opinion of the committee on development (deve), i think that is very useful. so thank you very much for this and i think we will see each other again to discuss this further as the issue develops.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un declaration on the rights of persons with disabilities.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report, which is clearly balanced, welcomes serbia's continued commitment to european union integration and asks whether this strategic decision is being actively promoted among the serbian public; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we must take this into account, because it can also play a very important role in relations between europe, the european union and the world that is ruled by moscow. we must not forget the message that president putin sent directly to vučić: the european union must be able to send a rapid reaction force to defend the serbs in kosovo within a few hours. europe is making mountains of paper; putin is reacting. the unresolved problem of kosovo is central. recently, kosovo and serbia have met and talked to try to normalize relations, a step obviously necessary for the purpose of integration into the european union. in september, they came one step closer to signing an agreement and then everything was compromised, despite the agreement to return to kosovo the serbian territories inhabited by ethnic albanian majority people in kosovo and to serbia those kosovar territories inhabited by ethnic serb majority people. at the last minute the agreement was scrapped and the clear risk emerged that the tensions of the last few days, especially those linked to the unconscious introduction of the tariffs, could block or slow down the new attempts at reconciliation between the two states, which we obviously see with great hope and favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the western balkans are facing a major challenge to the future and stability of our entire continent, and we want to play our part in winning that challenge. serbia is a friendly country, close to us geographically but also close to our values, traditions and culture and to the european spirit. i thank the rapporteur for his important efforts and in this report he highlights the progress made by serbia in recent years, including on sensitive issues such as regional cooperation, minority rights, the judiciary and the rule of law. of course, further steps are needed in the fight against corruption, organised crime, media independence: but we are and remain hopeful and optimistic. our vote in favour is intended to highlight the efforts of the serbian people in their path towards membership of the european union, without, however, calling for the distortion of traditional relations between serbia and other partners. we are concerned about the recent tensions with kosovo, but i want to reiterate that there can be no truly united europe without the incidental balkans or serbia. we therefore hope that further negotiating chapters will be opened so that we can soon write together a new important chapter in european history: the target is 2025.
president-in-office of the council. – thank you mr president, honourable members, dear commissioner, dear rapporteur šoltes. let me start by underlining the importance of the stabilisation and association agreement. this agreement offers kosovo an opportunity for sustainable progress and rapprochement with the european union. it is therefore essential for kosovo to continue working on the implementation of the agreement. here we concur with your view that kosovo should pay particular attention to improving the rule of law, including traditional independence and due process of law. kosovo also needs to continue its fight against organised crime and corruption, which should be a clear priority of the authorities. consensus across the political spectrum is key to advancing kosovo's european agenda. we share your view that the assembly is the key forum for legislative work and political dialogue. a strong political will is required from all political actors to move kosovo forward. turning to the eu-facilitated dialogue between belgrade and pristina, we welcome the commitment of both sides to work with the high representative on a comprehensive normalisation of relations, including in the form of a legally binding agreement. we both agree that this is key for their respective european paths and essential for sustainable regional stability. the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo's engagement towards visible and sustainable progress here so that serbia and kosovo can continue on their respective european paths. we stress the importance of regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. we encourage kosovo to continue sustained efforts to strengthen good neighbourly relations and to resolve outstanding bilateral issues. in this context, actions undermining regional cooperation are not helpful. we regret the introduction of tariffs by kosovo on products originating from serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. there is an urgent need for calm and de-escalation in the interests of the whole region and, again, we welcome commissioner hahn’s offer of help to work on rapid and practical solutions for the various trade issues at hand. let me add a few comments on the visa liberalisation process, which as we know is high on the political agenda in kosovo. we join the european parliament in welcoming the ratification by the kosovo assembly of the border boundary agreement with montenegro in march 2018. this fulfilled one of the key criteria for kosovo's visa liberalisation and was an important achievement in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. let me recall here the commission proposal in may 2016 to transfer kosovo to the schengen visa-free list and the commission's report on the fulfilment of the remaining benchmarks in july 2018. we note that the parliament has adopted its mandate and is ready to start negotiating with the council on the proposal to waive visa requirements for kosovo. however, as you are aware, the decision on the commission proposal is currently under consideration in the council. today in our discussions we focus on kosovo's progress in 2017. however, also more generally, i would like to stress that the eu will continue to support kosovo by putting particular emphasis on furthering kosovo’s socio-economic reform agenda, including through financial and technical assistance. economic growth and creating employment is a main concern of its people. let me finally welcome the agreement reached on the extension of the eulex mission and underline the importance of continued close and effective cooperation with eulex.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr šoltes, for the report on kosovo. i believe that it is a balanced report and is in line with the main findings of our 2018 commission report regarding progress and challenges in kosovo. but we cannot hide the fact that today the discussion is overshadowed by what has been happening in recent weeks in kosovo. the recent decisions by the kosovo government to impose a trade tariff increase of up to 100% against serbia and bosnia and herzegovina are very concerning and doing real harm to relations with kosovo and regional cooperation ambitions. as we have said clearly, these decisions are a clear violation of the central european free trade agreement and contrary to the spirit of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. this is why the european union has called on the kosovo government to immediately revoke these decisions. imposing blanket measures is not the appropriate way to address trade concerns. they must be addressed in the appropriate fora. i have already spoken with the prime minister and the president, who agreed on the urgent need to calm and de—escalate, in the interests of the country and the whole region, and offered a rapid and practical solution for the various trade issues at hand between kosovo and serbia. i will also use the opportunity of my planned visit to pristina next week to help find a way out of this crisis. but now let me turn back briefly to the assessment in our 2018 report on kosovo. as already noted also in parliament’s report, the picture is a mixed one. we underline progress in certain areas, such as on the investment climate. we also welcome the ratification by the kosovo assembly of the agreement on border demarcation with montenegro last march, which was an important breakthrough. however, our overall conclusion is that kosovo’s pace of eu—related reforms is too slow. this is partly due to a very high political polarisation and the fact that the assembly has not been functioning as it should. unfortunately, these conclusions are still valid today. we therefore expect all political actors to increase efforts to build consensus on strategic issues for kosovo, in particular eu—related priority reforms and on the dialogue with serbia. let me now turn to visa liberalisation, which is of particular importance to kosovo’s citizens. kosovo has worked hard in recent years to meet its visa liberalisation roadmap criteria. last july, the commission confirmed that kosovo had fulfilled all outstanding criteria. we continue to stand by our assessment that all benchmarks have been met and continue to be met. i welcome parliament’s clear support for the commission’s proposal on visa liberalisation. your report also – rightly so – insists that the authorities in kosovo demonstrate sustained efforts in the fight against organised crime and corruption. the ball is now in the council’s court. i hope that the council will demonstrate that when our partners deliver, the eu delivers too. in that respect i would like to thank the austrian presidency for its efforts to put this on the agenda and to try to start negotiations on this subject. the commission remains committed to kosovo and to giving kosovo a real european perspective. we will continue to support kosovo in its reform processes in important areas such as the rule of law, public administration, the economy and education. however, we need to see a clear commitment from kosovo’s leaders to focus their attention on measures that will bring kosovo closer to europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the comprehensive and inclusive text that has been produced. the report highlights progress but also points out what remains to be done, particularly in the areas of public administration, the judiciary and the fight against crime. furthermore, on the issue of human rights, we call for greater integration of gender policies, protection of minorities, especially roma and ashkali, and discrimination against lgbt people. while stressing, as the commissioner has done, the problematic nature of the tax choices made recently by kosovo, i would remind you that in july the european commission stated that kosovo had finally fulfilled all the necessary conditions for visa liberalisation. after the european parliament has voted, the council must now take the decision. the european union is also committed to the development of a regional policy in the region, which is a key element in the process of stabilisation, integration and cooperation with this geographically vital region for the european union. finally, it is important for the normalisation of relations with serbia that the five european countries which have not yet done so recognise kosovo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report balances the small progress and the various challenges that kosovo still faces and which will mark the pace of its progress towards european integration. a long and difficult path, requiring constant commitment, determination and patience to achieve the reforms that the country urgently needs. this is the sense in which mr šoltes' report should be read, and i thank him for it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the bilateral relations with serbia are undoubtedly of paramount importance and must be based on close, reliable and transparent dialogue and on a binding and comprehensive normalisation agreement agreed by both countries. i therefore call on the kosovar authorities not to take any hasty decisions which would jeopardise regional cooperation efforts. i am referring in particular to the recent imposition of duties on goods imported from serbia which violate the free trade rules in the cefta agreement. once again, dialogue must play a leading role in solving the problems in the western balkans.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after long and difficult negotiations, the agreement reached on sunday sets the basis for an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, and we are ready to ratify it. on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to thank michel barnier for the outstanding work he and his team have done in dealing with this historic challenge. at the same time, i cannot hide my profound sadness about the uk’s choice to leave the union. our group respects this decision, but we deeply regret it. we consider it an historic mistake. in our eyes, it will always be a lose—lose situation. despite the disappointment and the frustration, the eu – and all of us – have acted, since the very beginning of the process, with responsibility and respect. we have worked tirelessly for more than two years to protect those most affected by the decision and to alleviate its worst possible consequences. this was achieved thanks to the guidance of our lead negotiators and thanks to the unity within, and between, the eu institutions. i would also like to thank guy verhofstadt and all the members of the brexit steering group. we have been – and we shall be – always united. the eu has been responsible towards the uk by providing the basis to deliver an orderly withdrawal without any feelings of revenge or resentment. we have also been responsible towards ourselves and our citizens not to endanger the european project and the integrity of our union. this sense of responsibility shall continue to guide us going forward. one thing must be clear, though. there is no alternative deal to the one agreed on sunday. considering the united kingdom’s red lines, this is the best, and the only possible, agreement. it is a deal that protects citizens’ rights, safeguards the integrity of the single market and the customs union and, crucially, prevents a hard border on the island of ireland, respecting the good friday agreement in all its parts. we know that on citizens’ rights, which have been our priority from the start, our work is far from being finished and we will remain vigilant with respect to the implementation of this part of the agreement. we will never allow eu citizens to fall victim to the same disgraceful hostile—environment policies that saw members of the windrush generation wrongly deported. the political declaration accompanying the withdrawal agreement establishes the framework and basis for an ambitious, broad and deep partnership. this unprecedented partnership, which should take the form of an association agreement, shall fully respect the integrity of the single market and the autonomy of our legal order. we also welcome all the interpretative declarations adopted by the council and consider them legally binding, including with regard to gibraltar. on the future relationship, the uk has made its red lines clear throughout the process – just as we have – and we respect this. in the negotiations we have shown a high degree of flexibility and we have stretched the deal as much as we could in order to take into account the position and the constraints of the united kingdom. we have always said – and we repeat it now – that if the uk changes its mind our arms are, and will remain, open. but insofar as you want to leave the single market and no longer apply the principle of free movement of persons, this is the only possible way to leave the european union in an orderly manner, avoiding the severe disruption of a no—deal scenario. there is no other deal that could respect such limits without compromising or endangering our european project. this parliament is the very symbol of our common project and of the links between countries and people. this is why we will continue to play a responsible and proactive role in safeguarding the integrity of the union and ensuring a positive future relationship with the united kingdom. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president mogherini said a short while ago that the global compact has no legally binding impact on countries. so i wonder if there will be a big conference in marrakesh on 10 and 11 december to discuss this. the truth is that on immigration - the great failure of european policies in recent years - a cultural and political game is being played with the global compact and it is absolutely right that we do not sign and participate in an initiative in which uncertainty is absolute and above all we are trying exclusively to put in place a targeted political action to be able to continue on a wrong path. i have heard several colleagues speak of italy's withdrawal: italy has been discussing the global compact for a few days thanks to the action of giorgia meloni of fratelli d'italia, who has been inserted into a government in which the situation is unclear: salvini said not to go and not to participate in marrakech; the count, the president of the council, said otherwise. we'll see what happens. we will work decisively to ensure that italy does not participate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not quoting salvini, i am quoting pope francis, who warned europe in the chamber of the european parliament, saying: "if it is able to clearly express its cultural identity and defend, in addition to the right to welcome, the rights of citizens, helping these peoples in their own country". apart from president tajani's appeals for a marshall plan, which seem to fall on deaf ears, europe has not responded to this plan. the word identity doesn't exist in this text: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we should be inspired by the teachings of those who have a certain idea of europe, such as pope francis. if pope francis had written it, i would have signed it right away. i believe that this is also the attitude of the italian government, which is not insensitive to the rights of those fleeing persecution, etc., but which intends to put an end to the obscene trade in migrants who only serve ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be in marrakesh with the parliament's delegation. the global compact provides a global perspective on migration, building on our work started with the resolution on the holistic approach to migration. too many member states have decided to sabotage the intergovernmental conference: i say to these countries, especially to my own, italy: go to it! orban, salvini and all the leaders of the countries that have decided to take this step: go to marrakech, come with me, come with us! opposing the global compact means not only opposing solutions for safer and more regular migration, but much worse: the european parliament has a duty to protect the dignity and human rights of migrants. don't be left out of the story: that's the story! and immigration is not going to stop. the immigration continues. we need to be responsible in addressing the root causes of immigration. the hypocrisy of the italian government is once again on display, which preaches the responsibility of tackling the migration phenomenon in a spirit of solidarity and then opposes some of the proposals (the president interrupts the speaker).
in writing. all persons with disabilities must have the opportunity to fully enjoy their rights on the basis of inclusion and full participation in society. the social and economic participation of women with disabilities is essential for the success of europe's overall economic and social strategy. they should be guaranteed the full enjoyment of their rights to quality, accessible and affordable education, health care, including transgender-specific health care and sexual and reproductive health and rights, employment, mobility, family life, physical autonomy, sexuality and marriage, and the safeguards that guarantee those rights. i call on the commission to present a proposal for a european disability strategy 2020-2030 that fully integrates the provisions of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities into future eu legislation, policies and programmes and is consistent with the un convention on the rights of the child and the strategic commitment to gender equality 2016-2019 in order to ensure that women and girls with disabilities can fully enjoy their rights like any other person.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 29 november 2018.
ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which was adopted in paris on 10 december 1948. the declaration marked a turning point in human history, introducing principles and rights that are today's unwavering benchmarks. the declaration inspired our founding fathers, who had experienced the atrocities and the abyss to which contempt for human rights leads. our europe is founded on respect for the freedom and dignity of the individual, and it is the guarantor of liberal democracy and the rule of law. these values are the essence of our european identity and have guaranteed 70 years of peace and mutual respect. the european parliament has always been at the forefront of defending these values. for thirty years, this parliament has paid tribute to and supported those who have fought for human rights, often at great cost. five sakharov prize winners have also received the nobel peace prize and just today in oslo denis mukwege and nadia murad received this prestigious award. they deserve our congratulations. i also want to express our condolences on the death of lyudmila alexeyeva, a pioneer of the human rights movement in the former soviet union. this parliament awarded her the sakharov prize in 2009 as a member of the memorial association. i recall that on wednesday, in this house, we will be awarding the 2019 sakharov prize to the ukrainian filmmaker oleg sentsov, a symbol of the struggle for the rights of political prisoners around the world. but today i also want to remember the first sentinels of human rights, journalists, who risk their lives for our freedom all over the world. my thoughts go out to daphne caruana galizia, ján kuciak and jamal khashoggi, who were killed in their search for the truth, but also to all journalists who are unjustly imprisoned around the world. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 6 december 2018. the following amendments were tabled: mondaythe enf group asked that the council and commission statements on eu trademarks and companies owned by non-european companies be added to the agenda as the first item. the reference is to pernigotti 1860.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a well-known matter, and it has been discussed by various members from various groups. it is a question which is becoming an annual one for our country because from oil to sugar to cheese, the list of italian historical labels, especially food labels, which are sold abroad and used to convey, under the tricolor flag, products often made far away, is now very long. in addition, in the case of pernigotti gianduiotti chocolate and chocolates, i would also like to thank the president, who has personally fought this just battle in defence not only of the workers - there is a great question concerning the workers - but also of the consumers, because we must not forget that the production that takes place in piedmont protects the consumers in terms of genuineness and integrity, while the same cannot be said of the hazelnuts grown in turkey. for this reason i believe that europe, which has so far only made its voice heard through the president of this parliament - and i thank him for that - is finally willing, and this debate will serve that purpose, to make its voice heard and to put strong pressure on turkey and turkish property, also in view of the inconsistent results of the pressure which has been exerted, even rightly, by the italian government up to now. i remember we asked for a roll call vote.
since you have mentioned my interest, i would like to inform the house that i have visited the premises of this factory, which is located in a small town in piedmont. i met with the trade unions, i met with the workers, and then i tried to get information from the turkish government about the real intentions of turkish property to relocate food production. i have received some interlocutory replies, and i know that there have been meetings with the italian government: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i have tabled a question on the same subject with other colleagues who will be signing it, to unite the question with the debate. in that case we would vote in favour.
mr borghezio, are you in favour of mr bresso's proposal, that is to say, to include the parliamentary question put by mr bresso's group in the proposal put forward by your group? (parliament adopted the resolution) (parliament rejected the request by the enf group) on tuesday i received a request from the gue/ngl group to postpone the vote on the report by mr aguilar on the revision of the visa code to a later part-session. if the above request fails to find a majority, the gue group requests that a discussion of this report be added on monday as a last item before the brief presentations.
i put to the vote first the request to postpone the vote on the lópez aguilar report. then, if it is not approved, we will move on to the second vote and have a debate on monday, as a last point before the short presentations. (parliament rejected the request for an amendment) wednesday
yes, you are right. we'll be back on tuesday. the s&d group has called for a commission statement on the adequacy of the protection of personal data offered by japan to be added to the joint debate on the eu-japan partnership agreement. this point should be closed with a resolution.
i didn't ask your opinion on the subject in general. i asked if there were any who were against the proposal of the socialist group, it is not a question of starting a debate. you said you were against it. we're going to vote directly.
i made that very clear before. it was an answer that had nothing to do with the vote against.
the gue/ngl group also asked for a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the ruling of the european court of human rights in the selahattin demirtas case to be added as the third item for tuesday afternoon after the joint debate on the eu-japan partnership agreement.
i am not going to go into the details of the amendments. the green group has called for the debate on the council and commission statements on conflict of interest and the protection of the eu budget in the czech republic to be concluded with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
the ecr group asked that the statements by the council and the commission on the crisis of democracy in france be added as a second item on wednesday afternoon after the debate on topical and urgent subjects. the debate should conclude with a resolution to be voted on thursday.
let us now move on to thursday. thursdaythe gue/ngl group asked for the oral question on serious infringements in the transport of animals to third countries to be added as the third item on the agenda for this afternoon.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the only programme specifically devoted to the environment and climate action, life remains the european union's main financial instrument for achieving environmental objectives. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). life plays a key role in the conservation of ecosystems, especially in relation to the birds and habitats directives and through the management of natura 2000. biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are essential elements for growth, employment and the economy. it is therefore important to ensure, as my amendments indicate, clear, quantifiable and measurable objectives with result indicators, monitoring tools and audit and reporting mechanisms. the decarbonisation target of the paris agreement requires a rapid shift to a clean, low-emission energy strategy. a considerable share of the increase for the life programme was therefore allocated to the clean energy transition sub-programme. in order to avoid overlaps with other programmes, it should be emphasised that life expenditure should only be used to promote the development and dissemination of projects on renewable energy and energy efficiency. i believe it is essential to recognise the importance of integrated projects as catalysts for the implementation of environmental or climate plans and strategies at regional, national or multi-regional level. in the future, however, the scope and number of such projects will need to be broadened, but they will be selected on the basis of merit. each life project must also be accompanied by a communication strategy to reach the target groups more effectively, deliver key messages more closely linked to the objectives and ensure better structured coordination between the different actors. among the novelties of the life programme, i welcome the introduction of the sub-programme 'circular economy and quality of life' to support the other aspects of union environment policy, in particular the transition to a circular economy, the sound and efficient management of natural resources and the promotion of good environmental governance.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that europe has done well, it is the life programme. since 1992, life has co-financed over 4 500 projects, including 828 italian projects, with a contribution of eur 620 million. these projects have helped, for example, to introduce european citizens to the natura 2000 network and to protect biodiversity, which is still in a continuous and dangerous decline in europe today. these projects have also helped to reduce environmental pollution and combat climate change. a europe which, when it wants to, is able to serve its citizens and the common good. the life programme is therefore strategic for italy and the european union and its continuation should therefore be supported. in the next seven years 2021-2027, life will continue to support innovative actions to protect the environment and climate, actions to be replicated on a large scale, to facilitate the transition to a climate resilient society, based on the circular economy and renewable energies, the very society that we must try to defend today in katowice, poland, during cop 24. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i particularly appreciated that you identified the fight against the degradation of ecosystems and the need to minimise the adverse effects of chemicals as additional objectives of the programme. finally, i agree with the choice to evaluate projects mainly on the basis of quality criteria and to allocate more resources to the sub-programmes 'nature and biodiversity' and 'circular economy and quality of life'. i hope that the epp amendment which has been tabled will not pass, because i think and believe that it opens the door to further damage to biodiversity, in particular to large carnivores, because we know very well what management of carnivores and large carnivores, i.e. hunting, means, and i also hope that the ambition expressed by parliament can be maintained, especially in the negotiations with the council.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr rolin, with the agreement at first reading tomorrow we will also be closing the second part of the revision of this very important directive on the protection of workers against the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work. once again this parliament has been able to be swift and ambitious, always guaranteeing the maximum protection of workers, helping small and micro-enterprises which, alas, often have limited financial, technical and human resources to comply with the obligations imposed by this directive. i am also pleased that, in addition to the carcinogens originally included in the proposal, limit values have also been included for diesel exhaust emissions and that a formal commitment has been made to assess the inclusion of reprotoxic substances by the first quarter of 2019. i therefore warmly thank mr rolin, the rapporteur, and the other colleagues with whom we have been working on the revision of this directive for over a year now, and i hope that the third and final part will also be kept in line with the same balance and the same ambition as has been shown so far.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is very important to vote on this proposal on the transparency of the food safety system because if we do not do so now, the industry will have once again achieved its objective of postponing this process in order to have the freedom to take decisions which affect the lives of millions of citizens of the european union behind closed doors. we must remember that in the name of industrial secrecy, gmos, pesticides and materials in contact with foodstuffs, the greatest mischief has been done in this house, as in the case of glyphosate and the monsanto papers scandal. and if not, why does the industry want to block access to scientific publications, which are public by definition, that are used in the risk assessment process at all costs? if it's not to condition that same evaluation process, then why? you want the authorization? well, these are the rules, you have to provide all the information that concerns the public interest, because the right to health comes before everything else.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european food sector has been through several crises over the last 15 years. i remember how in the early 2000s we went from fear of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, more commonly known as mad cow disease, to fear of foot and mouth disease or fear of chicken pox. we have recently come to know how large global companies have for a long time been using pesticides or fertilizers that are potentially harmful to the health of consumers. european citizens are becoming increasingly aware that every aspect of the agri-food chain must be controlled and made transparent, with constant access to product information. for this reason i welcome the proactive spirit shown by the commission and the european parliament in amending the regulations on the transparency and sustainability of the risk assessment process in the food chain. the proposal follows the european citizens' initiative and in particular the concerns expressed by the initiatives regarding the transparency of scientific studies used to evaluate pesticides. the opportunity to obtain information on the preliminary stages of the process and the advantage of being able to contribute to the study of risks will certainly benefit the whole european food sector. i am glad that the good examples of italy in the field of control and transparency have been put to good use. my hope is that this does not remain an isolated case. i hope that the implementation of the regulations will make it possible to achieve real transparency in favour of consumer choices, also with regard to the origin and traceability of food products, indicating the ingredients used in all food without any downward compromises, so that de facto fraud is prevented and informed purchasing choices are encouraged for european consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all let me thank mrs sommer for her excellent work. i am convinced that action is needed to ensure greater transparency throughout the evaluation process by efsa and above all to improve public confidence in the credibility of scientific studies, which has been repeatedly challenged, in particular in the case of the authorisation of giphosate. i would like to stress the importance of risk management in the use of substances and the need, therefore, for high scientific quality and for controls and audits in relation to the studies used. efsa is playing a very delicate role with great professionalism and competence, but in some cases methodologies have been used which need to be improved, as i have had the opportunity to stress on several occasions. i refer to the case of anthraquinones, where, in order to demonstrate the relative dangers, analyses and studies have been carried out on similar substances and not on the substances which would be banned. we also changed the structure of the management board, with two representatives of parliament instead of one, and expanded the list of representatives of industry and civil society to include experts in public health, the agrochemical industry and the food industry. finally, it is important to underline the critical point of the proposal, which refers to the timing of the publication of the information and the basic studies of the applications addressed to efsa. i fully agree with the rapporteur on this point, so as not to sell out our industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food safety in the products circulating in the european union is a precious asset, a conquest of civilization. we cannot afford another case like that of glyphosate, which undermines the entire authorization system of the european union: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. clear and strong rules are needed to end the secrecy of industry studies used to support the safety of pesticides, gmos, food contact materials and other products related to our food. the scientific assessment of the potential impact of pesticides and other products should not be a private matter between scientists in the european union and the producers. we must act responsibly, ensuring that citizens have access to information, that all relevant information is published on request and that there are clear limits on the grounds for keeping certain information confidential. studies should be published as soon as they are submitted, to allow for a thorough consultation during the evaluation process.
member of the commission. – madam president, military mobility is a key issue within the security and defence agenda that the european union is pursuing in the wake of the global strategy. it will enable europe to respond faster to crises and increase its resilience to external threats. military mobility is a topic where the union fosters civilian-military cooperation and creates dual-use opportunities. it is supported through other defence initiatives, notably the permanent structured cooperation (pesco), and it contributes to enhanced cooperation with nato. as the resolution also highlights, improving military mobility will also contribute to strengthening europe’s strategic autonomy. this european parliament resolution on military mobility rightly addresses the topic in a comprehensive manner, providing advice on all relevant areas of work in this context. improving military mobility is an important priority for which the union can help provide solutions, taking into account the needs expressed by the member states and in full respect of their sovereignty. this was at the core of the eu action plan submitted by the high representative and the commission in march this year. together with our member states, work is advancing at different levels in a coordinated way. the council conclusions of 19 november on security and defence in the context of the european union’s global strategy made a substantive advancement in implementation of the action plan, with the approval of the finalised military requirements for military mobility within and beyond the european union. the eu action plan sets out the actions by all relevant eu players involved in the following key areas: transport infrastructure, regulatory and procedural issues related to customs, cross-border procedures, diplomatic clearance and others, and cross-cutting issues like countering hybrid threats. furthermore, the commission has proposed a budget of eur 6.5 billion under the next multiannual financial framework to support dual-use infrastructural projects using the connecting europe facility. as set out in the resolution, the aim of this initiative is to improve the mobility of military forces within and beyond the eu, hence enabling the eu and its member states to act faster, in line with their defence needs and responsibilities, both in the context of common security and defence policy missions and operations, as well as national and multinational activities, in particular in the framework of nato. building on civilian-military synergies, this initiative will bring better infrastructure, more efficient procedures, and safer transport across the union. it will thus help overcome existing difficulties and limitations on the mobility of our forces, removing delays and disruptions, lowering costs and eliminating vulnerabilities across our union. the european parliament resolution rightly acknowledges the principles that inform these actions: respecting the sovereignty of member states, calling for a whole-of-government approach, coordinating at the european level and with member states, including in the context of the permanent structured cooperation, and seeking further cooperation with nato on military mobility, to be pursued in the framework of the joint declarations. i warmly welcome the support of parliament, in particular as regards the establishment of the mechanism for co-funding of dual-use infrastructure projects within the new connecting europe facility regulation. this will call for close work between the eu and member states in order to help respond to military needs by supporting civilian users. the european union and its member states are making real progress in the area of military mobility, a good example of fruitful interaction between national actions and commitments, and eu level action and support. keeping the momentum and delivering results will be key for the coming months and even years. thank you for all this work, and thanks for your attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. i must say that i entirely agree with the indications given in this report. it is absolutely urgent that europe adopt a shared educational strategy to prepare students but also adults, in the logic of lifelong learning for the new digital environment. the acceleration of the transformations that digital technology is bringing about in the professions but also in everyday life, in the increasing modification of all jobs, makes it absolutely essential to adapt educational systems not only, i agree, to the use of digital technologies, but also in terms of teaching methodology, educational research, digital skills and teacher training. it can be a great opportunity to rethink the role of education, adapting the skills of individuals and different social groups, as a true right of citizenship. this european strategy is urgently needed at this point, through the action plan for digital education but also by overcoming the current fragmentation. i particularly share the view that there is a need today for a suitable module, such as the pisa system, which can introduce mutual recognition of digital skills between the various countries in order to avoid a deepening digital divide.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr grammatikakis, for his excellent report and i am very pleased that, eleven years after the previous european agenda for culture, the commission (i thank the commissioner for that) has proposed a new strategy, i would say a strategy, at last, of cultural policy which overcomes a situation of great fragmentation. i must say that, for a legislature which started with the word culture not being included in juncker's ten priorities, thanks to the joint work between us and the dg for culture and education, we have made a difference. parliament has made a difference and so has our committee. in the meantime, we are faced with an agenda which sums up, at the end of the european year of cultural heritage, and thus, lending a hand to the legacy of the year, sums up the three or four main lines on which european cultural policy will have to move: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 13 and 14 december 2018 (2018/2871 ((rsp)).
mr president of the european commission, the european parliament is absolutely on the same page on the brexit issue. the unity of the european union, its institutions and the 27 member states is important to us all, and i will reiterate this position at the european council. it is all right to speak, it is all right to receive and to meet mrs may, but we cannot change a position that has already been taken.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here at the dawn of a european council with a very busy agenda, in a very united europe. why would you do that? first, i refer to macroeconomic governance, which is still inexplicably stuck on the austerity paradigm. it's nice to hear about growth from people who, perhaps, have been on another planet in the last few years. it is a paradigm that has been declared wrong even by the international monetary fund. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. the first item on the agenda is the new multiannual financial framework. to show that something is moving, that europe is useful for the well-being of its citizens, we need to show more courage in investing in training, youth policies, more erasmus+, more cohesion policies, so that we can really achieve growth and equal opportunities in our countries. that is what the citizens of europe are asking for. this is what the squares of europe are asking and will ask, which are reminding you of jefferson's aphorism, forgotten by many: "it is not the people who should fear their governments, but the governments who should fear their people".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the european council is taking place at a time when europe is experiencing strong political, social and economic tensions, and some are even calling into question our democratic model, taking advantage of the enormous difficulties caused by the crisis. the european response cannot therefore be weak, and that is why the european parliament, as you know, has taken a clear position on the multiannual financial framework, rejecting compromises which are not in line with the needs and requirements of our citizens. we need adequate resources for workers and smes, for students, for research, we need resources for traditional functions and resources for those linked to the future. we also need resources for a euro-zone budget. it was also recalled that it is not enough to have a backstop for banks: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us remember that the citizens also want guarantees. the safety net must not only serve britain or the banks, it must also serve the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in one of my first speeches on brexit, almost two years ago, in the aftermath of the british referendum, i said that europe would be the party responsible for this divorce. since then, everything has happened: the deal has not satisfied hard brexit supporters, who may have thought they were negotiating without a counterparty, several ministers have resigned to resume campaigning, the bank of england is predicting catastrophic scenarios and yesterday prime minister theresa may postponed the vote to avoid the fall of her government. it is not possible to predict how this will end, but i think we should also prepare for the worst case scenario, no deal, the most catastrophic for the united kingdom. but i still hope for a miraculous awakening, that the current leadership team will say "we made a mistake, for the sake of our people let's take a step back". that would be statistical.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the eurogroup meeting and the preparation of the euro summit (2018/2972 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, at the june euro summit, leaders gave a mandate to the eurogroup to work further on deepening emu issues. leaders considered that co-legislators should be able to agree on the banking package before the end of the year, which we managed to do. i would like to thank the european parliament again for the excellent cooperation. at its meeting after 3 december, the eurogroup, in an inclusive format – so with 27 member states – also made significant and concrete progress. it is not up to the council to deliberate on the eurogroup agreements, so i will limit myself to presenting the highlights of this agreement to you. the eurogroup concluded on the two concrete deliverables that leaders had requested from by december: the term sheet on the european stability mechanism (esm) common backstop to the single resolution fund (srf), and the terms of reference on esm reforms. the common backstop to srf is an important building block of a completed banking union, as is of course the co-legislators’ agreement on the banking package. the agreement on esm reform will contribute to a more resilient emu. first, it provides for more effective use of the esm’s precautionary credit lines. second, an enhanced role for the esm could make the euro area’s capacity to act less dependent on third parties, while respecting the prerogatives of the commission. third, the debt sustainability approach will ensure that taxpayers in creditor and beneficiary countries do not have to shoulder a public debt that is assessed to be unsustainable in the context adjustment programmes. in its report to leaders, the eurogroup also suggested a way forward on other dossiers such as liquidity in resolution, a european deposit insurance scheme (edis), and the euro area’s fiscal capacity. as far as the euro area budget is concerned, there was a readiness to continue working on instruments for promoting convergence and competitiveness. there was no common view on the need to pursue stabilisation instruments. it’s now up to leaders at the euro summit later this week to provide guidance as appropriate.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i am glad to be here for this timely debate. the european parliament has rightfully been a central driving force behind the debate on deepening our economic and monetary union. this is a decisive moment on what has been a challenging path, and the strong support of this house is more important than ever. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank you for that. last week the eurogroup agreed on a number of steps. they were perhaps not giant but, nonetheless, important. the discussion was far from easy, but the results show the willingness around the table to find workable solutions on our common challenges. we made progress on many issues discussed, in particular the terms of reference for the common backstop for the single resolution fund and the reform of the european stability mechanism. as regards budgetary instruments for the euro area, further guidance from the euro summit will be needed. for the upcoming euro summit, we must build a momentum, as we urgently need to press ahead with ambitious reforms. on the backstop for the single resolution fund, we need a credible, fast and efficient system of decision-making. the esm commission cooperation should stay within the boundaries of primary and secondary law. also, we have to make sure that the conditions of esm instruments are not too strict to make them usable. eventually, the esm will need to be brought into the union framework to increase democratic scrutiny, most importantly by closer involvement of the european parliament. we also see reasonable steps to promote the existing framework of the debt sustainability in the euro area. now let me turn to the budgetary instruments for the euro area. i welcome the openness of the eurogroup to work on budgetary instruments for competitiveness and convergence, subject to further guidance by leaders. unfortunately, the eurogroup has shown less consensus on instruments for stabilisation, which are also essential. we therefore hope for further progress, guidance and also more ownership at the euro summit. the commission’s proposals for a reform support programme and the euro area fiscal stabilisation function should provide the basis for this discussion, which should take place in the context of the next multiannual financial framework. we can, of course, develop them further, to reconcile our design with the ideas coming from france and germany, but also other member states and the european parliament. parliament can play an important role in designing these budgetary instruments. it is therefore also in your hands to take the proposals further and accelerate work. finally, on the european deposit insurance scheme (edis). this is indeed the most difficult part on which little progress has been made at the eurogroup. as progress has been slow both in the council and parliament, last year the commission set out a workable approach to introduce edis step by step and closely linked with risk reduction. we believe that there has been enough progress on risk reduction to warrant the start of political discussions on at least its first phase. dear colleagues, the commission counts on your continued support. your clear political push will be indispensable to generate the ambition needed. we can build on solid ground on risk reduction; the progress report we published two weeks ago shows that non-performing loans on banks’ balance sheets can continue to decline to an average of 3.4% in the second quarter of this year, a decline of 1.2 percentage points in a single year. mrel buffers are being built up, with about 90% of the required mrel already in place. we welcome the agreement on the banking package and the vote of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) on non-performing loans last week. on that basis, the completion of the banking union, also on the risk-sharing, is a matter of priority. the capital markets union can also strengthen the economic and monetary union by diversifying financing sources of the european economy and promoting private risk-sharing. i call on you to close the many cmu files still before the end of this term. finally, following the commission’s communication, the international role for the euro will also be addressed at the december euro summit. stronger economic and monetary union, as well as deep and liquid capital markets, are prerequisites for a euro that better reflects europe’s political, economic and financial weight. it’s crucial that leaders reach a meaningful agreement this week and that co-legislators agree on pending proposals before the european parliament elections in may this year. as always, the european parliament’s close engagement is key in this process. the months ahead will be decisive for making the euro area economy stronger and more resilient for all europeans.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the next euro summit will be the last opportunity before the european elections to deliver a good reform package to strengthen the economic and monetary union. we regret the lack of a complete outcome regarding the eurozone budget and, in particular, the fact that a common view was not reached on the possible features of a stabilisation function, including the unemployment insurance scheme. what we need here could be termed a ‘people’s backstop’, and that does not feature in the eurogroup’s conclusions. we consider that further progress is needed towards final agreement on a european deposit insurance scheme, and on the eurozone budget, by the end of the european parliament’s current term, including a european stabilisation function, together with a risk-reduction measure. the stabilisation function and the european deposit insurance scheme would reflect the right balance between risk reduction and risk sharing. finally, the euro summit of december is a unique opportunity to make the economic and monetary union stronger and much more resilient in the event of an economic crisis, and you know that we risk facing an economic crisis in the years to come. it is high time to deliver concrete results. this is in the interests of all european citizens and, as i said, we need to give our citizens a real backstop, which is for them and not only for banks or for the state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is saying this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the insistence on keeping the esm intergovernmental, without integrating it into union law, the appearance of numerical indicators for the possibility of accessing the precautionary credit line, which in fact empty the scope of this instrument, because the point here is not conditionality, which is right, but the fact that it is only the european commission, and no one else, that has to ensure compliance with the rules of the stability pact, which are not just numbers. so this text seems to us to be even stricter than articles 3 and 4 of the fiscal compact and needs to be changed. the cooperation agreement between the esm and the commission is also of concern, because it does not clarify their respective competences and foreshadows potential overlaps that could in fact limit the role of the european commission as defined by the treaties. finally, the famous backstop: it is good that there is one, but there is still no agreement on the voting procedure and so it is not clear yet whether it is a backstop or a programme, and its introduction is subject to additional conditionality, which is not clear whether they introduce requirements other than those recently established in the banking package. and of course we're concerned about what's not in the agreement: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposed measures, but it is hoping that the council will take a decision on the matter. that is not how the euro is strengthened and growth and cohesion are promoted. if the european council cannot do better, it is clear that it will be up to the voters to say what kind of europe they want and we socialists and democrats will be at the forefront of our proposals and our battles.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and for this intense debate, which shows the interest of your assembly in these very important subjects. i mean that the european parliament, throughout this mandate, has been a key ally of the commission in the decisive project of deepening economic and monetary union. at a very important moment on what has been a difficult path, your support is more important than ever. the strengthening of our economic and monetary union must remain a top priority. the economic and fiscal situation in the euro area is now positive, but we also know that significant risks remain both inside and outside europe, and this must prompt us to act quickly. we may need these tools, whose sole purpose, i remind you, is to protect europeans. we may need it much sooner than we think, and it would be a mistake to abandon this much-needed reform of the euro area. the euro area is certainly an asset for our economies, we know that, our citizens are attached to it, but we also know that it is incomplete and that, as such, it cannot fulfil all the functions that are expected of it. despite the urgency, i have to admit that the formation of a consensus among member states on these issues seems delicate today. the long, even very long, discussions at the eurogroup last monday show the profound differences that exist between member states on the method, but also on the means, to be used to strengthen the euro area. some member states - and i regret this - have failed to move beyond their national interests to the general european interest. i am aware that the conclusions of this meeting do not live up to your legitimate expectations and, to be quite frank, they do not live up to my expectations either. if i had, and if i have, as you do, a much higher level of ambition, i still want to start with the positive elements that emerged from the meeting of 3 december. first, we must welcome the fact that the eurogroup reached an agreement in time for the summit on 14 december. it must be remembered that this was not a given in advance. the president of the eurogroup, mario centeno, wanted the finance ministers to work methodically, subject by subject, to try to build a roadmap, and here it is. even if it is modest, i hope that it will encourage european leaders to take strong decisions to strengthen economic and monetary union. secondly, the agreement on the safety net for the single resolution fund is crucial. as valdis dombrovskis has just said, this is a necessary and important step towards completing the banking union and the effective protection of european savers' deposits, which we must absolutely guarantee, especially in times of economic crisis, and we know that we must always prepare for the next crisis. finally, our arguments in favour of reforming the european stability mechanism (esm) were heard by the finance ministers. we agreed - it was not easy - on a compromise, following the position that valdis dombrovskis and i had developed with klaus regling. it respects the european treaties while preserving the commission's legal and institutional powers, and it will enable the esm to strengthen its role. that is all for the three positive points and, in all objectivity, i think they should be welcomed by all, because they are pragmatic advances, which we needed. however, on other projects, which are essential, as i said, the member states have not been able to agree and the results are very honestly below our expectations. i am thinking in particular of edis, the deposit insurance scheme. we have agreed to continue the technical work and to appoint a high-level working party, but - you can see my smile right away - when a high-level working party is appointed, there is still a long way to go. the risk reduction effort led by many member states seemed to me to call for much more decisive progress on this front and for a move towards risk sharing. for me, responsibility and solidarity must go hand in hand. and now that the level of risk has clearly decreased in the euro area, solidarity must be given a chance. calls on the member states to agree on a concrete roadmap by friday. we must not stop at his promise. secondly, i am thinking of the creation of a euro-zone budget, and you know that i have been committed to this for years, long before i came here to the european commission, when i was the finance minister of my country. this was a particularly complex point in the negotiations and, in the absence of agreement, we had no choice but to return the ball to the heads of state or government. as the conclusions say, we are waiting for their guidance and it is up to them to decide at the euro summit how we will proceed with our work. and i am counting on them to give the eurogroup a clear and ambitious mandate. we need it because, as inequalities grow between member states, as they grow within them, it is absolutely essential to put in place active tools for convergence and solidarity, once again, between the countries of the euro area. and as such, i also think it is urgent to make progress on the creation of a possible stabilisation function. as the eurogroup conclusions say, no common position could be reached. i admit that. we call for technical work to continue. calls for the continuation not only of technical work but also of political reflection. there is no question of the commission - i tell you - abandoning its proposal, which is still on the table. i hope that the member states will be able to stand together and make concrete progress at the summit on 14 december, on the basis of the eurogroup's proposals. i have spoken on several occasions about a window of opportunity to reform the red zone, but i have to say that this window is closing little by little and that we have no time to waste. the return of economic growth is an opportunity to move forward and we now have the prospect of the european elections. this should encourage member states to act to guarantee stability, to relaunch convergence within the euro area. it is one more way of demonstrating to europeans the usefulness and added value of the european union on subjects which are at the heart of their concerns. it is nothing less, once again, than employment, growth, solidarity, convergence between economies, solidarity between regions. i would also like to make one final observation. it was not in the eurogroup meeting, but i'm doing it for myself, sort of. i note that our proposals to strengthen the democratic functioning and transparency of the euro area are not making progress, to the point that they were not even on the agenda of the meeting. i am thinking of the transformation of the stability mechanism into a kind of european monetary fund, which you support, but which is included in the european institutions and therefore controlled by your parliament. i am thinking of the creation of a euro-zone finance minister who would also be a member of the european commission and who would also be accountable to the european parliament. i know that when there is democratic control, the quality of decisions is of a very different nature. i am very sorry that these proposals are not being taken into account by the member states. i still believe that european citizens have a say in decisions - our greek friends know this - that affect their daily lives, and i also believe that european institutions cannot act without democratic control. for me, it's a real political creed, it's been mine for years, believe me it remains so. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this fight to complete economic and monetary union, your support will be absolutely essential. i am convinced that the support, but also the political pressure, of the european parliament will be able to move the lines in the coming months, the coming years, and this must also be one of the issues at stake in the european elections. i will not be participating, at least not as a candidate, but i encourage the various political groups to focus on this. the european commission is counting on you to be fully involved in this debate. i believe that your voice counts and that you have the capacity to make the peoples of europe aware of the need to complete these reforms and to push european political leaders to take action even more forcefully. this eurogroup meeting was a beginning, a step, but it is certainly not the end of this debate and this fight which i invite you to continue and which i will naturally continue in my place and in my role.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to your remarks. thank you, and i will of course convey them to president centeno. the eurogroup has made significant and concrete progress. as mentioned before, it is not up to the council to deliberate on the eurogroup agreement. the eurogroup has, however, published three documents: first, the draft report to leaders on economic and monetary union (emu) deepening; second, the term sheet on the european stability mechanism (esm) reform; and third, terms of reference for the common backstop to the single resolution fund. all these documents provide relevant details of this agreement. the euro summit will now provide guidance on the proposed measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make a brief statement to this house, which a few weeks ago adopted a resolution against the emergence of neo-fascist violence, also in the wake of the events in bari on 21 september. today, 28 members of casapound were investigated, casapound's bari office was closed and placed under lockdown. i think that is very good news for this house. i thank my colleagues ana miranda, soraya post and cecilia wikström, who worked with me on the drafting of this resolution, and the house for adopting it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to say that unfortunately, at dawn this morning, rome woke up in a black cloud due to a fire that broke out in a waste treatment plant. this is something that we are very concerned about, because it has to do with the health of the citizens, it has to do with the health of the environment. as a precaution, we are asking all citizens to remain in their homes, to keep children out of the yards and schools, but you understand that, despite the fact that the control booth was immediately activated with the civil protection and fire brigades, we would also like to ask europe, including commissioner vella, to ensure that not only this emergency situation is respected but also the whole waste disposal cycle, that this is done regularly and with absolute protection of health and the environment.
as a roman citizen, i share the call and, above all, i hope that the competent local, regional and national authorities will do everything in their power to deal with the emergency and i thank the civil protection and fire brigades for their rapid intervention in this situation so serious for my city.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask for an explanation as to why president tajani, after months, has still not responded to the question of his interference in the dismissal of two assistants. there are problems in parliament about the dismissal of lazy assistants! i have not received any reply for months, and i am urgently asking for an answer.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
i am convinced that the text strikes the right balance between the necessary countermeasures and the full protection of the fundamental rights on which our model of society is based. the commission has also adopted a number of recommendations aimed at prevention, such as combating the spread of terrorist content online, and funding is one of the priorities for effective action to combat this phenomenon, which is increasingly fuelled by money laundering. the exchange of information and cooperation between the relevant european agencies is essential in this respect. but, beyond the provisions contained in the report, our work over many months has sought to respond to the concerns of european citizens, who ask us for more security, and above all to the victims of the attacks, by asking the commission to propose legislation on the victims of terrorism, which would define their specific situation and rights, and also to create the european centre for the coordination of victims - victims who are all, i always want to remind you, innocent victims of attacks aimed at destabilising our democratic societies. finally, i would like to point out that we did not want to focus exclusively on jihadist terrorism in the report, but we wanted to give our work a wider scope, also addressing the resurgence of other forms of violent extremism, which also pose a risk to civil coexistence. i would like to conclude by thanking the two co-rapporteurs, all the shadow rapporteurs and all the other members of the committee for the enormous amount of work they have done in a spirit of cooperation.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this fairly balanced report has a great merit: the commission's proposal is to list a whole series of points on which the commission's change of position draws attention. it is a great achievement because it says exactly, as if it were a list of indictments, that the commission, in these years, after the events in paris, london and nice - the consequences of which i have personally witnessed - has not given an answer to the tragedy of those people and those victims, if it is true, as it is true that only in this report does one finally begin to write something about the fact that, within the flows of illegal and clandestine immigration, which are encouraged by crime, there may be flows of terrorists. there is a frightening figure, which i have never read in a european act: 30,000 jihadists ready to unleash inside our cities. it is a report which is an indictment of what has not been done, if it is true as it is true that even now, when we want to go to see the wonderful christmas markets in strasbourg, we have to get past well-motivated police checkpoints... they even threaten our markets! there is, however, some element of superficiality: for example, there is no talk, as there should be, about the religious collection circuits in the hawala. it was very well said that we have to insist very much that these hate-mongers operate in mosques, and it took all these years to understand that we need a blacklist? were you asleep while they watched over the lives of our fellow citizens?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the terrorist threat has grown and evolved, and its cross-border nature requires a strong and coordinated response. the first priority must be prevention, recognising the role of the european union and the counter-terrorism measures taken within the framework of the security union. in an area without internal frontiers, european action is crucial to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information between member states and with the european union. i agree with the request to extend the powers of the european public prosecutor's office to combat organised crime and terrorism, but international terrorism must be tackled above all at its sources of funding. all legislative proposals in recent years against money laundering and terrorist financing should be accompanied by targeted and technologically advanced monitoring of financial flows to identify users of e-wallets, virtual currencies and prepaid cards, crowdfunding platforms and online and mobile payment systems in law enforcement investigations.
the agreement reached with japan is good for at least three reasons. first, at the geopolitical level, the union is filling the void left by the united states of trump. we are building a new global trading order based on rules that counteract the negative effects of globalisation. secondly, from an economic point of view, the agreement will support the agricultural sector, which will have full access to the japanese market, with over two hundred protected geographical indications, will help smes to internationalise, will guarantee access to public procurement and will provide for japan's alignment with european standards, the highest in the world. but an agreement, to be good, must also be sustainable, and this agreement is: the agreement commits the parties to implement the paris agreement, ratify the conventions of the international labour organisation and protect forests and animal welfare. trade agreements are a tool, not an end. the aim is to create better conditions for better distributed wealth, well-being for all citizens and social inclusion. this is a good treaty because it aims to meet all these needs.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement with japan is the largest and most ambitious agreement ever signed by the european union, and it is certainly not perfect, but japan is a market full of opportunities for our businesses. until now, these opportunities have been hidden behind a dense jungle of technical and discriminatory barriers, which have penalized european products and investors. and yet, even at the present time, italy exports far more to japan than it imports, especially in the agri-food sector, a situation which can only improve. for example, japanese duties on pasta, wine and cheese will be reduced from 24, 15 and 40 to zero. i got zero! the european parliament has already voted in favour of the report, but it is not yet ready to give its opinion on the proposal. of course, there are also elements that do not convince us: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the provisions on water, financial services and the protection of personal data are not sufficient, but overall the benefits outweigh the risks because, unlike ceta, this agreement does not contain the ics clause, which is a very dangerous mechanism that allows corporations to sue states, and i ask the commission to exclude it in future. in the past we have been accused of being anti-trade non-globalists, but our only interest has always been to defend the citizens. and when we are faced with a good agreement, our vote can only be positive.
in writing. the current security environment in the union has never been more complex, unstable and unpredictable since the cold war, with inter-state conflicts, cyber attacks, terrorism, natural disasters and hybrid wars. too often, member states put their own national interests first, regardless of the possible consequences at european level, and this undermines the coherence and effectiveness of the eu and risks undermining its credibility as a global actor. unfortunately, the tone of the report was too strong and the language used was more than once inclined towards the possibility of forming a european army, something we have always opposed. all these reasons have led me to vote against.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to the high representative. i congratulate mr auštrevičius on this, and i think that since this is the last year we will be discussing the report in this parliament, it is also time to draw up a minimum budget. so maybe we should ask ourselves questions, like: have the human rights situation in the world really improved in recent years? was our action decisive? is there more responsibility on the part of european multinationals? have we improved the overall picture? i don't think he is. we have worked, we have had many hearings, we have made resolutions and we have adopted them by a large majority, we have adopted own-initiative reports by a very large majority, but the commission has not followed up on them with concrete action. so perhaps the overall balance of these years is not a positive balance and we must hope, at this point, that in the future we will be decisive in the facts, the rules, the constraints that we will give for a real respect for human rights in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights'. this is the first article of the universal declaration of human rights, which yesterday celebrated its 70th anniversary. after so many years, these words ring out as an unrealized ideal, accompanied by a general sense of profound injustice. and it's even more true if we look at what happened in 2017. in the face of some isolated progress in this tragic year, the deterioration of democracy and human rights at the global level has been evident. turkey remains the world's largest prison for journalists, with at least 100 behind bars since 2016; in china, one million uighurs are currently being held in re-education camps and subjected to brutal torture. this is just the tip of a much bigger iceberg, and it's clear, painfully clear, that we haven't done enough. i share the approach of mr auštrevičius, whom i thank. the european union, the cradle of human rights, must put human rights at the centre of its relations with third countries, so that the rule of reason finally prevails over the rule of law.
to join our colleagues in their concern, you know that a few moments ago there was a shooting in the city centre and there are probably wounded and dead people. we don't know now, the news is not accurate. i wanted to make you aware of this situation which is affecting the city of strasbourg and probably also our colleagues in the city. of course, if we have any further information, we'll let you know.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2018 at 17.00. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the council is to decide on the budget for the financial year 2019 in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that it is very difficult to speak at the moment with the news coming from a few kilometres away. we have already experienced in this parliament a tragic event like what is happening in brussels these hours, and it is very difficult. i will try to make some very simple reflections, because i do not think it is at all appropriate to let go - even though we are at the end of a long journey, which has lasted a year - i do not think it is at all appropriate to let go of particular excesses. i just want to inform the commission here, the minister and the austrian presidency and this parliament of the conclusions of the work on the 2019 budget. it was a particularly difficult and complicated task, which also involved moments of great tension and which unfortunately we were not able to complete in the time allotted for the first conciliation. there have been some divisions, some very strong divisions, to be honest, not with the austrian presidency, which i thank for the work it has done, but with the council, some divisions have been particularly strong and difficult to heal. i would like to thank the austrian presidency for the work it has done and, in particular, minister loger for the enormous personal effort he has put into it over the past few months, and i would also like to thank the commission for the work it has done and for the continuous and successful attempt to help the council and parliament to find the best possible solution. i simply want to say that i believe that the budget we are voting on tomorrow and presenting to the citizens of europe can be a source of pride for this parliament, because it restores all the answers and priorities we had identified, both on research and on young people, on the environment, on combating climate change, on migration and on a proper migration phase, to the priorities that parliament had set itself in march of this year and then in july. these are very important figures, which bring us close to a recovery of one billion euros for the next year: i think that's a success. i cannot, however, fail to mention, and i repeat this at the end of my speech, the difficulties we have had with the council. these difficulties, i repeat, are not due to the management of the presidency, but to a mechanism within the council itself which prevents the presidency in office from having relations with this parliament on budgetary matters, open, proactive relations which are truly investments in the future of europe. we need a council which can free itself from the constraints which enclose it and from the too many veils which are there. this parliament has been ready - even for the innovations introduced by the commission and accepted in recent months by parliament and the council itself - this parliament has been ready and will be ready in the coming months to implement all the innovations that the financial regulation gives us. unfortunately, this time it was not possible, and i do not consider it a defeat for parliament, but a defeat above all for the council, which did not have the courage to use the instruments it had adopted. i repeat that this is not the time to be cheering, but next year european citizens, our institutions, our municipalities, our research institutes, young people, businesses and small and mediumsized enterprises, those who innovate, will certainly have much more resources at their disposal. i would like to conclude by thanking once again the presidency, the commission and, above all, the colleagues who have stood by me during these long months and who have negotiated with me on what i consider to be an important and extraordinary point for the european parliament.
member of the commission. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i think the broad consensus in the debate shows that there is a consensus on all sides here - a good basis for the discussion of the budgetary framework for the next decade. we should now use this momentum thursday and friday we have the european council to make as much progress as possible together for the modernised budgetary framework of the next decade and, if possible, to give our citizens clarity by the european elections on the programmes and instruments with which europe intends to achieve its objectives in the next decade through a sound budgetary policy.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner. thank you very much for this exchange of views. it has shown that we are united in our commitment to making progress for the benefit of europe and its citizens. the negotiations on the 2019 budget took place under complex circumstances. in spite of this, we worked together in a constructive manner and were able to reconcile our positions on how to finance the different priorities and actions of the union. i am convinced that the agreement reached on the 2019 budget is a good and balanced result, allowing the union to act and to react to the various needs. and of course i will also pass your compliments to my colleague minister löger. i thank you once more for your attention and wish you success in tomorrow’s vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues for this debate, the commissioner and the presidency for their participation. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. 240 million euros for erasmus+ means an extra 130,000 girls and boys who will be able to study in europe next year, and that's what makes me most proud 126 million euros for climate change; eur 150 million to work on the big issue of migration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll close with a quote from one of my favorite authors, chairman, i'll close this year and these five years on the budget committee, having had the good fortune to work with chairman arthuis and the other colleagues most of the time, i'll close with a quote from my favorite author, who is david foster wallace, who wrote a very, very beautiful novel, called a supposedly fun thing i'll never do again, "a fun thing i'll never do again". i'll never do a review in my life again, i think, but it was very entertaining and very informative. this parliament will do it again, the council will do it again and the commission will do it again. if i am able, if they want, i can give some advice to try to be faster and even more effective than we have been this year.
i interrupt this discussion for a moment to tell you that there has been an attack in strasbourg. we have closed parliament, no one can go out, but we are letting in those members who wish to take part in the debate, because it is not my intention - and i think i understand your sentiment - that this parliament should be intimidated by attacks of any kind, terrorist or otherwise. let us go on, let us keep working, let us not change our way of life, let us react with the strength of democracy and freedom to the violence of those who want to ruin civil coexistence in one of the capitals of europe. we do not bow our heads, we do not give up, we continue to work as parliamentarians, as representatives of the european peoples who do not want to be frightened by criminals - i believe they are unfortunately terrorists - who have sown panic in the centre of strasbourg (there are dead and wounded); we go forward and fight with the strength of democracy the violence of terror. so i think i can express your sentiments if the sitting of parliament is not interrupted today, and we will continue to let in members who wish to take part in the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out at the outset that, in the face of a united and shared commitment in the sede subcommittee on military mobility, the same interest has not been shown in the itre and tran committees. this led me to propose again in the plenary an important amendment on the need for geographical balance in military mobility, a point which was adopted by a very large majority in the opinion i was rapporteur for in the sede subcommittee. it is not clear why the three rapporteurs did not take this very important suggestion into account during the ecm negotiations. the need for a geographically balanced approach to military mobility is dictated above all by the rapidly changing crisis scenarios, which are often unpredictable and therefore require a multidirectional and balanced approach, capable of effectively addressing even those threats that are still not too obvious today. we cannot allow the future development of military mobility to favour some regions at the expense of others, merely because of the contingencies of the moment and without a long-term vision, unable to bring real added value to all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say and inform the house that the authorities have informed us that the bomber was a suspected member of the islamic terrorism group with an 's' card. this is a warning. we have discussed the problem of islamic terrorism today and i would like to draw the commission's attention to the need for serious and concrete measures to identify, tackle and stamp out this phenomenon, taking into account the number, as indicated in the report, of 30 000 allah's warriors in our cities, who are a threat to the security of everyone, including immigrants.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help but be very disappointed and bewildered by this text which is being put to the vote, which is very lacking in ambition and vision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these choices appear schizophrenic in relation to the climate and energy objectives that the union itself has set for 2030 and 2050 and irresponsible in the face of the gravity of the latest ipcc climate data, a real slap in the face to future generations, towards whom we, the political decision-makers of today, have an enormous responsibility. on the digital side, while we strongly share the need for a strengthening of europe's infrastructure, i would also say that we should listen to the growing number of researchers and doctors worldwide who are warning us, with ever-increasing force, about the potential risks to human health and the environment from widespread, prolonged, continuous and combined exposure to and coverage of several types of electromagnetic waves, some of which we know little or nothing about. the precautionary principle should be the cornerstone of the union's policies, but it has not been included in the text in any recital, whereas the protection of human health should always be the top priority of every legislator.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is embarrassing and difficult to speak in the circumstances we are in at the moment, with dead and wounded outside parliament, but i think it is right to decide not to block the work of democracy, so that a clear signal is given against the rampant madness that has struck strasbourg today and we hope it will not strike again. a quick comment, then: the ecm is a great opportunity and i, contrary to what my italian colleague rightly said a short while ago, express my satisfaction with the decision to invest heavily in strategic infrastructure networks of all kinds. we have decided, as the european union, we are deciding to provide the european union with the infrastructure to ensure its development. i hope my government learns this lesson and understands that without infrastructure and without major works, the word growth becomes empty of meaning. the big operations that we're trying to fund with these funds are operations that don't serve wealth but help growth and produce their main effects on the weakest layers of society, because only through real, untold development will even the poorest have a chance to play and a chance, finally, to start again with the whole community to which they belong. like it or not, this community is called europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i fully agree with the words of the commissioner in her introduction and i fully agree with the words of mrs grossetête. until a few years ago we could not even have imagined putting the issue of defence on the agenda of a debate like this in the house. today, finally, we are talking about a strategic point so that the european union can finally be called a community, that is, a group of peoples pursuing the goal of a full foreign and defence policy in the precise awareness that the aim of defence is not war but peace. it is because of this cultural position that we have put all our industrial capacity at the disposal of the community so that, in addition to being a great political opportunity, this is also a great opportunity for economic and industrial development for all the peoples of europe. so thank you and good work to all of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i ask for a few more seconds just to express my condolences to my french colleagues. our hearts go out to the french people and the city of strasbourg in the face of this violence and we hope that the person responsible will be arrested as soon as possible and brought to justice. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european defence fund could represent a further, very ambitious, step towards greater integration and strengthened industrial cooperation in the defence sector between european states. i would like to stress, however, some aspects which in my opinion are very important, in particular the priority given to safeguarding the plurality of member states' participation in the negotiation phase, by defending the minimum requirement, expressed in clear form, of three states. the european defence fund must not become a vehicle for financing bilateral cooperation with european funds. this also makes it important to allow, and to control, the participation of non-eu subjects, such as companies based on european soil or controlled by third countries. under certain strict conditions, these firms, with their know-how, can in fact bring a real added value to the research and development of new technologies. finally, i would like to reiterate that we will continue to work intensively, in the context of greater and more inclusive industrial cooperation in the field of european defence, not to open the door to financing for the development of any type of lethal autonomous weapons. the trilogue phase will be decisive and will require a major effort from all the member states and we hope for a real unity of intent and vision that goes beyond the usual bilateral logic, which may prevail.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, horizon europe is certainly one of the new flagship programmes of the union for the period 2021-2027, through a strong investment in research and technological innovation. as rapporteur for the opinion on behalf of the cult committee, i thank my colleagues on the itre committee for having taken up some of the main political priorities of our committee. the increase in funding for marie skłodowska-curie research fellowships and for research infrastructures is therefore welcome, in order to create a genuine research area with better links between research, scientific excellence, innovation and universities. it is also particularly important to have recognised the potential of the cultural and creative sectors and to have established a specific telematic hub, which provides for a particular focus on europe's cultural heritage and new areas of intervention for the humanities and social sciences. finally, it is essential to have recognised the importance of the theme of accessibility applied to new technologies in order to facilitate access to goods and services for people with disabilities. i also join in expressing my condolences and solidarity with the people and families affected by tonight's attack.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult for all of us, and for me too, to have this debate, which is a sign that things are going on, while there are dead and wounded outside: that should be our first thought. i must say that our rapporteurs, dan nica and christian ehler, and the shadow rapporteurs, including cabezón ruiz, have done a great deal of work and have brought very tangible results here, which we appreciate. i think that the first effort, and i say this to the commissioner, who is very committed to this, is to make all the countries understand that the fragmentation of national systems, which is a weakness of efficiency/cost, must be overcome, and that instead a great space must be seen around this concept of european research, the european research area. the contributions that our group has made have been somewhat shaped by the vision of sustainable equality. i am thinking, for example, of this effort to say that research involves all territories, and not just researchers, but also citizens, businesses and anyone who has a say in the concept of open and participatory science. i am thinking of the theme of exploitation in society, of the result of research and innovation, even incremental. i would just like to highlight two aspects of which we are very proud: the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. now i expect that something more will be put into health care, recognizing that today there is prevention and treatment but also rehabilitation. however, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the work they have done, very massive and very rapid.
in writing. horizon europe is the eu's main instrument for investment in research and innovation. it is the most ambitious research and innovation programme ever, costing almost €100 billion, and is structured around three pillars: 1) open science, to support frontier research projects defined and carried out by researchers, including through increased scholarships; 2) global challenges and industrial competitiveness, to support research aimed at strengthening technological and industrial skills; 3): open innovation to strengthen the eu's position as a world leader in innovation. i believe that horizon europe will not only continue to support scientific excellence, but will support the entry of the most promising ideas into the market, help to identify and finance high-risk and fast-moving innovations, and reduce the risk of distortion of competition, through the reintroduction of the sme funding instrument, with the potential to create new markets.
president anastasiades, thank you for coming to strasbourg for this debate on the future of the european union. it is important for us to know the position of your country and your personal position on the future of our continent and of our institutions. this parliament is the heart of democracy, and we want to have an open debate with european leaders on our future. but today is a very difficult day for everyone in europe.
yesterday a criminal killed three european citizens and injured 12 european citizens in the centre of strasbourg, the seat of the european parliament, the symbol of peace, the city which is the border between france and germany. this is a criminal attack on peace, on democracy, on our way of life. we must respond by doing the exact opposite of what those who attack democracy want. we must move forward, we must not change our habits, which is why we continued to work in plenary last night and finished our work at midnight. (applause) i would like to thank today we are here to move forward. because the force of freedom and democracy is winning against the violence of crime and terrorism. we stand with the families of the victims. last night i received a message of solidarity from the president of the french republic, mr macron, to the european parliament. i have received several phone calls from senior officials of the european institutions and military organisations. parliament is the heart of democracy, as i said, and we defend democracy by working. yesterday we had a debate on terrorism. today we are voting on a motion for a resolution on the work of the special committee on terrorism. at noon, i'll ask you to observe a minute of silence in solidarity with the victims. unfortunately, there are some injured people who are in hospital and are still in danger. that is why we stand with france, a country that has been attacked many times; after paris, after other cities, it is now strasbourg. we want to react as european citizens, as representatives of 500 million europeans, by discussing europe. of course, it must be changed, but it must not be destroyed. this is the only way to show that strength wins against violence and that the strength of europe protects us.
the next item is the debate with the president of the republic of cyprus, nicos anastasiades, on the future of europe (2018/2797(rsp)).
thank you very much, president anastasiades.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i greet the finalists and the representatives of the other finalists, including ms zoulikha sihaddou and mr ahmed zefzafi, who represent mr nasser zefzafi. (applause) i would like to thank i also greet mrs natalya kaplan and mr dmitry dinze, who are representing the winner, mr oleg sentsov. i want to call them to say goodbye and then get the session started. dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today, on a sad day for all of us, we pay tribute to oleg sentsov, a ukrainian filmmaker and writer who was imprisoned for political reasons. he's the winner of this year's sakharov prize for freedom of thought. sentsov is being honored for his peaceful protest against russia's illegal annexation of his native crimea. the prize is also awarded for his determination and commitment to the defence of human rights and dignity, democracy and the rule of law. these are the values on which the construction of europe is based, and even more so today after yesterday's terrible attack. this parliament will always be at the forefront of defending freedom and dignity of the person, inside and outside the european union. oleg sentsov, with his courage, hunger strikes and imprisonment, is the symbol of the struggle for the freedom of political prisoners held in russia and the rest of the world. i would like to warmly welcome natalya kaplan and dmitry dinze, sentsov's cousin and lawyer, respectively, who are here in the chamber today representing him. in july last year, the european parliament called for the immediate and unconditional release of oleg and all other ukrainian citizens illegally detained in russia and the crimean peninsula. we want to make this request very clear today. i would also like to welcome christophe deloire, secretary general of reporters without borders, winner of the 2005 sakharov prize, and the other finalists this year. i greet the representatives of the non-governmental organisations who are working to defend the rights of migrants and to save lives in the mediterranean. we must also say hello to the parents of nasser zefzafi. (applause) we also call for his immediate release. (applause) i would like to thank you've seen the video that introduces us to this year's winner. two days ago we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights: it is a document that is still a visionary document, a cornerstone for humanity. the european parliament has decided to commemorate this anniversary by devoting a whole week to human rights. the battle for human rights is, unfortunately, far from being won. all over the world men and women are persecuted for their ideas, for their beliefs, for their denunciations against authoritarian regimes. they are repressed for the mere fact of demanding freedom and justice. thousands of journalists risk their lives every day. many are killed or imprisoned for defending the truth and our freedom. all too often the powers that be trample on the principles enshrined in this declaration. but this should not discourage us, on the contrary, it should make us redouble our efforts, because our citizens are demanding a more effective europe, one that has the means to act and to promote human rights in the world with determination. the sakharov prize was established 30 years ago to support individuals and organisations who devote themselves, body and soul, to the defence of justice, even at the risk of their own safety. since then it has become the most widely followed human rights initiative in europe. five of our winners have been awarded the nobel peace prize, and just last monday dr denis mukwege and nadia murad received this important recognition. in may this year, oleg sentsov began a hunger strike, demanding the release of ukrainian political prisoners held in russia. after 145 days, he was forced to discontinue it due to his critical health and under threat of force-feeding. the russian human rights center "memorial", winner of the 2009 sakharov prize, has recognized sentsov as a political prisoner. the european film academy and a large number of filmmakers, associations and personalities have repeatedly called for his release. this year's sakharov prize ceremony takes place amid renewed tension between russia and ukraine. the recent incidents in the azov sea and violations of international law have further aggravated the situation. we reiterate our call to avoid an escalation and our firm condemnation of any action against the territorial integrity of ukraine. i would like to conclude by thinking of all the winners of our prize who are facing serious difficulties today. i think of nasrin sotoudeh, arrested in iran in june: we are extremely concerned about her situation and we also call for her immediate release. tomorrow parliament will also adopt an emergency resolution on his case. i also think of raif badawi, who won in 2015, and is still in prison for peacefully defending freedom of expression in saudi arabia. i am thinking of leopoldo lópez, who is under house arrest in venezuela, and razan zaitouneh, who was kidnapped in syria several years ago and whose fate is unfortunately still uncertain. i am thinking of the chinese activist hu jia, who lives under constant surveillance, and the movement of the ladies in white, whose members are constantly intimidated in cuba. not to mention sentsov himself: we are looking forward to receiving him in parliament and handing him the sakharov prize in person, because ours is not just a prize but a commitment we make to our winners. today i want to tell you all that you are not alone in this fight: this parliament will always be with you! (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, as i said this morning at the beginning of the sitting, parliament defends democracy and democracy is the strongest. the strength of democracy wins against the violence of crime. i ask you to rise and observe a minute's silence in solidarity with the three european citizens who were killed last night and those who were injured by this criminal. it is also a message of solidarity with the french republic and with all the families of yesterday's victims. parliament stands with them and we go forward to defend freedom and democracy. (the sitting was suspended for a minute)
at the opening of the sitting on monday 10 december, the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 69c (1) were announced. i would like to inform you that i have received a request from the gue/ngl and greens/efa groups to put to the vote the decision of the econ committee to open interinstitutional negotiations on the basis of the report on minimum loss coverage for non-performing exposures. the vote will take place tomorrow. as regards the other decisions to open interinstitutional negotiations by the regi, econ, itre, libe, juri, imco and afco committees, i have not received any request for a vote. these committees can therefore start negotiations. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two people lost their lives last night through no fault of their own, and without any responsibility whatsoever, and we cannot really think of reducing everything to a minute's silence. there are responsibilities that some people want to continue to ignore, there are deep responsibilities. i really can't accept this line of "we have to move on" the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will leave strasbourg after the vote, i will leave france. i invite macron to come here to strasbourg. i'm going back to italy in protest. i say to everyone: wake up, wake up, wake up! i'm going to the hospital! i join the protest and i say to you: wake up, wake up, wake up! i'm going to the hospital!
mr ciocca, please, today is not the day for propaganda demonstrations. (applause and protests outside the microphone) let me speak as i have made you speak! sit down right now! sit down right now! mr. choc, please sit down. (voices not audible outside the microphone) mr ciocca, if you had been in the chamber this morning, you would have heard more and known more. it 's a matter of good manners: you're rude if you interrupt, learn manners and stay in your seat. i repeat, this is not a circus, there are victims! respect the victims, not the propaganda. if you were in the chamber this morning when we were discussing... (protests outside the microphone) i believe that in a democracy and in freedom, in any parliament, everyone must respect others. i've got everybody talking, and i expect to be heard. i am not in favour of shouting, shouting, or clownish demonstrations in this parliament. (applause) those who are absent have a duty to inform themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have raised my hand to ask that we should not allow references to the regulation to become, as you have done, scenes of ridiculous propaganda which i believe are unacceptable at such a serious time. i appreciate what you said.
there is no debate, we are now voting. it is a very long vote, it is useless to argue among ourselves. this is the time for solidarity: terrorism is fought with unity, as you have reminded us today. (voices not audible outside the microphone) why are you always yelling? (questions from the president)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the council position of 11 december 2018 was approved by parliament without amendments. in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2019 can therefore be considered to have been concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2019 definitively adopted. i shall now proceed to the signing of the budget.
mr lamberts has made his proposal under rule 190. is there a dissenting speaker? does the rapporteur, mr silva pereira, have a word?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add this oral amendment: 'recognises that unjustified and disproportionate national measures, as well as uncoordinated measures, can jeopardise the unity and effectiveness of the single market; recalls, however, that certain measures may be legitimate and necessary to protect public interest objectives, as recognised in the treaties; "
i would like to begin by expressing my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims, to the city of strasbourg, a symbol of peace and reconciliation, and to the entire french people.
i would like to wish you all a very merry christmas, even in this very difficult situation for all of us.
merry christmas to you all! that concludes the voting.
on behalf of the efdd group. we know how urgent it is to reduce emissions to avoid climate disaster, and i quote the latest ipcc report, but also, of course, the daily weather reports. it is not just the climate, but also the need to achieve the so-called ecological balance. we know that the human race consumes, in just seven months, the renewable resources that nature is able to regenerate, and not always, in a whole year. if we compare the earth to an atm, from august to december 31, mankind withdraws money from its bank accounts, creating an ecological debt that we will leave to our children and grandchildren. the ecological balance is infinitely more important than the balance of the financial balance. the transition to a circular economy development model is therefore necessary to achieve a balanced ecological balance, and the transition to a renewable energy society is necessary to avoid climate breakdown. but these two transformations are not free, they have a low cost. we cannot simply dump them on the people in the form of taxes on polluting fuels and the like in the name of balancing the budget. the union and the member states must be able to spend to finance the green transition, which will create jobs through the circular economy and renewable energy. the decarbonised european economy needs above all a border carbon tax to avoid unfair competition from companies abroad, this sort of social and climate dumping. this is the change that europe and the rest of the world need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would all have liked to have had this debate in a different political climate. but, as other members have said, it is right that democracy and this parliament should continue to work, as they must. today - we have experienced it, france is experiencing it at this time - our democracies are under enormous pressure of a different kind, which threatens their very nature and a future that we have too often taken for granted. the double bite caused by the negative effects of globalisation on the one hand and the increasingly powerful disruptions caused by climate change on the other is proving to be unsustainable. i believe that we can respond to the climate challenge by integrating the social dimension, to protect all citizens, but in particular the most vulnerable, who are also the most affected by globalisation, who have suffered the most over time from pollution and the difficulties caused by the environmental crisis and who today rightly give us an account of their anger and frustration. we cannot put the burden of the ecological transition on the shoulders of the weakest. i believe, however, that it is possible, if we wish, to achieve a just transition, as our request for discussion also states. we must tackle the debate and our programme, which the commissioner has outlined, by always being able to assess together the environmental, economic and social aspects. if we succeed in doing this, and it is our duty to future generations, i believe we will be able to implement fair policies, and that is why we, as socialists and democrats, have presented to the citizens with strength and conviction a model, the result of years of work, which is of equity that i would call sustainable, and will be the basis of all our action at european level, because neither the citizens nor the planet can wait any longer.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that in recent years the big digital multinationals have benefited from very favourable taxation mechanisms, sometimes even scandalous, if we compare them with other economic and productive sectors, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first of all, it is absolutely essential that these companies do not pass these burdens on to the final consumer. i am also very sceptical of initiatives imposed from above in brussels: the taxation of companies must remain a matter for national competence and it has been clearly seen how, in the council, the various countries are rightly defending their prerogatives. i think that a global agreement in this area at the level of the g20 is desirable, but if that is not possible, i would like the individual countries to intervene, perhaps in a coordinated manner, but without any decisive action in these european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask for a check on 30d, we have asked for it in several members' reports. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a subject which we italians unfortunately know very well. we are well aware of the harmful effects that conflicts of interest can have on the economy and the democratic system of a country. in italy they have caused enormous damage, killing off competition, and heavily influencing public opinion and the democratic process. the czech prime minister babiš is the de facto controller of the agrofert group, which has received and is receiving large sums from the eu budget. the same company also controls mafra, the publisher of two of the most widely read newspapers in the czech republic, thus extending the conflict of interest to the media. we know that olaf investigations should have been ongoing since 2014, but on 18 july, i would like to remind you, regulation (eu, euratom) 2018/1046 entered into force, which expressly prohibits the allocation of european funds in cases of conflict of interest. we therefore call on the commission to examine the facts thoroughly and to take action to enforce these rules - which are fighting a real democratic scourge - with the same urgency and severity as it takes in dealing with other issues. we do not want our czech friends to suffer the same disastrous effects that we have had to suffer in the last decades.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zwiefka, and the committee on legal affairs (juri) for their commitment to an efficient system for commercial litigation in the eu and for their work on this legislative initiative report. indeed, there are a number of ideas which the commission will consider and which we shall use in our future work because i can confirm today that the commission shares the same objective. efficient and high-quality justice is an important pillar of the european union. it is an indispensable element of a business-friendly environment which enables prosperity and jobs in the internal market. in our work, in the justice scoreboard, data shows important differences in the length of court procedures between the member states, and there is room to stimulate improvements. we share the view that well designed court procedures are one of the key factors of efficient justice. this is why we propose to modernise the rules on cross-border cooperation in taking of evidence and serving of documents which – once adopted – will shorten court proceedings and reduce their costs. i thank the juri committee for taking up these files and look forward to the first reading position of parliament. we will look diligently at the proposals contained in the report. the recommendations contained in your report concern a number of actions, both legislative and non-legislative. some of them seem to be designed for a longer—term perspective, like the creation of the eu commercial court. we will examine thoroughly their feasibility. we certainly concur with this report which highlights the importance of judicial training. the future justice programme will continue to support the training of the judiciary and judicial staff as a tool to improve judicial cooperation in the eu and a specific objective of the programme will be dedicated to this. this will contribute to the building of the european area of justice by creating a common judiciary culture among justice professionals of the member states. this is also important to ensure the correct and coherent application of law in the union and mutual trust between justice professionals in cross-border proceedings. overall, i would like to stress that in commercial matters we need to hear the opinions of stakeholders who will be potentially directly affected by the proposed measures. support, and even demand, from the part of businesses is necessary for success of the proposed measures. although we have achieved a lot in our work to strengthen commercial procedures in the eu, there is – as i said before – room for improvement. at the conference on the effectiveness of justice systems organised by the presidency in vienna two weeks ago, i stressed the need to improve access to justice, to modernise justice and thus to increase the trust of people in the justice systems. ideas were put forward about how we can use digitalisation for the benefit of faster procedures and in the interests of both legal practitioners and citizens when claiming remedies. i believe that the commission’s work on effective justice systems, particularly on the eu justice scoreboard and the monitoring through the european semester, will help us to achieve these goals. i look forward to the debate.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i would like to say to the commissioner that we in the juri committee have been able to have a discussion which we consider to be important and effective, thanks to a political climate of mutual respect, of listening and of a convinced search for the necessary points of mediation, of compromise, as we say in our language. the reasons why we have taken up this subject are well known to all of us here. the settlement of commercial disputes in the european union is still too slow, it needs to be accelerated and based on the harmonization of a subject, that of cooperation, for which civil proceedings are still very far apart in the european countries. there are certain advantages to an accelerated civil procedure for europe: it not only removes the elements of conflict and potential conflict, but it also becomes an opportunity for great savings of resources, which then can be used and reinvested by companies in their own interests and in the interests of the people with whom they are in contact, of all the stakeholders, starting with those who work in these companies. so we are talking about a procedure, as is well known, which should be applied only to disputes relating to relations between undertakings, that is to say, all those which do not have consequences or aspects relating to the rights or conditions of other undertakings or workers. the key element for us is that any procedure for the accelerated settlement of commercial disputes established at european level should ensure full respect for the rights of the parties, including the possibility of subsequently being able to initiate a judicial process. we have defined that the procedure will be entirely voluntary and that therefore the consent of both parties is required. the choice of a procedure shall not be permitted before the commencement of any dispute: this is important for contractual clauses or commercial agreements between companies, because there is a risk that one of the parties could influence the others by its decision, and the party that influences is necessarily and objectively always the stronger one, to the detriment of small businesses. we must therefore ensure that the solution we propose does not risk penalising the weakest in the trade relationship. this is justice, this is democracy, and this is what we are particularly concerned about, as we have shown by the proposals we have made and by the nature of the debate we have had.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, errare humanum est, persevere autem diabolicum, which literally translates as 'to err is human, but to persevere is diabolic'. how many instances of maladministration are there in europe? many, too many. in my experience as a member of the european parliament, this is the fifth year that i have commented on the work of the european ombudsman, this year as rapporteur for the european parliament's report. the ombudsman's work is not only meticulous and rigorous but is also increasingly crucial to ensuring the highest level of protection of the democratic rights of citizens, and for this i thank her. yet, as we do every year, we are here in this chamber to discuss the new instances of maladministration which are plaguing the european institutions, without the mistakes of the past having served this europe to learn the lessons. conflicts of interest, lack of transparency, revolving doors, lobbying and lobbying without effective controls, decisions taken behind closed doors are just some of the problems that this europe continues to refuse to face concretely, increasing that sense of mistrust towards it and, consequently, the gap between citizens and institutions. the european ombudsman's approach and recommendations have always been high-profile and constructive. unfortunately, however, the leaders of the european institutions have too often proved indifferent to what was demanded of them and unwilling to make substantial improvements on central issues that are at stake for the union's credibility and image. the image of the 'glass palace' should be the beacon to follow in order to remove all barriers between those inside and those outside the palaces of power, in order to build a european union that is really based on respect for the principles of ethics, moral integrity and transparency. that is why, in addition to reviewing some of the most serious cases that marked 2017, i wanted to give my full support to the ombudsman's recommendations in this report, giving them added weight and strength. stricter rules are now needed on the integrity obligations which european commissioners must respect, both during and after their term of office. it was a shock for the whole of the european union when barroso, president of the commission during the worst years of the economic crisis, took up his post at goldman sachs, the merchant bank most implicated in the outbreak of that crisis. the recent meeting in october 2017 between the current vice-president katainen and barroso himself, recorded as a meeting with goldman sachs, is therefore highly objectionable. this further gesture showed that despite his achievements and his commitment not to lobby the eu institutions, barroso always found the doors of the highest officials open to welcome him. barroso's case is perhaps the most striking, but transparency international, in its investigations since 2017, indicated that 50% of commissioners had gone on to work for very powerful lobbies in the private sector, including bank of america and volkswagen. if we also consider that there is a register of lobbying transparency at eu level, which is burdened with very serious shortcomings and to which adherence is only voluntary, it is understandable how opaque lobbying activities in the eu institutions are and how the private sector can influence decision-making processes in an undisturbed way. the report calls for legislation to lead to the adoption of a mandatory and legally binding transparency register for all lobbyists and all eu institutions and agencies. the european central bank is also being asked to adopt stricter rules to protect its integrity, reputation and independence from private financial interests, given that its president, mario draghi, insists on being a member of a club, the so-called g30, which operates in complete obscurity and brings together the elite of the private banking and financial world, including the heads of banks subject to the ecb's own supervision. the report calls for the full protection of the right of citizens to know about the choices made throughout the decision-making process. there is still a serious lack of transparency in the trilogues, which are still completely inaccessible to the public, and in the procedures followed by the council, where the positions taken by the member states on legislative dossiers continue to be not recorded and citizens' requests for access to documents are regularly rejected. the commission's decision to extend the use of glyphosate until december 2022 and the use of scientific data provided by the same manufacturer, monsanto, in eu-wide procedures for the assessment of risks to human health, which i consider shameful, led the ombudsman to request the immediate launch of an inquiry, which also extends to eu procedures for the collection and evaluation of scientific data on gmos, plant protection products and medicines. these are just some of the cases dealt with in the report, which give us a glimpse of a highly deficient situation which needs to be remedied in good time. the citizens must enjoy a european union in which the duty of moral integrity in the conduct of all its representatives is guaranteed, where a genuinely transparent administration is ensured and where conflicts of interest with the private sector are avoided. the citizens of europe deserve a european union that is completely different from the one we have today. finally, let me make one final point. i am sorry to say that i welcome the many amendments tabled by the group of the european people's party, which seek to weaken the text and to delete and sweep under the carpet many of the cases we have discussed. i thank the ombudsman again for the great work she has done, i thank all my colleagues for their contribution to this report, i thank my staff and i look forward to the commissioner's comments.
ombudsman. – mr president, good evening and thank you, madame evi and all of the shadow rapporteurs, for your work on this report. let me of course first express my deep condolences to the families of those killed last night in strasbourg and send my best wishes to those who were injured. our thoughts are with them and their families tonight and also with all the members of the army, police and emergency services who so often put their own lives on the line to protect ours. thank you also to dg safe and the staff of this parliament for their work in alerting us last night and for protecting our security. honourable members, as ombudsman i help europeans in their interactions with the administration of the eu institutions. over the last five years, i’ve been able to do so only because of the engagement and cross-party support of this house. i also very much welcome the presence of commissioner jourová at this debate. as in previous years, accountability and transparency-related inquiries have accounted for the highest percentage of my office’s work. the eu administration has some of the highest standards of administration in the world, but as a comparatively young system the eu also faces challenges which makes it vital for its institutions, bodies and agencies to be as accountable and transparent about their decisions as possible. for example, while the parliament is proactively transparent in its legislative work, the council of the eu falls short of the appropriate requirements of transparency and participatory democracy that the treaties demand. in an inquiry opened in 2017, i therefore called on the council to improve the recording and publication of legislative documents so that citizens and indeed national parliaments can be better informed and hold their national governments to account. i subsequently sent a special report to parliament to ask for its support for my recommendations, and parliament is now working on a report on this subject to be tabled for plenary in january. i thank the two rapporteurs, ms toom and mr leinen, and all other members of the two committees involved, who supported my report. this is a good example of parliament’s ability to find common ground and work together when it comes to supporting my work and the accountability of the eu system. the draft toom/leinen report states that ‘greater openness on the positions taken by national governments may serve to alleviate the ‘blame brussels’ phenomenon, which distorts the reality of how eu legislation is agreed, fomenting euro scepticism and anti-eu sentiment’. the challenge that public administrations face in a time of widespread disinformation is also an issue that my office has touched on. in 2017 i hosted an event on eu agencies, how to manage the risk of reputational damage with the directors of efsa and echa. these agencies are vital in the protection of our health and it is important that the important factual messages they send out have widespread acceptance. my work naturally requires me to highlight administrative issues which need attention, but i also witness all of the good work of eu officials and their willingness to learn and evolve following my recommendations and suggestions. sometimes a gentle reminder can achieve more than a formal inquiry can. in 2017 i published a practical dos and don’ts guide for eu officials on how they should interact with lobbyists and how they can protect their institution and the public interest. the guide is now being used by the commission in its training for new staff and i want to thank the commission for its support. honourable members, to acknowledge the excellent work of eu officials, in 2017 i launched the award for good administration with more than 90 projects nominated. the overall award went to dg sante for its promotion of eu collaboration in helping millions of europeans suffering from rare diseases. a few weeks ago i launched the 2018 awards, which will be presented in spring 2019, and i look forward to even more entries so that best practice can be shared and citizens can be made more aware of the positive impact of the eu administration on their daily lives. last march i hosted our annual european network of ombudsmen conference in brussels, with the topic ‘future of the eu – ensuring an inclusive and fair society for citizens’. the annual event brings together over 90 european, national and regional ombudsmen to share good practice and to have the opportunity personally to interact with meps and with commission officials at the heart of the eu itself. dealing with complaints to my office, of course, is, and always will remain, the core work of my office. 2017 saw an increase in overall complaints to my office. 2 200 complaints in total and this strong upward trend has continued in 2018. while we have introduced new efficiencies, my office will, in the near future, require a modest increase in budget to hire more case handlers so that the expectations of our complainants can be met. as your report on my activities recognises, further examples of issues we have worked on in 2017 include: (i) our inquiry with the eeas to stop unpaid internships. this was supported by the budget committee, and this means that the eu is now an example around the world, as it now pays its trainees; (ii) our inquiry into how the european medicines agency handles meetings with the pharmaceutical industry and before they submit applications for drug authorisations; (iii) our year-long inquiry into the ecb president’s continued membership of the group of 30, a private group of senior bankers; and (iv) our ongoing work with the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities. finally, i would like to thank everyone involved in working on the annual report for their work. the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, their staff and the secretariats. and thank you, the members of parliament, for supporting my office in its efforts to maintain the high standards of public administration in the eu. when so many standards and democratic norms are under pressure and are being actively undermined in many parts of the world, it is now more important than ever for the eu to continue to shine as an example of good administration.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms evi, for her work on the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2017. the european ombudsman has been an essential part of the eu institutional architecture since 1995 and i would like to thank ms emily o’reilly for her work to help citizens make the eu administration a better administration. european citizens are entitled to high administrative standards from eu institutions and bodies. this is why the work of the ombudsman in fighting maladministration is so important. often, the ombudsman acts as a facilitator or go-between to help solve concrete problems. the commission is always ready to find solutions whenever it can. the figures speak for themselves. only 5% of the ombudsman’s inquiries end in a closing decision of maladministration. the compliance rate of eu institutions and bodies in general with the ombudsman’s recommendation is also high, at around 80%, showing how effective the work of the ombudsman is. the commission takes swift action to address cases of maladministration and complies with the ombudsman’s recommendations whenever possible. every administration can get better. there is a high willingness on the side of the eu administration to correct mistakes, to improve where necessary but also to take new initiatives in the general interest of the union and the citizens. this also deserves to be said and acknowledged. this is why the commission particularly appreciates the ombudsman’s initiative for an award for good administration that she launched in 2016. as we already heard, the ombudsman conferred the overall award to a commission service, namely dg health, and four out of seven specific awards to other commission services. please also allow me to say a word about transparency and ethical standards, since these topics are addressed in your report as well. i would like to emphasise that, in these areas, the commission lives up to very high standards, often higher than in many other administrations. in the area of lobbying transparency, the commission has led by example. to meet a commissioner, cabinet member or director-general, lobbyists must first sign up to the transparency register. in our proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, we have suggested to extend this principle to the parliament and the council. this would represent a major step forward towards greater transparency at eu level, as the register would become de facto mandatory for lobbyists. the commission’s ethical rules, enshrined in the staff regulations, prevent the risk of conflict of interest and ensure that commission staff act impartially and for the public good. this was reinforced last june by a new decision on officials’ outside activities and activities after leaving the service. the new code of conduct adopted in january sets clearer rules and higher ethical standards for members of the commission, while also increasing transparency. the commission will continue to work with the ombudsman to ensure good administration and maintain the highest possible standards of public service.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, accessibility of official working documents, responsiveness to citizens, response times, meritocracy in the allocation of key roles and improvement of decision-making processes: these are the cornerstones of the report we have been working on, which has found wide support precisely because it takes into account not only the work of the ombudsman but also the capacity of the european institutions to reflect the high standards of democracy which he aspires to represent, which european citizens demand and which the european union in turn demands of the member states. thanks also to the work done in committee, this is a report which, in my opinion, is free from euroscepticism and unfounded criticism of the european union system, which does not lend itself to easy anti-european and nationalist polemics, but rather calls for more transparency from the institutions so that european responsibilities are precisely clear, where appropriate, for example with the response of clarity in the relationship with the lobbies, and the responsibilities of the member states, if it is at that level that decisions are actually taken, so that the bad habit of blaming the inadequacy of national policies on the european union is stopped once and for all. the reality of the data highlighted by the ombudsman in his report leaves little room for interpretation or timidity and it is certainly no coincidence that the three main issues on which the ombudsman's inquiries were archived in 2017 were transparency and access to documents, the culture of the service and respect for procedural rights. it means that much can still be done in this direction. the european union must therefore do its part, for example by publishing the key documents of the trilogues, as requested by the ombudsman, or, as a member of the committee on the procedure for the authorisation of pesticides by the union, by launching a strategic inquiry to assess how, for example, the agencies and bodies of the union itself ensure the collection and examination of independent scientific evidence. these are just two examples of the demands contained in this report, which i consider to be balanced and balanced against the positions of the ombudsman, who remains a point of reference for citizens as demonstrated also by the petitions that reach the european parliament, and i am also a member of that committee. but the calls for the union to improve itself must be inspired by the conviction that the european union is a valuable goal for cooperation between our countries, in fact for our entire community. the ombudsman will continue to play a key role in the democratic maintenance of the institutions and the european construction and in identifying the major issues that negatively impact the lives of european citizens. only then can we give real answers to the 500 million citizens watching us.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is important, because it gives objective evidence of intensive, widespread work in almost all the areas under the scrutiny of this important institution, and above all because it must guarantee the transparency of our institutions in the eyes of citizens and taxpayers. there is one defining feature of this report, and that is the invitation, explicitly extended by the ombudsman, to secretary-general selmayr (at least to me it seems to be an invitation that is at least implied), a figure who was the protagonist of a case which has caused enormous controversy and which has certainly damaged the general image of the european union. it should be noted that in the report we read that the european ombudsman also invites the commission to adopt a new procedure for the appointment of the secretary-general. it seems a little, actually. let 's see what the facts are . the commission, in filling the post of secretary-general, has in fact created an artificial urgency to justify the failure to publish a vacancy notice and has initiated a procedure for the selection of the deputy secretary-general precisely in order not to fill that post directly but to appoint, in two successive stages, mr selmayr as secretary-general, with all due respect for the criteria of transparency and, let us say, ethics, because that is what we are talking about. in case there is another case: the number one presupposition is the premature resignation, in this case, of his predecessor, the dutchman italianer, whose mandate was not expiring and it just so happens that the italianer himself was the magna pars of another even darker case, and that is the draw for the ema headquarters. too many obscurities, which need to be clarified, and i also call for the intervention of investigative journalism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to thank mrs evi for the excellent work she has done on the european ombudsman's 2017 report, which stresses that transparency and good administration are two fundamental principles which, in compliance with the treaties and the european charter of fundamental rights, must always underpin the european union's action in all areas. the european ombudsman has played an important role in ensuring that the european institutions uphold these principles this year too, handling over 2 000 complaints from citizens and launching over 447 inquiries into the various aspects of the right to good administration, from access to documents to respect for procedural guarantees in administrative proceedings, to various sensitive institutional ethics issues. i would like to express my support for the call made by the european ombudsman, and also echoed in the report by parliament, for the proposal to establish a european register for the transparency of the activities of stakeholders, the so-called lobbying. the representation of special interests must be carried out in the open, ensuring that legitimate interactions between the representatives of the institutions and the representatives of those interests are traceable and are carried out in the most transparent manner. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that the european ombudsman plays an essential role in strengthening citizens' confidence in the process of european integration, especially at a time like this, when trust in the european institutions is under pressure from many sides.
thank you very much, ms o’reilly, for your important work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018 at 12.00. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the deliberations of the committee on petitions in 2017 (2018/2104(ini)) (a8-0404/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me begin by thanking ms wikström, mr csáky and the whole committee on petitions (peti) for the comprehensive report on the activities of peti in 2017. like its predecessors in previous years, the report gives evidence of the wide range of issues that petitioners bring to peti’s attention each year, and of the committee’s efforts to ensure that the voices of those petitioners are really heard. the commission shares parliament’s view that the right to petition is both a fundamental right of all eu citizens and a key element of participatory democracy, allowing for citizens’ active engagement in the fields of eu action. citizens often turn to the committee as a last resort because they feel that they have exhausted all other avenues, and we, both the commission and the parliament, can demonstrate that we listen to their concerns and take them seriously by offering proper responses and, where possible, showing them existing solutions at european or national level. this is a concrete example of how we can collaborate to bolster citizens’ confidence and trust in the european project. however, we should also recognise that there are often cases where the expectations of citizens supersede the powers of the eu. unmet expectations can lead to frustration and the argument that the eu is simply not up to the task. while this is understandable, though lamentable, it is impossible to answer citizens’ calls that go beyond our competences and eu law. it is our collective duty to inform citizens of the possibilities and limitations of eu law in order to stem unfair accusations that the eu doesn’t want to listen and/or is unfit to act. as the report points out, our institutions have built good working relationships in recent years when it comes to handling petitions. of the petitions declared admissible by the parliament in 2017, about two-thirds were referred to the commission for an opinion. in return, the 670 replies that the commission sent back to the parliament in 2017 testify to our engagement to support the critical work of the committee, which the commission takes very seriously. all commission replies are prepared with care and are widely consulted upon among its services. appropriately ranked officials with expert knowledge of the issues discussed participate in the committee’s meetings with the aim of providing the most meaningful and up-to-date information in a timely manner. here i am therefore pleased to reaffirm the commitment of the commission to continue our good collaboration and to bring forward the eu added value in the resolutions of petitioners’ concerns. the report calls on the commission to make proper use of its powers stemming from its role as guardian of the treaties, and for a timely handling of infringement procedures. the commission’s new enforcement policy sets out a more strategic, effective and proportionate approach to infringement policy to allow us to deliver on our policy priorities. we will give priority to pursuing the most important breaches of eu law affecting the interests of citizens and businesses. one key development is that we will launch infringement procedures without relying on the eu pilot mechanism unless recourse to this mechanism is seen as useful in a given case. this will allow us to act firmly and quickly when infringements obstruct the key eu policy objectives and to ensure timely handling of infringement procedures. the main objective of infringement procedures is to ensure that member states give effect to eu law. these often lengthy procedures are conducted between the commission and a member state and are not designed to provide for individual cases. as guardian of the treaties, the commission enjoys discretionary power which allows it to decide to open or not to open an infringement procedure. according to the treaties, where citizens’ rights under eu law are affected at national level they must have access to rapid and effective national redress mechanisms. as the commission stated in its 2016 communication, national courts are the common courts for upholding eu law and contribute effectively to enforcing it in individual cases. as for informing the parliament about ongoing eu pilot investigations and infringement procedures related to petitions, the commission strives to give as much information as possible in its written replies to parliament. however, it has to respect the necessary confidentiality with regard to the member state concerned, as recognised by the court of justice. more generally, the commission proactively disseminates information on infringements and publishes it on the centralised platform of the europa website. the report also touches upon a number of other important issues for which the views of parliament and the commission largely converge. let me only mention the high priority in preserving citizens’ rights after the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, or the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. i will, however, end my remarks here once again thanking ms wikström and the peti committee for your very helpful report. i look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members in the debate.
i am very pleased to be able to speak in this house and to speak about the work of the committee on petitions, of which i have the honour to be a member. in these years - and i can say this because it is now normal for us to draw up a sort of budget for our mandate as meps - we have done a tremendous job in the peti committee, and i thank chairman wikström and also our coordinator of the s&d group, who have always been present and consistent in a work which, in the end, we can say, is a work of truth. the committee, which is the least popular of the european parliament's committees, let us be honest, precisely because it does not deal with legislative processes, receives cases of all kinds and it can truly be said that our work is sometimes almost investigative. i remember over the years the many cases we dealt with, the many replies we gave to the european citizens who asked us. i 'll quote one for all of us: the case of the missing children in spain under the regime of francisco franco, a case that has marked me, also personally and in a particular way, on which we engaged with a mission that had touching moments, when we met the mothers now elderly who are still looking for these children. i feel that the work of the peti committee must be increased and intensified, that the commission, but also parliament, must give us the opportunity to work more and better. this is what the european citizens expect and this would be a great signal to the eurosceptics. the committee on petitions is the real link between the citizens and this institution, the european parliament. let us make sure that it is ever closer to the citizens and that it represents true european values.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the committee on petitions is a genuine committee which opens itself to the public to make its voice heard. the work of this committee in 2017 has recorded some very valuable positions on issues reported through the many petitions by thousands of european citizens: i am thinking of the fight against precariousness, the issue of protecting the welfare of children, the promotion of renewable energy and also the many cases in which the protection of the environment and human health was at stake. however, the hearings held, the recommendations made and the resolutions adopted cannot and should not be considered as a landing point. in practice, unless we see concrete results that actually improve the daily lives of those citizens who have turned to the european parliament with hope, we cannot stop here. and this remains the biggest challenge for the committee on petitions: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate, which provides proof not only of the importance of the right to petition in our union but also of the importance of our collective efforts to respond to the concerns that citizens bring to our attention. my choice of the word ‘collective’ in this context is a deliberate one, as both parliament and the commission have key roles to play in this area. and as vice—president liberadzki said, there is always something uncomfortable at the beginning: this is always the complaint of people about something wrong; something that they find unjust; something which they would like to see solved. a large number of petitions and a diversity of issues entail a combination of this bad start but also something very good: it is the proof that the people have confidence that if they come to us with their complaint we will do something useful. that we will deal with the complaints, that we will come up with a solution if it is within our power, and that we can come up with a workable solution which will change the situation for the better. this high level of confidence which the people show to us through their petitions is also a very strong commitment for all of us. so i would like in this context to reiterate that the commission attaches great importance to the good working relationship built during these years with the committee on petitions, and that i take this commitment very seriously and am ready to cooperate further on finding proper solutions to the problems of people. i would like to reassure the parliament of our continued and strong commitment to cooperate closely together in the handling of petitions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018 at 12.00.
the agenda includes the report by massimiliano salini, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union space programme and the european union space agency and repealing regulations (eu) no 912/2010, (eu) no 1285/2013 and (eu) no 377/2014 and decision no 541/2014/eu (com ((2018) 0447 - c8-0258/2018 - 2018/0236 ((cod)) (a8-0405/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have the opportunity to illustrate one of the programmes, the one concerning the european union's space strategy, which, i believe, documents with less uncertainty the usefulness of a strong europe, a europe with concrete leadership. the great space tradition of the european union finally has the opportunity to be realised through an integrated programme, as proposed by the commission. the work we have done in recent months has been divided into several elements, and we have done a fruitful job in trying to take advantage of the commission's proposal, which has certainly put us in a position to operate properly. first of all, the budget. the budget proposed by the european commission is a large budget of eur 16 billion. we have worked to improve, to some extent, its capacity to cover all the needs that have emerged, in particular on copernicus and, i must say, a strong discussion on the new programmes, namely ssa and govsatcom, and maintaining the primacy in terms of budget allocated, in our view correctly, to galileo and egnos. the commission's proposal, as you know, is now worth eur 16.9 billion and it is important that it is not reduced. the industrial theme is also one of the pillars of the space strategy. the european space industry has a huge impact and we believe that the commission's proposal to propose an integrated programme, which would link all the various programmes in a solid and structured way, namely the egnos, galileo, copernicus and also the new ssa and govsatcom programmes, is correct. this will, in our view, generate efficiency and, on the other hand, a reduction in unnecessary costs, and thus a reduction in unnecessary duplication and repetition which in the past have sometimes reduced the firepower of the programme from an industrial point of view. a second key element from an industrial point of view is the whole of the downstream consignment: we need a detailed and articulated dissemination and use of all the data and services generated by the space programme. this will be of great benefit to end users and, of course, to all the industries which need to be able to use these services. we are very strong upstream, we have to become strong downstream, so that the chain is complete. this is a judgment that also emerges from the assessment of the enormous impact that a good space programme can have on the geopolitical game. we are living in a context of serious geopolitical uncertainty. in summary, a space programme with these characteristics would have four major advantages for the european union: competitiveness, first of all, sustainability, autonomy - why not? - especially in the management of certain sensitive data - and security. the articulation of these four great pillars will produce the desired result, namely a genuine european leadership through a completed space programme worthy of the name. the second part - and i close, i go to the conclusion - which concerns the negotiation phase that we have faced so far, and that we will face, is the big game of governance. i should like to say a few brief words on this subject, but i think they are useful and helpful. the european commission has overall responsibility for the space programme, oversees its security and coordinates all the bodies involved in the implementation of this programme, in particular the gsa, the agency which will become the european union agency for the space programme, and the european space agency, which traditionally contains the best expertise. so the european union agency for the space programme with increased powers, but above all an action of constant coordination by the european commission: these are the secrets to the space strategy being accomplished. i would add one last point because, mr president, commissioner, in addition to being rapporteur in the itre committee, i was and am also rapporteur for the opinion of the tran committee and so i bring together in this speech the two elements, the two sides of the problem. as regards the important impact we have on transport, in the context of the space strategy, i will not go into too much detail, it is obvious, it is part of what i have already said in regard to industry. but let's think about the issue of sustainability, the issue of using drones to improve postal services, the issue of playing the environmental sustainability game through more careful and articulated management of traffic, especially road traffic. then there's the airplane thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i want to say thank you. i am grateful to all the colleagues and shadow rapporteurs with whom we have worked so far, and who have, in my view, made compromises that are up to the challenge, and to the commission's proposal which has enabled us to work properly.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in thanking mr salini, with whom we have worked very, very well. the report voted on in the itre committee takes account of many of our requests and we are particularly pleased to see the user fora, which we have proposed, in the text we are about to vote on. user fora are a crucial tool, the voice of those who use the data provided by the satellites. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to a particular concern, however, which is subsidence. i have tabled an amendment to include subsidence monitoring among the activities of copernicus. subsidence, or the slow sinking of the ground due to natural or man-made causes, is a phenomenon that is spreading throughout europe. just one example: venice is threatened by subsidence. subsidence can cause serious damage to property, infrastructure and agriculture. it's a little-known problem, because our senses don't tell us when a subsidence is happening, only a satellite can. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendment no 227.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the congratulations to the honourable member who has followed this report: mr salini has done a very good job. with tomorrow's positive vote on this regulation we will take another essential step towards the implementation of an increasingly integrated european space programme, which can guarantee more autonomous, independent and reliable access to space for europe. a lot has already been said and i share it. i am particularly pleased with the result achieved in the parliamentary procedure, although i believe that we must continue to be ambitious in the next legislative steps and in future initiatives, if europe is to be able to keep pace with its international competitors. i therefore believe that space diplomacy must play a key role and that it is crucial to enhance the role of the european union in the international space arena by giving full prominence and support to the excellence achieved in this field. it is important to recognise the weight that space data can have in areas such as agriculture, the environment, civil protection, cultural heritage and infrastructure, to name just a few. the space programme must also promote the space economy more and more extensively and enhance the applications and use of data for the benefit of users, european industry and small and medium-sized enterprises, thus promoting growth, jobs and all services for european citizens. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for asking. although i am not directly in a position to manage this part of the potential of the european space programme, it is clear that a whole series of data which are being provided are capable of benefiting not only large industry, that industry which bases its activity on research and innovation, but also small and medium-sized industry, which is in dire need of data on which to build its activity and its projects.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for the discussion. i want to start with one sentence: every one of us needs to know that the european union’s space sector has recorded a tremendous achievement in this field. this is really something that we should be proud of and we need to repeat this again and again. our galileo and copernicus programmes are the best genuine system in the world and 10% of our newly established start—ups are rooted and have a base in data given by the european union from those two programmes – almost 10% of newly established start-ups. this is important data and we all need to keep this in mind. the current proposal for the space programme creation is another important milestone in the development of the sector. let me refer to two points. first, on the overlaps between the european space agency and our european union agency for the space programme in prague. i want to underline and stress very strongly that there is no overlap in our proposal between the role of those two agencies. our objective was to clarify precisely the competition between those two agencies and, according to this, to make a very slight adjustment in the governance. we now also have to take the new realities into account of course – brexit, but also the increasing role of security issues. we are not removing any competition from the european space agency. we need to rely on them because they have a lot of genuine and top—quality technical expertise, which is very much needed once the programmes are operational. they need to be managed and be employed by the agency and this will be the european agency for the space programme in prague. on the involvement of third countries, we all know that space is about cooperation and that space is global, as one of you said. at the eu level, it is also about cooperation because what we have achieved in our space programme could not have been achieved by any one member state alone. we understand this, but of course there are some components of our programmes with some essential security elements which are increasing and growing. we must not be naive but must preserve europe’s strategic interest. we need a kind of flexibility to be on some points strict on the participation of third countries because those security concerns and issues are growing and they take up more and more space in the space programmes. so i want to call on the parliament to allow us – and allow the space sector – this flexibility through article 25 of our proposal. these were the two points that i wanted to clarify a little bit, but i think that we can all see what a long way we have come since the first space programme was launched. parliament has been extremely supportive in this direction and now we must keep this momentum going. this is the most important thing. our request to you is to have a really constructive and rapid negotiation between the council, the commission and parliament on this really important instrument for european industry, and not only for big companies. this is the most important thing for our start-ups and for our smaller companies, as i explained before. this is important for european citizens – every one of them – and for the european economy. so i very much trust that you will give the mandate to move the proposals to the negotiations tomorrow.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i must say that i strongly agree with the words with which you have opened this summary, this conclusion. we europeans are the best at the space game, he's perfectly right. the performance of our solutions in the context of more mature programmes such as galileo and copernicus documents our absolute leadership capacity for the solutions with which we have occupied the construction of really important infrastructures in the aforementioned constellations. now our big game is downstream. i'm just referring to this one point among so many that we've touched. the theme of the applications, for example: the use of the benefits of galileo technology forces us to be rigorous. today many of the benefits of the galileo constellation are exploited by non-european applications. the geolocation systems of the applications that we all have on our smartphones are related to applications that are not born in europe, they are born outside europe, and therefore generate benefits outside europe, for free! they use the services of our constellation and make profits that don't belong here. you've rightly mentioned the startups and the many challenges we're overcoming. we are also winning the downstream one and we will have made that journey, thanks to the huge public and private investments we have generated in recent years in the field of space, we will have completed the parabola and given europe one of the programmes that certainly, more than any other, in my opinion more than many others, can convince europeans of the usefulness of the european union. the european union has one of its biggest sponsors in the space programme and so we must defend it as such.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the congratulations of my predecessors and also in the considerations on the importance of this programme. perhaps the funds are not as plentiful as they appear. i would also like to point out something: the commission has already done so many times in the past, and it has built up a society and an economy based on certain technological innovations, and too often the side effects have not been prevented. even in the digital transition we have side effects that are already manifesting in our societies, since there are some problems such as the degradation of the psycho-sensory balance, cognitive and emotional fragmentation, chronic distraction, especially in children and adolescents - there is already a large medical and scientific literature - these are problems that will increase with the inevitable digital transition, which is also positive. then maybe we should start taking precautions, too. we have tabled amendments on this, because prevention is always better than cure and going back is very difficult. i'm counting on your wisdom.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while this debate is taking place, a 28-year-old italian man, antonio megaliti, is fighting with death, not far from us, at the hautpierre hospital, along with others. i would like to turn my thoughts to this victim of islamist terrorism. it is perfectly in line with the subject i want to address, because behind this development of migrants there can be hidden the smokescreen of the presence of many former warriors of allah who have been defeated in the islamic state and who penetrate, together with migrants, into bosnia-herzegovina. i would like to remind you of what a bosnian journalist recently said in an interview, namely that there is a danger that these people, by coming into contact with young bosnian muslims, will convert them, radicalize them. this must be the commitment of the european union, which has heavily financed bosnia-herzegovina so that it can carry out real, not merely verbal, de-radicalisation work, by fighting those who are inciting young muslims and radicalizing them by actions such as those which have disgraced this assembly - islamist terrorism which some, hypocritical and cowardly, do not dare to call by its name: islamic terrorism!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was easy to imagine that the balkan route would be changed after the hungarian border was closed. last summer the situation on the border between bosnia and croatia worsened and there were already reports of serious human rights violations and shortcomings in the right to apply for asylum. with the arrival of winter, the situation only gets worse: the european union has a duty to help the victims of the conflict in the balkans. there are at least 5 000 lives at stake in this border area, amongst abuse, cold, severe malnutrition, hygiene and sanitation conditions below humanitarian standards. the life of every human being is sacred and must be respected. i am proud that our delegation from the european parliament gave its full support to the adoption of the global compact for migration in marrakesh a few days ago. i think that this should also be taken into account in our work. we cannot allow croatia and bosnia to handle this clear emergency on their own. i remember that at the beginning of the year some 23 000 people entered bosnia, dreaming of europe. human rights cannot be stopped by borders, they are an integral part of every man, woman and child and i am proud to be able to repeat them in this house, the seat of democracy. the humanity we share must be at the heart of our work, a commitment to the common good and the protection of every human being.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that the commission is finally here to discuss the situation on the border between bosnia and croatia. three months ago, together with 20 colleagues, we asked the commission whether it was monitoring the desperate situation of thousands of people in bihac, velika kladuša, who were left to fend for themselves in unacceptable conditions. two days ago, human rights watch confirmed what has been reported in recent months by many international newspapers and associations working in the field. is the commission aware of the systematic violence by the croatian authorities, against whom there have been numerous allegations, and if so, what does it intend to do to monitor the situation, to investigate these allegations and to give a response which is respectful of the fundamental rights of the people? we also ask for answers about the brutal rejections: we must remember that these people have the right to seek asylum in europe, in croatia, while they are on croatian territory. we also call for independent monitoring of what is happening, because it is unbelievable that your failure to welcome in internal solidarity is paying for it in other countries and on the skin of these people! thanks to the volunteers who make up for your shortcomings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join the call for the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh and the other human rights defenders who are being detained for the sole reason of exercising their right to freedom of expression and thought. i am extremely concerned about the deterioration of human rights in iran and i believe that in the dialogue with the european external action service it is necessary to continue to raise this issue at every possible opportunity. i stress that i believe it is crucial that the iran nuclear deal remains alive. trump's decision to withdraw from the agreements and impose new sanctions harms iran from an economic perspective but also from the perspective of the situation of internal freedoms. sanctions and reduced international cooperation can only have a profound negative impact on civil and social rights, as well as economic rights in iran. a european union delegation to iran should be established for dialogue and enhanced cooperation with the country in the various areas of mutual interest, with full respect for human rights.
author. mr president the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is once again talking about egypt, a country which has been a model for human rights violations, where the genitals of children are subjected to electroshock, to give a gruesome example. we have made resolutions, there have been international appeals, reports from many non-governmental organizations, but no response, indeed arrogant responses from those who know they can count on general impunity. we have a boy of our own, an italian but also european boy, giulio regeni, who was brutally murdered and tortured three years ago and we still can't get either truth or justice for this boy. so i ask myself: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. what kind of blackmail are we being subjected to by egypt to continue to endure this kind of human rights violations?
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have taken a keen and personal interest in this motion for a resolution for two reasons: first, because egypt is a strategic economic and political partner for the european union, and second, because a dispute between egypt and italy over the case of giulio regeni, a boy who was brutally tortured and killed in february 2016, is still active and alive. egypt is going through a difficult time: it is rising up and is on a path of institutional reform. we, as the european union, want to be friends of egypt and its people, privileged partners to accompany them in the long process of institutional reform. it is important that basic democratic rights, such as freedom of expression, online and offline, as well as freedom of association, political pluralism and the rule of law in egypt, are strengthened. these are the cornerstones of a democratic and pluralistic nation, they are the fundamental characteristics to mediate between oppositions and avoid wars and conflicts. history teaches us that democracy is not perfect, but it ensures peace and prosperity. we ask the egyptian people and their government for clarity and truth for giulio regeni, a european boy who loved to study, worked very hard, was really a special person. we are not doing this for political reasons, but we are doing it to give back to his family and to the european truth the truth about a boy and his story.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it's good news, except that it's made up of government officials who are the security services that are accused of serious human rights violations in the country. from the outset, it seems that this new body is more concerned with protecting the country's image than human rights. egypt is certainly an important partner for the european union, but there are principles and values which must take precedence over a realpolitik based solely on power balances and commercial interests. these are civil, democratic and human rights that every country must guarantee in order to have relations with the european union, but unfortunately, this is not what we see in egypt. there are activists, journalists and lawyers imprisoned and sentenced for their ideas, there are mass trials that end in death sentences that are not based on any evidence or on any concrete investigations. there are also two parents, those of giulio regeni, who are searching for the truth that explains why giulio was tortured and killed and why the egyptian authorities are covering up the responsibility. the resolution proposed seeks to put forward the agenda and the urgency of an agenda for human rights in egypt, and this agenda - i ask you, commissioner - must be put forward by the european union with force and determination.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three years have passed since the brutal murder of giulio regeni and i can only imagine how his family must feel, every day and, even more so, during these holidays, to continue to have no answer and to have no justice. beyond empty reassurances, pat on the back and promises of goodwill, the egyptian authorities continue to fail to cooperate: the fog of impunity is thicker than ever. that is why the italian chamber of deputies has suspended relations with the egyptian parliament, to give a shock, a signal, and to remind us that if the world is forgetting, or perhaps it has already done so, we are not, we do not forget and we will not forget. the union has the ambition to be a global geopolitical actor, capable of influencing global dynamics. in fact, he can't even get answers when a european citizen - because giulio was such, as well as being an italian citizen - is brutally tortured and killed. i 'm gonna say this loud and clear: if the union were to put as much effort into the search for truth as it does into checking the decimal places in the budgets, we would probably have the answers already. i support this resolution, but i support even more that realpolitik must not prevail. let us follow the example of the chamber of deputies: we break off relations until they laugh at us, until there is truth and justice for giulio regeni.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for almost 35 months we have been and continue to be asking for truth and justice for giulio regeni. it is good that parliament today, with this resolution, is again strongly calling for the full cooperation of the egyptian authorities with the italian authorities in the investigations and interrogations and also for the security of the italian and egyptian lawyers who are investigating to find the truth. we must also put an end to the violence, the torture, the enforced disappearances in egypt. it is good that the resolution calls for the immediate and unconditional release of amal fathy and also of the various human rights defenders who are being illegally detained. another thing i would like to add is that we cannot consider no european country should consider egypt a safe country, there are no conditions. and stopping the arms sales to the sisi regime would be a good start, and i say this to some governments that are continuing to do so. if you put commercial interests and the obsession with blocking migrants ahead of you, you are betraying the fundamental rights that we have put at the foundation of this union. so, really, we seek consistency and we seek truth and justice for what happened to giulio regeni.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president john magufuli's repressive policy is taking giant steps towards nazism, now that the hunt for gays is officially open. his friend paul makonda, the governor of dar es salaam, aims to cleanse society of western evils that offend tanzanians' moral values: sex and especially the dreaded homosexuality. the government's inflammatory and sexophobic rhetoric has now turned into action, even backed by a task force to identify and arrest members of the lgbti community. as if that were not enough, president magufuli has also banned the entry of female mothers into school, a serious and permanent exclusion from culture, education and probably even from the world of work for these poor girls, for some obscure reason, we are not given to know. i'm not so much concerned with the delusions of a bigoted president and a governor who takes orders from god, as i am with the hate speech and twisted rhetoric that is poisoning the population. in the light of this absurd scenario, i think it is necessary to review and possibly suspend our relations with tanzania, at least until it puts an end to this unwarranted persecution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in dar es salaam homosexuality is not a human right. it is with these shameful words that on 31 october last year paul makonda, governor of the region, launched a real witch hunt against homosexuals, stigmatized as guilty of a carnal sin against the order of nature. we are facing yet another manifestation of a widespread and long-tolerated homophobia in tanzania, a country where laws still exist today that punish homosexuality with 30 years in prison. but the lgbti community is not the only one being targeted. since magufuli's election in 2015, there has been a terrible general deterioration of human rights, to the imposition of an absurd ban on mothers returning to school after childbirth. these young women, many of whom are victims of violence, thus become the new enemies of a state that forces them to choose between their education and their child. i strongly urge the tanzanian authorities to immediately withdraw this senseless ban, as well as other laws against the lgbti community. i call on the european union, as announced by the high representative, to review its policies towards tanzania at last and as soon as possible. let us enforce these human rights clauses in cotonou, in the agreements we have signed, otherwise they are just scraps of paper.
rapporteur. – mr president, actually what colleague giegold is saying is not true. this is a balanced compromise – basically identical to the position unanimously voted by the council, being welcomed by the commission – and this ensures actually a very prudent calendar provisioning for npls, while avoiding the risk that too rigid provisions and the one that you are asking for would negatively affect consumer smes. honestly, i find your arguments totally contradictory. you make propaganda about the consumers, but what you would like to do, is exactly what would bring people with the mortgages, smes, into the hands of hedge funds – american hedge funds. so, it’s totally contradictory, what you are saying. (applause) and second, the reason the reason why the greens are making this objection is basically political, because we reached a balanced compromise with the epp and you didn’t like that and i’m proud to do that because i have many different views with the epp, but i’m proud that in this house we are able also to find common ground and to find together good legislation. this makes europe stronger, not weaker, and that’s why i think we have to endorse this compromise. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply ask for referral to the itre committee for interinstitutional negotiations under rule 59.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, research and innovation are very often the areas where shortsighted policies are applied. we consider them to be of primary importance for the future of our citizens, for the flourishing of our centres of knowledge and for the strength of our enterprises, so that they are able to meet the most important challenges. that is why we have indicated that 120 billion is needed for the horizon europe programme, which is designed to support research and innovation. i would like to stress that, in addition to the need for greater contact with all the stakeholders, we strongly wanted to maintain a tool for incremental research for small and mediumsized enterprises with a specific budget, of course alongside other opportunities for disruptive research. from a pollution and resource perspective, we have struggled to get a commitment to use the entire budget to combat climate change, to increase energy efficiency and to facilitate local self-production and consumption initiatives. the text could have been improved further, but we must not forget that it is the result of a close confrontation with those who have sometimes been more concerned with satisfying the appetites of the big lobbies than with meeting the objective needs of society. but we have reached a compromise position which meets the needs of both the stakeholders and the people. finally, although we will certainly have to be careful in future that the so-called principle of innovation does not backfire on our micro, small and mediumsized enterprises and citizens, we are voting in favour. it is positive because we must not forget that change also comes through support for such important areas as research and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, conflicts of interest, unregulated lobbying, decisions taken behind closed doors and lack of transparency: these are the main problems of this europe, which continues to refuse to face them, and which continue to widen the gap between the citizens and the european union and the european institutions. this is the divide that is presented in this year's ombudsman's report, which involved a whole range of high-level officials in europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, including the introduction of a new system of checks on the movement of goods. the european ombudsman also offers us recommendations and solutions which we can put into practice, and that is what we must do. europe must heed these recommendations, not least because european citizens deserve transparency, they deserve a europe based on ethical and moral integrity principles and they deserve to know how decisions are taken, also to avoid the phenomenon of always blaming brussels because our governments sit at the european council's tables. that is the hope of this report, which i am glad the majority of this house has approved.
