for the efdd group the european council in december was a real feast. with the approaching christmas period without terrorist attacks in the national capitals, the warm embraces, the great mutual understanding and the warm spirit, everyone seems to be satisfied with the discussions and the proposed solutions. the progress made in the negotiations with the uk has been accentuated, and a real assessment of the situation regarding migrant quotas has begun. however, a very large number of union citizens would prefer to see more progress in addressing their daily living, employment, adequate remuneration, housing. they would rather have the opportunity to buy more goods and services for that euro than to have discussions and agreements on the enlargement of the euro area. i still hope that the time will come when the council will not only be discussing preparations for war, but also ways and means of achieving a better life for society in peace and how to ensure that peace.
(initial words inaudible) partners in latin america, our relations are based on political dialogue, trade cooperation, joint efforts to achieve sustainable development and peace-building, which the eu has supported since the very beginning. when, in 2016, one of the most ambitious peace agreements in recent history between the colombian authorities and the farc was signed, the eu reconfirmed its support to peace-building through a financial support package and a trust fund for columbia, with a special focus on economic development and agricultural productivity. nevertheless, recent events show that the peace process in colombia remains challenged and the eu support is of crucial importance. the ceasefire agreement between the colombian government and the eln expired on 9 january without any extension, and the rebels launched a new offensive last week killing members of the security forces, and attacking an important crude oil pipeline. therefore i call on all involved parties to resume the talks on the extension of the ceasefire as soon as possible in order to secure the progress made in peace and confidence-building over the past months. the various attacks by the eln in different parts of colombia are unacceptable. what is needed is a serious and constructive dialogue and the commitment of both parties, the government and the eln, to reach a solution of the conflict through political means. recently we can see that the desire for the continued suspension of military action has been unanimous throughout colombia. the communities have a strong belief in a prosperous future for their country and want to achieve not only peace but also prosperity and good living conditions for all inhabitants. i hope that the colombian government will play a key role in providing the necessary security, administration, healthcare system and infrastructure they need and in helping the local farmers to get better access to the market, and the families of the victims should be high on the political agenda. we should also not forget about the thousands of former rebel combatants whose reintegration into colombian society is a huge and important task for the colombian authorities. a sustained improvement in the humanitarian situation of the communities affected by the conflict can only be realised with a permanent ceasefire. so the eu shall support further the peace process in colombia.
trade agreements are the most important form of development aid. in all fairness and in keeping with our principles, we cannot enter the european market with goods and services produced without respect for the environment. the palm oil produced in the tropical forests and the electricity produced by nuclear power stations which do not meet international standards are just a few examples of the many things that we, as responsible europeans, cannot import. the european union must require that trade agreements with third countries include commitments to respect human rights, to implement production standards and to contribute to global objectives such as climate change mitigation. we must not only demand but also effectively monitor the implementation of such commitments, and we often fail to do so.
so yes, there were good things in the estonian presidency, for example on the energy efficiency of buildings directive, the waste management rules. i am sure that the bulgarian presidency will be just as good. i like the slogan she chose: "united we stand strong!" and it is a good thing to make the union as open as possible to citizens. but this is not the first time that rhetorical questions have been asked. why do those kind words often go unfulfilled? why are the ambitious aims of one or another country's presidency silently buried in the bureaucratic machine of the european union? why is it that as we talk more about the digital economy, the conventional economy is less and less able to provide at least a minimum income to the most vulnerable social groups? the impression is that the priorities are left to the presidency and the real policy is left to others.
even those who have not heard the famous phrase of nazi propaganda minister gebels that a lie repeated a million times becomes the truth can be convinced of its truth by watching the current kremlin-controlled television. this is a matter of concern. even though russia has suffered less from the fall in oil prices and far less from the sanctions imposed by the european union, it still sends thousands of false and hateful messages every year, at a cost of tens of millions of euros. russia, by the way, being held hostage by the putin regime, is not the only source of this threat. the information threat posed by radical religious movements has decreased in recent times, but this does not mean that it has disappeared. it is good to see that the european union institutions have already recognised the dangers of hostile propaganda. until a few years ago, only individual member states were talking about such information threats. i am convinced that by strengthening strategic communication, we are on the right track. at the same time, i would like to stress that we must start building europe's resilience to propaganda from the ground up - by raising awareness among citizens.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, a massive wave of kremlin-produced propaganda flooded the continent, from vladivostok to lisbon. it finally ended up across the atlantic, just to find washington dc equally unprepared. this was also the case with the political waters in london, paris, madrid and barcelona. i particularly appreciate the title of today’s debate on russia. it is precise concerning the russian propaganda which aims to influence eu countries, meaning us! the eu’s response to this hybrid warfare will not be policing the media. our response must be an effective eu media policy set up to defend our liberal european democracy, basic values and way of life. lastly, in shaping the eu’s media policy, we must certainly not be limited only to election periods as putin’s foreign services, troll factories and bots are on duty 24/7.
the european union's response to the threat of russian aggression has been weak so far, because a large part of our political elite, especially in western europe, still does not recognise this threat. the kremlin's aggressive actions are unprecedented since the end of the cold war. these include the occupation and annexation of foreign territories by force, the continuous violation of the borders and airspace of other states, the unprecedented use of disinformation, the hostile interference in democratic elections and the continuous cyber attacks. the fact that the united states is investigating a clearly hostile intrusion into its democracy's stronghold, the electoral process, such investigations have not been initiated anywhere in europe, although cases of russian interference in the netherlands, the united kingdom, france, germany are obvious. we therefore need to identify russia as a major source of hostile disinformation and take immediate practical action to: (1) recognize the threat; (2) investigate and publicly expose hostile russian activities; (3) increase stratcomm's capabilities to the level required; and (4) raise awareness beyond the professional community.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the femm committee recognises the contribution of the youth initiative to reducing youth unemployment and ensuring gender equality, with approximately 48% of men and 52% of women having benefited from the opportunities offered by the initiative. however, we still see a lack of statistical data broken down by gender, and it is therefore important that member states collect more accurate data and that the commission carries out an appropriate impact assessment in order to get a better picture of how this initiative contributes to tackling the problem of unemployment among young women and men and what more could and should be done. i also call on member states to develop new innovative and more personalised approaches that are both high quality and sustainable and that improve the chances of young women returning to the labour market or to education, for example through the provision of childcare and adult care services. it is equally important to support the inclusion of girls and women in all sectors of the economy and, despite the progress made in the youth employment initiative, it is necessary to continue this initiative with additional funding.
in writing. as we can see, the commission's 2016 progress report on trafficking in human beings found that 76% of registered victims are women and at least 15% are children. most of the registered victims are citizens of the european union. despite the adoption of directives aimed at combating trafficking in human beings, the number of victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploitation at work is increasing. with regard to severe exploitation at work and sexual exploitation in the various sectors concerned, it is necessary to assess the compliance of member states with the abovementioned directives and with the duty of due diligence to protect workers and to carry out inspections to detect cases of exploitation at work and to protect the victims. so i would like to ask the commission what action it is taking against member states which do not comply with the directives mentioned above. i would also like to know what specific measures the commission will take to address the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings, sexual violence and exploitation at work. i would urge the commission to review and assess the investigative actions taken in relation to those countries where sexual exploitation and exploitation at work are most prevalent. it is also essential to ensure that perpetrators of such crimes are prosecuted.
for the verts/ale group i join in congratulating the rapporteur, indeed, on a job well done, and i consider the right of european citizens to be employed in any member state one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. the free movement of professionals within the single market is a practical example of how the european social and economic model works. it is true that regulation of professional activities is a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of public services and protecting the public interest, and that quality education must therefore be a key priority for all member states. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the experience of implementing the directive is not unequivocally encouraging. we have many examples of professionals who want to work in another member state facing logically inexplicable obstacles: administrative requirements, lengthy procedures or the obvious obstacle to obtaining the necessary information. we in the green group supported the proportionality test proposed by the commission for the new professional requirements. it was to be a good tool for solving the problems of the citizens. unfortunately, member states do not always have the luxury of applying transparent professional requirements. this is borne out by the fact that many people work abroad. the document under discussion is a good opportunity to remind member states of their commitment to ensuring that all european citizens have access to employment based on their qualifications. i would point out that the principle of good administration requires, first of all, that the shortcomings in the implementation of the existing regulation be addressed, all the more so since the problems arise mainly in the field of implementation of the provisions of the directive, the supervision of which is entrusted to the commission. the commission has to deal with its day-to-day work and the commission's ambition to close these gaps, as just stated, is to be welcomed.
in writing. ensuring high standards of human rights protection is a duty of every member state, which means that the state must take active action when the health or life of its population is at risk. i would like to stress that this also means that all possible and necessary conditions must be created for the provision of humanitarian aid: the provision of the necessary hygiene facilities, food, water supplies. i am firmly convinced that the social, economic and political development of the congo can only be achieved if the conflict is resolved peacefully and politically: if the crimes committed in the country are prevented, if mass killings are prevented and if those who foment and perpetrate armed conflict are held to account. stabilising the political situation in the drc would contribute to the creation of a peaceful global political atmosphere, which is vital for the continued growth of european and global states in all economic and social spheres.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the future regulation on geo-blocking is a big step towards strengthening the e-commerce sector in europe. it will give eu citizens access to a wider choice of goods and services. today only 15% of europeans buy products from online shops based in another eu country. one of the main reasons is precisely the geo-blocking practice, and we need to get rid of this. eu citizens have a right to be able to shop online in another eu country just like the locals do. that is the core idea behind the digital single market that we have been working on in the european parliament. i would like to thank the epp rapporteur, ms róża thun, for her commitment and a great job during the negotiation process with the commission and the council during the estonian presidency. the agreement between the council and the parliament will remove barriers to e-commerce by avoiding discrimination based on a consumer’s nationality, place of residence or place of establishment. it will prevent discrimination for consumers and companies based on access to prices, sales or payment conditions when buying products and services in another eu country. eu consumers will benefit now from better prices when buying online, and traders will be protected with a clearer set of rules laid down in this draft regulation. it is unfortunate that the inclusion of non-audiovisual copyrighted content in the scope of the regulation was rejected by the council. i, as shadow rapporteur on this file in the committee on legal affairs (juri), together with ms thun, will work towards a review in two years’ time. all in all i believe it is a balanced approach.
for the efdd group it is good that at least the future of the european union is being discussed. it's finally acknowledging that the present is not so good and it's not satisfying us. the problems of migration, social exclusion, unemployment, many others, the more we discuss them, the more these problems become clearer, sometimes more acute. but just three hours of such a debate once a month in the european parliament, with the head of government of one country presenting his point of view, is, in my view, too little. at this rate, the 27th eu head of government's approach to the problems and sharing of proposals with the european parliament will not be forthcoming until the spring of 2020. do we have that much time for discussion? and while it has been mentioned that the prime minister's view would be, it is nevertheless very interesting to hear what the prime minister thinks specifically about the creation of a european security and defence union. i understand that you support the provision to increase the volume and efficiency of defence spending. or should we invest in education, culture, social services, science, sport? what about globalisation, mr prime minister, is it positive or negative? shouldn't the european union be defending small countries like your croatia and my lithuania? could you give us your specific view on the catalan independence movement? would you see the european union as a banner of nations, or would you advocate democratic processes? do you support the introduction of a single european currency in all community countries? it would be good if we could all think together about how to address the demographic problem and how to boost the birth rate. how can we reduce youth unemployment through real solutions rather than mere talk? and the problem of migration? what is the solution? the problems of democracy should not be forgotten. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. do you want a new european federation without independent states? i think that the forthcoming european parliament elections next year are a perfect opportunity to hold such a referendum in each country.
madam president, 63% of eu websites use geo-blocking tactics which discriminate against online shoppers based on their place of residence or so-called temporary location. i believe that this violates our ambitions to create a genuine digital single market, and thus these practices should be tackled. therefore, i truly welcome the commission’s strategy based on more transparency and a ban on blocking website access, as well as defining situations in which geo-blocking would not be allowed. the decision we just made is truly going in the right direction.
madam president, this report is very important as it reports on the eurosystem’s monetary policy 2016. we have emphasised that the european central bank should remain free of any political interference and reaffirmed the european central bank’s mandate for price stability, which was especially crucial in response to the crises and the challenges. in addition, we called on the european central bank for more transparency and accountability, especially towards the european parliament, and stressed that it is of the utmost importance that ecb actions are complemented by sound fiscal policies and structural reforms performed by member states to generate growth and jobs, apart from stability.
madam president, i supported this text which we voted on today. the text welcomes the commission’s communication on accelerating clean energy innovation. we needed this action and we got this result today. this proposal lays out a strategy using a market-based approach, which would help to accelerate private investment to boost clean energy innovation. i am very hopeful that in this way we can ensure a better funding of energy science and technology, and create a dynamic business environment for energy innovations. the environment will benefit from those innovations and people will live in a cleaner environment as well.
the author. today, on the international day for the elimination of female genital mutilation, we must take a broader approach to combating all forms of violence against women and girls, as the european union is committed to working together to stop female genital mutilation and to supporting member states' efforts in this area. according to the world health organisation, around 200 million women and girls worldwide are currently living with the consequences of female genital mutilation, and the european institute for gender equality reports cases of women and girls suffering from this injury in at least 13 member states of the european union. in this context, the commission notes that the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is not a fundamental principle of the union's legal order. the criminal law of all the member states of the european union provides, directly or indirectly, for the protection of girls and women against female genital mutilation, but we in the european parliament are very concerned that it appears to be ineffective, given the limited number of cases brought in the european union. there are many reasons for this. it is therefore essential that we remove obstacles in the member states' laws to bring proceedings for female genital mutilation, taking into account, in particular, the best interests of the child, as this shameful procedure is carried out before girls reach puberty. of course, prevention would be a far more effective and desirable way to combat this phenomenon. sadly, this is not always possible. that is why we must ensure that prosecution can take place, that it can act as a deterrent and protect at least future victims. as regards prevention, it should be noted that female genital mutilation is one of the most predictable forms of gender-based violence. i would therefore urge both the commission and the member states to ensure that strong preventive action is taken in refugee camps. i also encourage and respect the commission to continue to include the prevention of female genital mutilation and other harmful practices in integration procedures and the asylum migration integration fund and to provide relevant information through the eu asylum agency. another preventive measure would be to establish a higher level of protection for asylum seekers seeking asylum on grounds of female genital mutilation, of course in the context of the reform of the european asylum system and the revision of the asylum directives. stakeholders seeking to end this practice take the view that there is a need to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation and to integrate the issue of female genital mutilation into all sectors: health, social work, asylum, education, law enforcement, justice, child protection, media and communication, as the impact of female genital mutilation or the risk thereof has a multifaceted impact on the lives of girls and women. measures must be developed in all these sectors to provide adequate protection and services to women, girls or potential victims. fifteen years ago, the commission informed parliament of its efforts to abolish female genital mutilation. however, today i am once again asking the commission to give an overview of the progress made and the actions taken so far. what specific action has the commission taken to integrate the prevention of fgm into all relevant policy and legislative programmes of the various directorates-general, in order to ensure that this issue is addressed in all the sectors mentioned? what follow-up is being given to the integrated policy instruments and what cooperation mechanisms are being implemented? furthermore, how will the commission integrate its efforts and coordinate member states' actions to combat female genital mutilation in the wider gender-based violence agenda under the istanbul convention? and how will female genital mutilation be addressed in the newly launched eu-un flagship initiative on ending violence against women and girls? thank you and we look forward to your response.
the announcement that serbia and montenegro will be ready to join the european union in 2025 is both exhilarating and disturbing. as we all remember, the 2004 enlargement brought 12 new member states into the european union, whose inhabitants were described by some analysts as ideal europeans. we are also talking about the fact that some of the people in these countries consider themselves to be second-class europeans, despite the active cohesion policy. while welcoming the potential member states with open arms, we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the european union's expansion is not politicised, because the price of this is the inevitable collapse of illusions and the rise of euroscepticism, not only in the new countries but also in the old ones. preparations for accession must be pragmatic, with both the european union and the candidate countries making an adequate and fair assessment of progress towards the eu's accession.
as regards the growing impact of social and economic inequalities on european citizens, the first question to be answered is: what is being done to make them grow? is it possible that this social exclusion is increasing by means of constant intimidation, by means of military threats and by means of financing the creation of new military units and a military industry in europe itself? while the gods of war grow richer, society grows poorer. i believe that the fight against social exclusion will only be a verbal one, until the time comes when youth unemployment, politicians' service to oligarchic capital, the propaganda of globalism and poverty in society will become the catalyst that will ignite the fires of civil resistance in individual european countries.
today, as i speak from this podium about the growing economic and social inequalities, i would like to draw the attention of all - both of you, madam commissioner, and of the presidency, and of my colleagues - first of all to our little citizens, to our children. let's answer the question: are we able to provide them with a normal life, are they getting proper nutrition, quality education, health care, are we investing enough in our children to end their poverty and inequality? the answer is unequivocal. of course not. i therefore appeal to you once again, commissioner, and to the member states, to draw up and adopt without delay a child guarantee, under which we could put in place specific, financially sound measures to combat child poverty. listen, over 20 million children are poor in the european union. so you can't touch it anymore. and especially now that we are considering and preparing the multiannual financial perspective, let us make financial investments in the children of the european union. and that will be our greatest achievement. and the second thing i want to highlight is the huge disparity between men and women. so far, the gender pay gap for the same job is 16 percent, and the pension gap is the same. we get them 40 percent smaller. and it takes work and effort.
in writing. the financial management of the guarantee fund is of paramount importance in the light of the financial interests of the european union. the communication rightly notes that the financial management of the guarantee fund should be taken over by the commission from the eib. the commission has a long-standing practice of similar investment management. governance should be conducted in accordance with the highest standards of transparency and democratic accountability. by taking over the management of the assets of the guarantee fund, the commission should further streamline and consolidate the activities of the fund's asset management and further improve the performance achieved by the fund. the delegation of management should lead to savings for the general budget of the union and enable the commission to provide the european parliament with better and more accurate information on the management and situation of the guarantee fund. the report should also contain detailed information on the use of the fund and on the progress made in financing projects in the beneficiary countries. this will promote transparency in the eu institutions.
in writing. there are still a number of countries in different regions of the world where women who are active in civil or political life and in the defence of human rights face discrimination, threats and even violence. one such country is belarus, a neighbour of lithuania and the eu, where socially and politically active women who contribute to the building of a democratic society in belarus through their activities and experiences are persecuted or repressed. in addition, the belarusian authorities apply different repressive measures to women human rights defenders than to men. men who defend human rights are usually fined or imprisoned. meanwhile, women human rights defenders may face a variety of repressive measures, including mental health facilities, deprivation of maternity rights, dismissal from work, humiliation, forced divorce or confiscation of property. they are subjected to a wide range of forms of persecution, all aimed at humiliating women and destroying their identities. the situation is therefore very complex and i support the call on the commission to start taking a gender perspective into account in its work with human rights defenders worldwide, because as we see from country-specific examples, support must be targeted and protection must be provided for particularly vulnerable groups such as women. now is the right time to raise this issue and i hope that the commission will give priority to the identification of appropriate funding for the activities of human rights defenders, especially women human rights defenders.
member of the commission. – madam president, i welcome the debate and your different suggestions. let me get back to you on a few of the points. first of all, let me stress again that the time shift has to be coordinated through eu rules. uncoordinated national time change in the course of the year would create very significant problems for the good functioning of our internal market, notably in the transport sector. if we ever decided to stop changing the clock, it has to be done throughout the eu in a synchronised and unified manner. regarding health problems, it is true that the body has to adapt to the time change in march and october. some people are more vulnerable and have more issues with the change than others. that is true. on the other hand, as some of you pointed out, other studies show that longer exposure to daylight and more opportunities for leisure and sport have a positive effect on people’s health. whether these gains compensate for the disturbance remains unclear, but i can see that this is an important topic for you and the citizens that you represent. i am very much looking forward to the vote and the resolution later today.
in writing. – i support the motion for a resolution by the european parliament which calls on the european commission to end the twice—yearly switch between summer and winter time. and there is a good reason for that. last october, the european parliament’s research service published a study on eu summer—time arrangements. it emphasised that the benefits of daylight saving time are ‘marginal’ – because what you save on light you spend on heating. it also found that negative consequences for health are ‘more severe’ than previously thought. also, animals suffer from the biannual time change, which has a negative impact in the member states where agriculture delivers strong economic value. the european commission has to come up with a proposal regarding this issue. however, depending on the proposal, i believe that we still have to support a harmonised approach on this matter across the union.
author. – madam president, sergei kovalev, a prominent russian dissident, upon receiving the sakharov prize in 2009 on behalf of memorial addressed this very hall with the following words: ‘it is europe’s duty not to remain silent but, again and again, to repeat and remind, and insist respectfully and firmly that russia meet its obligations … failure to remind will certainly be understood by the russian authorities as indulgence’. this was the call of a wise man who spent 10 years of his life in soviet jails and labour camps. a call more than ever valid today when we see european leaders queuing up for yet another business contract to be blessed by the kremlin. to maintain and fully implement effective sanctions must be the eu’s response to russia’s authoritarian elites and their aggressive policy.
author. – madam president, egypt has gone through several difficult challenges since the 2011 revolution, and the international community is supporting the country in its economic, political and security challenges. frequent terrorist attacks, for example on the sinai peninsula, and all other acts of terrorism against egypt, as well as the constant attacks on christian copts, imply a worrying development. nevertheless, this cannot be an excuse for the egyptian authorities to continue carrying out capital punishment, which is inhuman and degrading. i am seriously concerned about the mass trials conducted by egyptian courts and the large number of death sentences. i urge the egyptian authorities to put an immediate and definitive end to such practices and to reverse the death sentences that have been handed down. i call on the authorities to establish immediately an official moratorium on executions, as a first step towards abolition. we, the eu, strongly condemn the use of the death penalty. i call on the egyptian authorities to stick to their international commitments in the field of human rights.
in writing. it is necessary to ensure strict compliance with the standards for the protection of children's rights, both at national and international levels. haiti shall take effective and immediate measures to prevent the trafficking of children, slavery, exploitation, rape or any other inhumane treatment. the younger generation is the foundation and future of society and must be guaranteed quality education, health care, employment and other guarantees necessary for personal development. the state of haiti urgently needs a sustainable legal framework and strong enforcement of these norms in order to restore the socio-economic situation of the country, prevent the trafficking of children and slavery, riots, unrest, increased crime and a humanitarian crisis. i would stress that it is of particular importance for haiti to develop international cooperation in the field of human rights in order to prevent child slavery as soon as possible, to enable victims to be rehabilitated, to restore their emotional and psychological state and to guarantee their sustainable development.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the current human rights situation in turkey as i am deeply concerned about the situation. the government’s repressive measures under the state of emergency are disproportionate and they breach the basic rights and freedoms enshrined in international conventions to which turkey is a state party. the lack of respect for the freedom of religion and increased discrimination against christians is as worrying as the imprisonment of a large number of members of the democratic opposition and journalists like the german, deniz yucel, human rights defenders like peace activist, osman kavala, lawyers, civil society representatives and nearly five thousand academics in turkey. i expect a candidate country to uphold the highest standards of democracy, including respect for human rights, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, such as the freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and association, as fundamental pillars of any democratic society.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in venezuela. we must stand together with the venezuelan people in their fight for human rights and democratic ruling of the country. we condemn the decision of the illegitimate national constituent assembly to call early presidential elections by the end of april 2018. it is of the utmost importance to continue imposing eu sanctions and in particular to extend them to the main perpetrators responsible for the increased political, social, economic and humanitarian crisis, namely president nicolás maduro and his inner circle, vice-president tareck el aissami, minister of defence vladimir padrino lopez and the high military command. i call on the high representative, madame mogherini, to take the necessary measures in this regard. the elections in venezuela must be free and fair without any discrimination, qualifications or political prisoners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the very idea of the european union is built on democracy, common values and human rights. moreover, as a leading global player, we have a clear-cut responsibility to never compromise on the protection of basic rights and freedoms worldwide. voicing resolute declarations, this is what we are good at. however, let us admit that we often get confused when our economic interests are at stake. take turkey or russia, saudi arabia or cambodia, or many other places around the globe, this space of freedom is shrinking. future generations will judge us according to the extent to which we are standing for each and every human rights defender at this very moment, here and now. furthermore, we should do our utmost in order to strengthen our engagement in stopping the ongoing atrocities in such countries as syria, yemen, myanmar, congo and others. we have the means and the ways. what we miss is political will. finally, there are undoubtedly very visible cases of a positive change in our close neighbourhood in particular. they must be saluted and acknowledged as a solid basis to further enhance our relations with these partners.
in writing. this report on human rights in the eu in 2016 focuses on women's rights and gender equality. in particular, it is necessary to recall that women and children are at increased risk of being victims of trafficking, exploitation and sexual violence, and therefore child protection systems need to be developed and strengthened to prevent violence against, abuse, neglect and exploitation of children. we strongly condemn the intensification of trafficking in human beings, whose perpetrators must be held accountable and brought to justice. member states should also cooperate more closely and take a more active role in combating not only organised crime, including trafficking in human beings and human trafficking, but also exploitation, forced labour, sexual exploitation and torture, while protecting victims. secondly, we are still unable to address the high gender gap - the gender pay gap of over 16% - which has a negative impact on women's pensions, which are 40% lower than men's. as a result, women are more at risk of poverty and exclusion in old age. we therefore call on member states to develop appropriate policy measures to support older women and to address the structural causes of gender-based pay gaps. finally, we must continue to urge member states to ratify the istanbul convention, as we have a duty to combat violence against women, and more than a third of all eu countries have not yet ratified it.
for the verts/ale group i really welcome and am pleased with the work done by the rapporteur, which i think is particularly important in the context of today. i would also like to draw attention to two key gaps that we need to address. this is primarily the transparency of banking activities. while the banking system is considered too important to be radically reformed, transparency and, in particular, effective measures to destroy tax havens would make it more difficult for terrorism to be financed and would contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. the second is ideological. most terrorist groups are religious. it is perhaps time to think about the fact that europe should take real action to encourage the emergence of democratic religious movements as a kind of analogue of the christian democratic party. this would provide a viable alternative to religious extremism and would allow representatives of currently marginalised faiths to express themselves in democratic political life.
in writing. madam president, the world and europe have been confronted with islamist terrorism for many years. one of the key elements of the fight against terrorism is to disrupt the sources of its financing, including through the use of clandestine channels of fraud and tax evasion, money laundering and tax havens. unfortunately, legitimate origin funding may be directed by the recipient to third parties, individuals, groups, undertakings or entities associated with terrorist activities. it is worth noting that terrorism is a global crime and that an effective response also needs to be global and comprehensive, with international coordination between financial institutions, law enforcement and judicial authorities, and that the exchange of information on natural and legal persons and suspicious activities is necessary, bearing in mind that the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy are important fundamental rights. in this regard, it is worth supporting the entry in the report calling on the council of the eu to strengthen the application of targeted sanctions and other restrictive measures to all persons and entities that provide economic resources in any way to isis/da'esh, al-qaida or other jihadist groups.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must indeed be a leader in ensuring women's rights, empowerment and equal opportunities. in particular, we must give rural women as many opportunities as possible to have a proper education, to have a safe, well-paid job, to have access to high-quality health care, and, of course, to combat all forms of violence against women, while ensuring that even the most remote women have equal access to the necessary assistance. women's work in rural areas is very often paid less than men's work and is not even officially recognised, so i really call for the empowerment of rural women to move from the informal to the formal economy and to recognise that rural women work in a variety of fields and are more likely to drive change by creating sustainable and ecological agriculture. it is also necessary to ensure full access to appropriate childcare services in residential and rural areas.
in writing. – female empowerment is becoming more and more important on the agendas of international organisations such as the un, which is a great success. however, there is still a lot of work that needs to be done. i congratulate the rapporteurs for their work on the report. they touched upon important issues such as women’ accessibility to formal and informal education, especially in rural areas, the promotion of digital skills and the use of ict. i believe that in this digital age the promotion of digital skills is the main solution to help women, especially those living in rural areas, to increase gender equality, reduce the wage gap between men and women, as well as to give women equal opportunities. therefore, i encourage the creation of informal programmes such as coder dojo that we have here in europe which encourages boys and especially girls to learn digital skills such as coding. we firstly have to change the attitude that ict technologies are ‘only for boys’. it should not be covered by gender prejudices. i believe that access to ict is the most effective way forward for female empowerment.
in writing. the decision of the bulgarian presidency of the european union not to ratify the istanbul convention on combating violence against women and domestic violence is deeply regrettable. the delay in ratifying the convention, not only for bulgaria but also for other eu countries that have not yet done so, is very damaging and unjustified. violence against women is one of the most serious human rights violations, which has no geographical, economic, cultural or social boundaries. furthermore, domestic violence affects all family members, especially children, directly and indirectly. the problem of violence against women is a much-talked-about problem, but statistics show that we are still failing to protect women from these crimes. we cannot support or tolerate violence and we must remember that all programmes and measures to stop violence against women will only succeed if women are assured that they will be taken care of when they speak out about violence, that they will be provided with psychological and social support, health care and that the perpetrators and perpetrators will be punished. the istanbul convention provides for such measures and is therefore subject to ratification by bulgaria and the other member states.
in writing. – dear president, dear colleagues, the uk is an important member of the eu and it is important that it would remain an important and close ally of the eu after brexit. therefore, i support the resolution of the european parliament were it states that close cooperation is foreseen between the eu and the uk in international security, foreign policy, research and development, education. also, the negotiation process most importantly has to secure citizen’s rights and their free movement which has been of the core values of the eu. it has to remain this way. in regards to the eu single market, the eu should stand firm for the values it represents and the uk has to respect the values and rules which come. if it doesn’t want to ‘play’ by them, then the uk cannot enjoy the eu single market. a pick-and-mix approach for a non-member state should not be an option. therefore, i support the common line by the eu, that free trade agreement will be offered as an alternative.
the european union is suffering from a cancer of bureaucratic short-sightedness. the agendas of virtually all the institutions, with the exception of the council, are overloaded with complex issues and outdated issues that merely simulate problem solving. the european union today is incapable of grasping and managing the general economic and social processes which will be decisive for the community's future. the economic and social disparities between the countries are so great that even euro area countries, such as lithuania, are in danger of losing all their human capital in the long run. it is more like a fictitious economic union that does not work in reality, in which there are no common policy criteria and rules, and the principle of free movement of labour has become a thorn in the side of mass migration. i think that the responsible european institutions should be much more sensitive to reflect such negative processes in the member states, which not only do not allow us to speak of human well-being, but also bear witness to increasing social exclusion, poverty and discrimination. i believe it is time to put an end to this long political spectacle and return to the common political agenda, to the search for ways of implementing the european union's fundamental objectives and priorities.
mr president, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) between the eu and cuba can be seen as a new chapter in eu-cuba relations. this agreement provides for enhanced political dialogue, improved bilateral cooperation and joint action in multilateral fora. for the eu, the pdca is a tool for supporting a process of change and modernisation in cuba. for cuba, it represents the so-called normalisation of the relationship with important and economic and trade partners and helps to diversify its external obligations. the forthcoming eu-cuba joint ministerial council is an important gathering which should aim to discuss important political issues, trade and investment, as much as human rights. economic, political and social modernisation is vitally important for the country. however, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms must go hand in hand with placing eu-cuba relations on a higher level. we know that the human rights situation is getting worse. violations of freedom of religion or belief in cuba have been on a steep rise. in this situation, the eu cannot be sidelined. the possibility of applying human rights clauses as an integral part of the agreement must be clearly and openly discussed during the joint council meeting. and the eu should raise the question of religious freedom in cuba and should encourage cuba to fully ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, central asia has the potential to be a major gateway between europe and asia with a growing market and significant potential for investment and trade, so the eu’s new strategy for central asia should provide a more forward-looking and goal-oriented vision and supporting tools. it would also help to respond adequately and timely to current challenges such as the ongoing democratisation processes in the region, fighting terrorism and extremism, as well as environmental issues. in general, over the past years the geo-political environment has changed significantly in the region. the us has lost prestige, and its presence and its interest is decreasing in the region. the european union, in spite of losing a bit of attraction because of the financial and refugee crisis and brexit, can stay as active as china and russia in the region – of course, not in a similar scope yet, but the eu is still key to central asia and its future. two new regional initiatives, china’s obor and the russian-led eurasian economic union, are taking the lead in investment and could potentially transform central asia’s political landscape, so the necessary instruments should be implemented in central asian countries in order to keep russia’s and china’s political and economic influence under control. the eu should focus on realistic initiatives that fit with the existing regional projects, and the eu needs to be more actively present in each country of central asia in order to address the emerging geopolitical challenges and expand cooperation with the countries of the region.
mr president, i support this resolution as a blueprint for governing the future relations between the european union and the uk after the uk’s withdrawal takes place. it is important to provide maximum certainty for our citizens and businesses as soon as possible. thus, the resolution proposes setting up a well—defined governance framework for a comprehensive association and partnership. it highlights four main pillars for our future relationship, such as economic relations, foreign affairs, security and thematic cooperation. however, if the citizens’ rights issues must be resolved on the basis of mutual respect and reciprocity, the future cooperation in the fields of security and defence should be based – and i hope it will happen – on the realistic assessment of european security needs.
the european union's lofty objectives can only be achieved by ensuring sufficient funding and support for both traditional and new policies. a solid, flexible and forward-looking budgetary policy of the european union can give the necessary impetus to the competitiveness, innovation and job creation of our economies. finally, the budget of the european union must be linked to the elections to the european parliament, i.e. to a political cycle of five years, rather than to the biological cycle of life of europeans of seven years. it is clear that further economic convergence of the member states, the absence of distortions in the internal markets and the measurement of results achieved and transparency must remain the main principles of budgetary planning in the european union. the multiannual budget of the european union must be the basis for the implementation of the political ideas and ambitions of the european union.
mr president, i support the proposed reform of the european union system of own resources which, among other things, addresses the brexit budget gap arising after the uk’s withdrawal. currently, national contributions based on the gni resource represent around 83% of overall eu revenue which, regrettably, results in the ‘fewer returns’ logic which hijacks budgetary discussions in the council, as everybody knows exactly how much they have put in. the new own resources system will significantly reduce national contributions by member states and would use a basket approach, reinforcing eu policies with added value. i believe this proposal would not only lead to more transparency, but, as well, a better understanding of the union’s budget to all our citizens.
in writing. this communication on the quality of better services in the area of skills and qualifications addresses important issues for the future. the objective is to ensure transparency of qualifications and competences of eu citizens within and between member states, including through online tools, information and the development of open standards to better ensure the transparency and understanding of skills and qualifications. europass should aim to improve understanding of learning in both formal and non-formal learning and in the home, as well as learning from experience. under the new europass system provided for in this regulation, existing europass services are adapted to the needs and expectations of users and providers, i.e. learners, jobseekers, employers (in particular small and medium-sized enterprises), public employment services, career guidance professionals, education and training providers, social partners, volunteers, youth organisations, youth work providers, national europass centres and the responsible national authorities. all measures and tools should be properly designed and coordinated in such a way that their specific objectives are not misunderstood and that the possibilities of the europass are not exceeded and other legal provisions are not impeded.
in writing. the protection and proper enforcement of human rights is the duty of every state and the basis for sustainable development. effective action must be taken as a matter of urgency to effectively prevent the practice of killing disabled children, motivated by the belief that such children would rather die than suffer a painful and incurable disability. mothers who don't kill disabled children are condemned by society. the problem should be addressed through quality educational and training measures, such as seminars and special training for adults, and the inclusion of lectures on the right of persons with disabilities to healthy development in society in the curriculum of schools and higher education institutions. it is also necessary to promote political cooperation with uganda by supporting the efforts of the ugandan government, ngos and civil society to develop and implement policies addressing the needs and rights of persons with disabilities.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that the discussion has shown that we share the same vision and have a very significant role to play. let me add a few comments based on the discussion, to which i have listened very carefully. on digitalisation: we have a tendency to say that digitalisation is a great opportunity for society, and it must be an opportunity for women as well. this is a positive vision. i will add a negative view: if we do not support women and girls to get into the digital sphere as professionals, as experts, we will undertake a very serious risk because digitalisation has the potential to increase the gaps in society, and we have to actively work against this. that is why the commission, as i described at the beginning, is undertaking a lot of steps and is funding a lot of projects to boost the potential of women and to encourage young girls to study the relevant subjects. this is the problem, in practice: i have many debates with the captains of the it industry because, thanks to other parts of my portfolio, i am in very frequent contact with the managers of big it companies, and i urge them to give more chances – at least equal opportunities – for women to get to higher positions and to get better jobs. they keep convincing me that women are not in the pipeline, but i always say that they do not have to be technicians or programmers or specialists for it, for the technologies – they can be marketing experts; they can be lawyers employed in the it sector. i think this is also a way to get women into this very promising and emerging sector and also, among other things, to get to higher positions and to the better paid jobs in order to decrease the pay gap, because i think we are working on several different things here. on media: we are witnessing a very worrying trend, because online hate speech and violence online is now more and more discouraging women journalists from doing their jobs. we have statistical figures that show that women are much higher victims and targets of online violence than men. simply, the attackers recognise women as the weaker part of society, and that is why they are attacked more frequently. i have had many debates with the it industry: we are urging the it companies to delete hate speech against many groups of our society, including women. i am urging law enforcement authorities in all the member states to react and to find the perpetrators, to find the attackers and to punish them, because online violence is a huge problem for the whole of society and is already very negatively affecting the freedom of work of journalists – especially women. we have to be better in this, because this is a very serious problem. lastly, i want to explain my approach to the quota, which has been discussed here as well. my approach is that women must be guaranteed fair competition. i said many times that positive discrimination for me is not the option, but we have to ensure that there will be fair competition; if the candidates are equally qualified, if they have similar experience, i don’t see any reason why men should always get priority. there should be fair competition: i know i am repeating it for the third time, but if we manage this it will not only be good for women; it will be good for society, because our labour market, our it sector, our other promising sectors need more talents and we need to use the potential of women for the good of the whole society. thank you very much for this debate. again, i want to thank the rapporteurs for attracting our attention to these very important topics, and i am ready to cooperate with parliament in the future because we have to join forces. we have to encourage the member states, but also the universities, the politicians on all levels and the opinion leaders, because i think that to achieve what we want to achieve in the field of gender equality we need also the change the mindset of our society, and there is much more work to be done.
in writing. this report from the european parliament addresses the issue of gender equality in the eu media. the media is the fourth power, and it has a great influence on politics and society. we therefore need to make a strong effort to ensure that it is properly and balanced, and this inevitably includes ensuring gender balance. given that both public and private media are intended to serve the whole of society, their structure and operation should reflect the fact that women constitute half of society. the report focuses on the situation of women working as reporters and commentators in the media, but also highlights the lack of women in decision-making positions. the latter situation is of particular concern: only 30-40% of women hold senior positions in the media sector, although the majority of media studies graduates are women. such imbalances can not only undermine media content and choice of topics, but also contribute to the overall increase in the gender pay and pension gap. women reporters and presenters also face significant challenges: they face enormous pressure to meet high standards of appeal to audiences, and they are rarely assigned to work on important political or economic issues. the situation of women is often complicated by the increased need to balance family (maternal) and professional responsibilities. we'd like to offer as much support as we can in this area.
in writing. – i would like to thank the rapporteur for this motion for a resolution and talking about this important topic. indeed, the participation of women and girls in the digital sector is still very low. whether we talk about learning digital skills or working in the ict sector, the situation is desperate now. we already lack it professionals in europe and the number can only increase. this is where the increased participation of women in the it sector could make a real difference. we want to lead in innovation but we can’t do it without enough it professionals. in order to encourage women to increase their interest in the it sector we should not only try to change gender stereotypes about the sector, encourage mentorship programmes within companies, but also start more serious changes. we have to change our education systems. it classes have to be mandatory starting from the first grade in the eu. that’s how girls would be able to engage more in digital sector and to understand that they have a lot of potential, and that it is an interesting field not only for boys.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in march 1946 george orwell, who coined the term ‘cold war’, spoke about it for the second time ever when he wrote in the observer. i quote: ‘after the moscow conference last december, russia began to make a cold war on britain and the british empire’. history is repeating itself isn’t it? over these days, and in particular after the salisbury attack, the term ‘cold war’ is now on our lips and in our minds once again. the cold war was the environment that putin was raised in. it formed his mindset, it made his kgb career. it was his comfort zone, which he wants to get back into. all his arsenal is set ready – propaganda, spy games, regional and civil conflicts. so we are facing the 21st century cold war, different from the previous one: undeclared, more hybrid and less ideological. colleagues, to deter russian aggression, our response must be based on sanctions and unity of our action. i strongly believe that additional sanctions must be imposed this time to target specifically those russian tycoons and oligarchs, true enablers of putin, who fund operations worth billions, such as propaganda campaigns or sending mercenaries to syria and ukraine. the eu must join the united states without delay in supporting action to counter these adversaries, in the shape of the recently adopted sanctions act. only by taking these steps together, as a truly united transatlantic community, can we contain russia and avoid further escalating this new cold war, which we don’t like at all.
madam president! following the results of such elections in russia and the deteriorating situation, it is likely that putin's anti-western policies and orientation will only intensify. new incidents are to be expected. at present, the western response to russian aggression is intensified by us sanctions, while the response of some countries to syria is somewhat silent in the face of the strong and principled voice of the european union. and not just a voice, but action. the nord stream 2 project, which is dividing europe and is very dangerous geopolitically, is unfortunately, but not to mention all events, successfully paving the way. we need the european commission to provide strong leadership and a position that is relevant to the current realities. (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the question posed by the blue card. i didn't just talk about sanctions, but i think that sanctions do have an impact and perhaps the most important thing now is that the european union commission has to say its clear, firm and permanent position on the actions of russia, which are, let's say, being carried out. only if the position also mentioned by the commissioner on the implementation of the minsk agreement and other issues is not respected.
yesterday, here in this hall, i heard president macron. i quote: 'the future of europe is decided here, in the european parliament.' if so, mr tajani, then stop the hopelessly late and pointless debate on the last summit meeting in march. replace the debate with a demand for a new summit meeting that would finally answer the questions of concern to all: does military action no longer require a un mandate? are the military actions of two community members consistent with a common european defence policy? is this the new european or world order?
madam president, there is some good news in this situation: that we have implemented gdpr and are going to be leading the world forward in protecting people’s fundamental rights: their data, their privacy. facebook has failed us miserably, has failed the whole world miserably, and we need to bring in mark zuckerberg here at the european parliament to answer very serious questions as soon as possible. we are worried what happened with brexit. was it facebook’s fault? these are very important questions to be urgently answered by facebook. cambridge analytica, and perhaps others, are cooperating and using our data to work against our interests. this is very important, so we should be very stringent. we should keep analysing and doing everything we can to stop fake news and to stop leakage of our data for fake news to be empowered to change election results and to destroy our democracy. let’s be vigilant, let’s be brave, and let’s make this happen.
in writing. we need to not only fully investigate and consider the scale of the cambridge analytica and facebook scandals and the potential implications for our political system and democratic processes, but also take concrete targeted responses to prevent similar abuses from happening in the future. we see that the current legal protection of data has not ensured a proper balance between the obligations and responsibilities of consumers of digital products and those of companies providing such services. consent, which is often of a general nature and which is not always obtained by the user accessing its content, should not be used as a pretext for irresponsible use of the consumer's private data in the transfer of that data to third parties. i think we need to pay even more attention to the consent aspect of the data subject. i believe that the european union's general data protection regulation, which will come into force in may, will provide a strong foundation for the protection of all our data, ensuring security and privacy, and at the same time strengthening democratic processes. however, it should not be forgotten that in the context of rapid technological development and globalisation, it is necessary to ensure that data security and privacy issues are at the top of the international agenda. it will be important in the future to ensure that the regulation is properly implemented, monitored and strengthened where necessary.
in writing. we have an important announcement today. in many member states of the european union, there are no registration systems to collect data on european protection orders. there is also no central system for recording important data in europe. insufficient data hamper the assessment of the implementation of the european protection order and make it difficult to overcome legislative shortcomings. this is a very important issue as the european protection order can cover victims of various types of crime, including terrorism, trafficking in human beings, sexual violence and organised crime. as regards applications for a european protection order, particular attention should be paid to victims of crime in difficult situations. the european protection order can be an effective tool for the protection of victims in a modern world characterised by high mobility and the absence of internal borders. member states of the european union should be encouraged to disseminate information to persons enjoying protection on additional support measures in the host state, such as family or accommodation allowances, as these measures do not fall within the scope of the european protection order. the state in which the beneficiary of special protection is present therefore has a major responsibility in this respect. we should also remember that special attention should be paid to children who become victims of crime.
the author. belarus is receiving the european parliament's constant attention, but the situation in the country is not changing. the same fundamental problems have been and remain unsolved. the recent municipal elections, so-called, have been rigged yet again. the osce/odihr recommendations are totally ignored, executions continue (6 in the past and this year), and independent media are persecuted and banned. meanwhile, the european union continues to err on the side of belarus. two years ago, when the sanctions were lifted, it sent the wrong signal to minsk. in negotiating partnership priorities, it is important not to make the same mistake, or at least not to repeat it. relations with belarus cannot be based solely on the willingness of some interested parties to provide microfinance assistance or to develop trade. it is necessary to follow a strict policy of conditionality, to formulate clearly our demands and, above all, to bear in mind the human rights and the dangers of the unsafe construction of the astravyansk nuclear power plant for the whole of europe and for europeans.
the author. the resolution mentions the astravyansk nuclear power plant, which is reportedly being built just 20 km from the european union's external border and is mainly planned for electricity exports to eu countries, as a threat to all european citizens, as it is being built in violation of international conventions and safety requirements. belarus must immediately stop construction and reduce its economic losses, because europe will not buy its unsafe electricity. my question to the commission: we know that the stress test process does not evaluate the safety of the playground. is the commission assured that the site chosen for the nuclear power plant is safe?
in writing. i have repeatedly stressed that the essential duty and function of the state is to ensure the rights of its citizens and residents in an appropriate and effective manner and to create an environment conducive to the prosperity and development of society. i firmly believe that the philippine authorities must take urgent measures to prevent the spread and use of drugs, mass murder and terrorist offences, and to develop active international cooperation in crime prevention. in my view, a policy of intimidation and repression based on violence is not an appropriate and proportionate means of achieving the goals of peace and prosperity in the philippines. it is necessary to prevent the use of the death penalty, to ensure that justice can be achieved by peaceful, adequate means, guaranteeing the right of the person to a defence and to a fair and impartial trial. special attention should be paid to public health, access to appropriate treatment and socialisation of victims and their families. also take action to improve the education and science system, raise the social and economic level of society.
madam president, i voted in favour of this very important legislative proposal. this legal instrument will help us to prevent the cases where the union’s financial system has been abused for money laundering, fraud, terrorist financing or other illicit activities by third parties. we need to put an end to dirty money – whether from isis or russian oligarchs – residing in eu banks. with this crucial proposal, financial intelligence units will be able to have direct access to the information they need on real owners of companies and trusts, and not the names on ‘letterboxes’. it will provide us with a tool to disclose complicated schemes of illicit activity and will bring more transparency to the system.
madam president, in recent years the scope of organic farming and demand for organic products have grown dramatically. eu citizens see it as a source of a healthy lifestyle and sustainability. it is estimated that the total value of the eco-market in the european union amounts to up to eur 31 billion. taking this into account, i support this proposal aiming at the harmonisation of production rules and reducing the risk of contamination from pesticides in organic farms. this means that farmers will still have the choice of cultivating both conventional and eco-production, but will have to comply with certain standards respectively. we need to ensure the credibility of the organic logo and help consumers make informed choices, as well as to provide incentives for eco-farming in our states.
madam president, recent breaches of the rule of law in fellow eu member states have shown once again that respect for european values needs to be significantly stepped up and can no longer be taken for granted. this tendency will remain in future as well. therefore i fully support the establishment of the european values instrument within the next mff. we are seeing the positive results of similar instruments in the eu neighbourhoods, and i believe that the time has come to apply some similar instruments within the eu member states as well. funding civil society organisations in the member states will help us strengthen civil society, promote democracy, government accountability and respect for human rights. there is nothing more important than defending these values, because these are the values on which the european union is based.
in writing. i would like to stress that we must give the new budget as much attention as possible to social issues, because only in this way can we contribute to solving the problem of youth unemployment, to combating child poverty and income inequality as effectively as possible. the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to establish, as early as 2014, a european child guarantee, ensuring that every child has access to free health and childcare services, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. the european child guarantee would be a means of ensuring that all children have equal opportunities from an early age and that no child is often deprived of such vital things as safe housing, adequate nutrition, guaranteed healthcare and education. europe and the member states must realise that investing in children is the most important investment in the future of us all. we currently have different instruments which can be used, among other things, to reduce child poverty in the member states, but they are not coordinated and in most cases the money from the funds is still allocated to other areas, and there is simply no money left for investing in children. so there is no doubt that the new budget must provide funding to fight child poverty. second, in order to effectively support young people who are looking for work and want to gain a foothold in the labour market, the european youth guarantee budget (funding) needs to be increased from 2020. only by implementing the youth guarantee in all member states will we be able to ensure equal opportunities for all young people.
in writing. – media freedom is a fundamental right in the european union. media is the most important source of information and an important factor enhancing european democracy by encouraging public opinion. sadly, the recent events of assassination of two investigative journalists in malta and slovakia clearly sends a message that media pluralism in the eu is in danger. so as our democracy, because without independent media we cannot expect to foster our democratic values. that is why member states have to create and maintain a safe and secure environment for journalists. strong legislative basis to protect journalist against the political and commercial influence is necessary. we have to send a clear message that media freedom is protected in the eu.
in writing. against the backdrop of the data scandal of recent weeks, the debate in the european parliament on media pluralism and media freedom in the european union is of particular relevance, both in terms of identifying threats to media freedom and in terms of the possible response to the situation. among the threats mentioned in the resolution, i would single out the most prominent and perhaps most relevant as the danger of fake news. such news undermines both the credibility of the media and the democratic principles of the state. ensuring the objectivity and impartiality of the media is one of the key objectives. it can be achieved by both the awareness and critical thinking of media workers themselves and the public at large, by checking the sources of information, etc. while i agree with the authors that pluralism is an integral part of democracy and freedom and that the right to information is one of the fundamental rights and freedoms, i believe that it is essential to strengthen the independent media. in cooperation with media content creators, we need to jointly develop the scales that will allow all digital actors to ensure the reliability of content and the impartiality of information. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has an important role not only in ensuring the monitoring of media freedom in the eu member states, but also in formulating the highest standards to ensure both media freedom and the fundamental principles of the protection of human privacy and human dignity.
the future of the european union is unthinkable without a strong and competitive agriculture. unfortunately, the disparity in direct payments between the different countries of the european union not only distorts the single market but also creates a class of secondary farmers. i will say frankly that thousands and thousands of economically active people in lithuania are condemned to be uncompetitive, feel inferior, second-class citizens of the european union. will belgium support the demand of lithuania and other countries of eastern and central europe to end discrimination against farmers and finally to harmonise direct payments?
madam president, calling on a global ban on animal testing for the cosmetics industry by 2023 is a very important step in the ongoing battle which aims to put an end to cruel practices against animals. it is regrettable that around 80% of the world’s countries still allow, and use, testing on animals and sell products which have been tested on them. i firmly support the european union’s commitment to lead by example through the landmark eu ban on animal testing which was implemented in 2013, and its call for similar legislation worldwide. on this occasion i salute my colleagues, who have been campaigning for this issue for many, many decades. this is an excellent example of a successful policy by european politicians. the eu ban has proved to be extremely successful. we have developed alternative testing methods for cosmetics and still remain the leader in cosmetics exports. therefore, i am convinced that other countries can benefit from that too. let’s end cruelty against animals together.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr dorfmann, on a really good report, but i regret that we have not been able to agree on the alignment of benefits from 2021. in 2003, when lithuania joined the european union, the council decided to harmonise the payments to lithuanian farmers by 2013, but this has not yet been done and i would like to inform you that the payments are only 60% of the european union average. i would like to ask when the commission will implement the council's decision to harmonise payments for all farmers so that both farmers and member states are competitive and do not feel second-class?
mr president, the new budget of the european union must not become a banner to be used against a self-sufficient, independent member of the community. that is exactly how i see the proposal to link european union support to respect for the so-called rule of law principles, which have been devised by the euro bureaucrats. that's the first one. secondly, there can be no reduction in support for agriculture and regional policy. i think the budget should provide for equal payments for all farmers. third, the european union is obliged to finance the shutdown of the ignalina nuclear power plant to 100%, as was the agreement before the nuclear power plant was shut down. and fourth, no new taxes in the formulation of the budget of the european union. the people of the community countries must not be further impoverished by the increased funding of wider resettlement programmes and military industrial tycoons at their expense.
in writing. we need to focus on social issues as much as possible, because only then can we contribute to solving the problem of youth unemployment. the fight against child poverty and income inequality is to be tackled as effectively as possible. the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to establish, as early as 2014, a european child guarantee, ensuring that every child has access to free health and childcare services, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. the european child guarantee would be a means of ensuring that all children have equal opportunities from an early age and that no child is deprived of often vital things such as safe housing, adequate nutrition, guaranteed healthcare and education. to reduce child poverty, we need to focus the eu budget on this and decide that this money is for children and not for other priorities. europe and its member states must realise that investing in children is the most important investment in the future of us all. we currently have different instruments which can be used, among other things, to reduce child poverty in the member states, but they are not coordinated and in most cases the money from the funds is still allocated to other areas and there is simply no money left for investing in children. the new budget should therefore provide funding to combat child poverty. second, in order to effectively support young people who are looking for work and want to gain a foothold in the labour market, the budget for the european youth guarantee needs to be significantly increased after 2020.
madam president, just this morning, militants fired rounds of heavy mortar from gaza into southern israel, alarming the israeli air and land defences and, in the end, strongly jeopardising any chances of improving the situation in the region. the opening of the us embassy in jerusalem ignited the fire in the region and resulted only in clashes. thousands were killed and thousands wounded. after these weeks of protests at the israeli border what, if anything, has been accomplished? hamas has gained more publicity in the international press and israel was condemned for disproportionate use of force against mostly unarmed protesters. if president trump had the intention to mobilise and inflame islamic fundamentalists and radicals, then he has achieved his goal. being a true friend of israel, we, the european union, should refrain from such political actions as moving embassies. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the united states is without any doubt our most important strategic partner. together, we foster our strategic interest in mutual prosperity and security, but the international system is undergoing a transition period and everyone faces challenges. even with the frozen ttip negotiations, we have to use the momentum to harness globalisation together and to continue working together to fight excessive capacities in key sectors and tackle trade issues of mutual interest. instead of acting against each other, we should search for solutions together. therefore i consider imposing import tariffs on eu steel and aluminium as an inappropriate redress to cover the actual problems of over-capacity. steel and aluminium imports from the eu should be permanently exempted from tariffs. us threats of punitive tariffs are jeopardising the transatlantic relations and the global trade and investment system under wto rules. i strongly support the commission in its engagement with the united states in order to avoid a trade war and to improve our trade relations. we all have to obey the rules and keep to the standards, otherwise we only produce chaos, and nobody can foresee which consequences this will have for the world.
the revision of the anti-dumping and subsidy regulations under discussion today, madam president, can be the beginning of a qualitative change in the european union's external policies. finally, we have legislation requiring the inclusion of social and environmental standards in the calculation of anti-dumping duties. it is no secret that some third countries may offer cheaper products simply because they pay fair wages and pollute our common home the earth with their waste products. it is not just the environment or workers in third countries who do not receive a fair wage that suffer, but we europeans too, both because of the deterioration of the environment, including climate change, and because of the increasingly declining european industry and the failure of agriculture to recover from the permanent crisis. i am convinced that if these rules are adopted and properly implemented, we will take a major step towards a better, cleaner and fairer global economy.
mr president, the eu is a front runner in the world for free and fair trade, and trade liberalisation. trade within the global value chains opens markets, creates growth and jobs and strengthens our relations with third countries, illustrated by various of our economic partnership agreements (epas) and free trade agreements (ftas) worldwide. however, we want to have a values— and principles—based trade policy. that is why we need more than tdas, in order to prevent unfair trading practices in our markets and an increase in transparency within the processes of global value chain instruments. for example, bilateral investment agreements (bias) are very effective instruments to protect our investors against unfair practices. that is why i am calling on the commission to complete the preparatory work and to start negotiations with taiwan on an eu—taiwan bia, including an impact assessment. taiwan could serve as an ideal springboard to the chinese market as we, of course, want a level playing field with china, which still imposes unjustified non—tariff measures and technical barriers. furthermore, one should not overlook our economic relationships and the positive advances that have been made with ftas conducted by the eu so far, and should speed up progress in the ongoing negotiations, especially our economic cooperation under the european neighbourhood policy. our dcftas under implementation help to create a stable, democratic and prosperous eu neighbourhood. finally, we should actively reach out to our partners, pursuing an ambitious trade agenda in a global context, especially keeping up the framework of the wto for free and fair trade on a global basis and in compliance with all wto obligations. finally, i would like to thank our rapporteur, ms saïfi, for her work.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s proposal for the new multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027, as well as the flexibility introduced by the own-resources proposal for the financing of the eu budget. the proposal well reflects the key european union priorities and goals in the context of increased external challenges and the budget hole which will be left by brexit. i support the increases foreseen for the security, defence and such flagship programmes as, for example, erasmus. however, i strongly believe that we should continue the current support level for such traditional policies as the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy. we all benefit from these policy areas, and any decrease can only be gradual and with compensation mechanisms in place. thus i hope during the negotiation process we can ensure adequate financing, quality and effectiveness of these policies.
mr president, to begin with, i want to emphasise that the schengen agreement is a fundamental part of the european union’s project, and the benefits it brings to the citizens’ daily lives and businesses are undeniable. however, during recent years, due to the ongoing migration crisis and influx of unregulated migrants caused by the failure to protect common external borders, the schengen area experienced serious challenges, including some member states even changing their legislation. i believe that this is very alarming, and we need to guarantee the free movement of people and services, as this comprises a crucial part of european union. i fully support the rapporteur’s call on the member states to swiftly implement the commission’s roadmap on bringing back the schengen.
mr president, in the past few years the trade environment in the world has changed dramatically. we see strong protectionist tendencies enforced by the united states, insecurity caused by brexit and growing trade with asian countries. this means that consistent monitoring and assessment of the policy should become an integral part of the eu trade strategy so that the best trading opportunities can be created. i support the report’s view that the eu, as the biggest trading power, should continue to pursue common trade policy which reflects the interests of the eu citizens and companies and at the same time guarantees a fair playing field for the partner countries. finally, the trade agreement should always adhere to the european values, ensuring responsible management and value chain, and their implementation and negotiations should become much more transparent.
for the efdd group i have always been in favour of resolutions that provide opportunities to defend the interests and rights of all states, including my fellow lithuanian citizens. the deliberate and illegal alteration of the real odometer reading of a vehicle is a serious problem throughout the european union. the row data has a great impact on the value of the vehicle, and it is not difficult to falsify it, as was said here, so i support the proposal to make odometer falsification a crime committed by both the person who orders it and the person who alters it. effective, proportionate, dissuasive and non-discriminatory penalties should be provided for in accordance with a similar standard throughout the european union. the adaptation of the electronic vehicle information system to the needs of consumers in the european union would enable the buyer to know the true history of the car, to assess the accidents he has experienced, the degree of damage to the car before the repair.
in writing. – the eu youth strategy was a long—needed document which could clearly define eu priorities and goals for young people in the european union. the mff presented by the european commission at the beginning of may emphasised programmes related to youth engagement as one of the key priorities, such as more funding for the erasmus programme, which i strongly support. it is the best way to share best educational practice between member states, and introduce young people to potential new skills. also, it helps to fight youth unemployment as well as strengthen a common eu culture. the focus on education should be the key priority of eu youth strategy, with a special emphasis on the promotion of digital skills. i have already talked about this many times. we need to engage young people to learn about the potential of digital skills through formal as well as non-formal educational programmes such as coder dojo. in this way, we will help young people to choose wisely their future career paths that will meet the needs of the eu job market.
in writing. the current eu youth strategy provides for a very large number of proposed initiatives covering a wide range of areas of activity, which, given the rather complex mechanism of political prioritization, do not ensure a clear definition of objectives, while general objectives remain abstract. it is worth noting that the european union's youth policy lacks clearly defined benchmarking. therefore, the exchange of good practice is still ongoing by informing colleagues of examples of actions whose scale is limited by the specific circumstances in individual countries. the approach of identifying individual areas of action should therefore be strongly complemented by a comprehensive, integrated approach, as the issues involved in shaping youth policy (education, employment, innovation, voluntary activities) are closely interlinked, as is constantly demonstrated by the specific policy documents and the activities of the expert groups dealing with youth strategy issues. in order to include all young people in the labour market and to provide them with quality jobs, we should strengthen our efforts to provide young people with equal opportunities for long-term integration into the labour market and long-term employment. they should be given the opportunity to manage their career development in the light of their qualifications and professional interests. young europeans should be given better prospects for their future careers and retirement.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the fact that we are again gathered here in this house to discuss the human rights situation in saudi arabia is appalling. we see a well-funded media campaign aimed at demonstrating as if reforms in the country were being implemented one after another. however, the reality is different. in fact, we see a crackdown on women’s rights and human rights activists taking place. since 15 may only, already 12 women’s rights activists, including those promoting women’s right to drive, have been arrested, defamed and labelled as traitors. the aim is to silence all of those who openly speak out. this cannot go on. here, today, we call on the saudi authorities to put an end to the treatment of saudi women as second-class citizens and immediately and unconditionally release all of them. i also call for the immediate freeing of raif badawi, sakharov prize laureate, who has been imprisoned for solely exercising his right to freedom and expression.
in writing. i think the punishment should be adequate, proportionate to the crime. the sudanese authorities should take immediate action to ensure that adequate human rights standards are respected in the country, to guarantee the right to a fair trial, to review the penalties for criminal offences and to ensure that they are adequate and proportionate to the crime committed. i am opposed to the use of the death penalty in all cases and in all circumstances. any inhuman violence, inhuman, cruel treatment, torture is not justified. forced marriage is not justified in the context of marriage, and the person must be able to make his or her own decisions in this regard. i would like to draw particular attention to international commitments. it is therefore essential that sudan ratifies the convention against torture and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and ensures full compliance with its domestic laws and international obligations.
in writing. first of all, i would like to emphasise that the demographic and social challenges facing europe, labour market requirements, new technologies, personal priorities and learning needs are driving the trends in educational change. it is important that education systems take these factors into account in order to offer not only quality knowledge but also relevant competences, including the skills for successful lifelong learning. technological developments and globalisation are creating new challenges. they also include education systems. the task of education systems in the information society is not only to transmit knowledge and the skills to apply it, but also to train people to develop knowledge, which is a source of competitiveness and the well-being of citizens and a key economic resource. i support the commission's idea of creating a european education area. however, it should be noted that this area must be consistent with the results achieved so far in the european higher education area and the european research and innovation area. in addition, the european education area must receive strong political support from the member states, whose joint efforts will provide a new impetus for the development of education, while ensuring respect for the principle of subsidiarity, educational freedom and institutional autonomy. calls, therefore, on the member states and regional authorities to invest more in education, through the european union's structural and investment funds, and to provide support to teachers and school heads in the field of modern technologies and the development of learner-centred teaching methods, ensuring high quality education, measured by the accumulated knowledge and skills, creativity and the ability to learn throughout life.
a dutchman on a flight over the mediterranean is lost in the waters off the coast of libya. it cannot go to european union ports for long because no country in the community wants to deal with problems that are not its own. the ax of the trade war between the united states and the european union is flying daily in the air like a native american tamahawk. the so-called rule of law policy is increasingly being voiced by the parties who are not satisfied with it. the european union's new budget after the twenties is in dispute. all this will be discussed, debated at the council meeting, but only discussed again, photographed again, and again until the next meeting. lithuania's citizens and, i think, the citizens of other european countries do not need photographs, they need good, decisive decisions, not discussion for the sake of discussion.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this year, while celebrating 70 years of the universal declaration of human rights, we all must admit that justice and dignity across the globe are severely threatened. therefore, i see this commission report as a good stock-taking exercise, which is giving us an opportunity to identify the existing loopholes in our human rights policy and adjust it accordingly so that the situation can actually be improved. 2017 was marked by ongoing conflicts and humanitarian catastrophes, terrorism and radicalisation, as well as a tighter grip of authoritarian regimes on human rights defenders, civil society and populations in many parts of the world and even in european union’s vicinity. in addition, in the eu itself, we have seen an unprecedented flow of fake news and propaganda, which have been used by governments and populists to spread anti—human—rights narratives, manipulate electoral processes and challenge liberal values. we urgently need to intensify our efforts to keep human rights at the centre of europe’s global strategy and the eu’s external action. to foster civil society and stand up for human rights defenders around the world, it is crucial to build human rights alliances regionally and internationally with our united nations partners. to resist the regimes and governments violating human rights, all tools at the european union’s disposal must be applied with consistent resolve and determination. real progress can only be achieved if human rights are never used as a bargaining chip in favour of eu or national economic and trade interests. freedom and human rights are not for sale!
mr president, 10 years ago, when russia launched its invasion of georgia, many in the free world were tempted to see it as an isolated incident. far too many were tempted to continue business as usual with the kremlin. the much larger invasion of ukraine just a few years later showed the colossal price of such wishful thinking. had we woken up in 2008, a lot of trouble could have been avoided. today, as we express solidarity with georgia, i call on this house to support the georgian parliament’s decision to sanction russian officials directly responsible for grave human rights abuses in the occupied territories, including the recent murders of georgian citizens – the otkhozoria and tatunashvili list. finally, georgia too must stick to its political obligations. i therefore appeal to tbilisi to respect fully the decision of last november of the european court of human rights on the former prime minister, vano merabishvili.
blue-card question. – mr mamikins, would you agree with me that, for 50 years, the western countries, which stood so strongly for the baltic countries’ independence and never recognised our occupation – did they make a mistake then, not recognising us and standing firm and demanding from the former ussr release and giving us independence? would you agree that those countries were right and now we are wrong, speaking about the georgian occupied territories?
in lithuania we have a saying: "nothing is more permanent than temporary". it is a perfect illustration of the situation in the georgian non-governmental areas of abkhazia and south ossetia. ten years ago, the european union countries managed to stop russian aggression by diplomatic means. unfortunately, the same diplomacy that helped stop the aggression has also frozen the situation where a good third of the country remains in russian puppet states. i don't want to be a bad prophet, but it seems very likely that something similar is forming in the russian-controlled de facto territories of eastern ukraine. i am convinced that if we want a serious and lasting solution to ensure peace in eastern europe, we must make the elimination of the puppet regimes in the territories of georgia, moldova and ukraine a precondition for future relations with russia. this will not only demonstrate our commitment to our values, but it will also help russia itself to rid itself of the remnants of soviet imperialism.
mr president, almost 10 years have passed since russian military forces invaded georgia. today, russian troops still occupy abkhazia and south ossetia and threaten georgia, including key transit links, railways, and pipelines connecting the region and europe. although there is a ceasefire agreement in place, russia still refuses to implement it. instead, since 2011, russia has implemented a policy of illegal fence and barrier constructions to move the borders forward, to separate communities and divide the georgian population. people also disappear in the occupied territory, and they are held in detention. the destiny of many is unknown until their dead bodies are returned to their families. colleagues, we should never forget that georgia is the victim of the russian aggression, not the other way around. georgia, which has more than 20% of its internationally—recognised territory occupied, was, is, and will remain a reliable partner of the eu and nato.
madam president, in the past years, the eu and nato have achieved a remarkable degree of cooperation. with many shared members, common interests and challenges, we were working in close cooperation and have stepped up in such areas as hybrid and cyber threats, military operations and exercises, and the fight against terrorism. especially we, the eu, have lately shown extensive efforts on defence, with concrete steps: for example, additional investments and better capabilities to share the burden of peace, security and defence equally. the launch of pesco shows further the potential of how we can strengthen the european contribution within nato. eu-nato cooperation should be further enhanced against hybrid and conventional threats in the east and south of the eu, with nato remaining the keystone of collective defence in europe. i welcome these steps brought forward and included in this report. they are timely and aimed in the right direction.
madam president, nato is, and will remain for years to come, the most vital security partnership framework. in this phase of multifaceted security challenges coming both from east and south, the eu and nato have been deepening their cooperation during recent years. i’m very glad to see that many european union countries, including my home country – lithuania – have met and even exceeded their obligation to allocate 2% of gdp for national defence this year. i believe we have to ensure even better coordination of our capabilities and resources, as well as coordination at the strategic level. however, despite these achievements of deeper integration, we still lack today tools at our disposal to guarantee the most efficient, collective defence of european citizens and nato allies. eu budget spending on the union’s and its partners’ security must be regarded positively and will lead to an increase in public confidence.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i certainly welcome today’s deliberations and the good speed with which we are moving towards the adoption of a new package of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. let me say from the outset: the proposal on the table, as adopted by the leading committee (committee on international trade, inta), is a very balanced step forward. just to look back a little bit: in my view, the conditions set for the previous mfa package – 21 policy measures in total – were far too many and too complicated. in all fairness, it was also the eu’s mistake that the last mfa instalment to ukraine was refused even though 17 conditions had been fulfilled. this time we are given proof: ukraine is able to deliver once it receives clear-cut signals and expectations from our side. establishment of the high anti-corruption court is with no doubt a very meaningful step in the creation of a future and european ukraine. i would like to stress very clearly that, even though we are right to expect many more things to be accomplished by ukraine on its european path, we cannot deny the truth. and the truth is that it is precisely ukraine which is setting an example for the whole world on how a country which is in a state of war is able to progress with reforms and great transformation. yes, implementation is that important, but there is always a stage of adoption beforehand. let me mention just a few more acts of legislation recently approved by the verkhovna rada: the law on pension reform, the law on healthcare and the law on education. these are the facts. i wish to conclude by saying that clear-cut responsibilities also remain with us, the eu: the eu’s policies and conditions must be tailored in such a way that eventually help to protect ukraine’s independence and do not jeopardise the socio-economic life of its people.
despite the ongoing russian aggression against ukraine, a difficult stage was passed last week. the ukrainian parliament adopted a law on the establishment of an anti-corruption court. this is a very important and long-awaited decision. the ukrainian state is fulfilling its obligations and has to operate in very difficult conditions, with soldiers and civilians being killed almost daily, and with parts of the state territory, including crimea, occupied. we can be happy that we have association and free trade agreements with ukraine and a visa-free regime. on the other hand, there are a number of necessary reforms that ukraine needs to implement. the situation is complex, and our assessments must be extremely objective. i therefore support the commission's proposal to provide a new macro-financial assistance of eur 1 billion to ukraine. this financial assistance will help ukraine to move forward, to implement the necessary reforms, to stabilise the economy and to implement structural reforms.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, on behalf of our rapporteur, jarosław wałęsa, who is absent today for family reasons, i would like to thank all colleagues who participated in the debate tonight and also to thank commissioner dombrovskis for his statement on behalf of the commission and for his work. we will be voting on this file tomorrow, and i hope that parliament will express its strong support and will give its consent to further macro-financial assistance to ukraine.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this report and this debate. i agree that this is a very important subject and it is timely that we review the steps that we have taken and the work that is still required. we will continue our work to build our cyber—resilience and cyber—deterrence, as well as to reinforce international cooperation and defence cooperation. the eu institutions together will work with the member states, with partners and with international organisations, notably nato, as many of you have underlined. we will work to bring together the civilian and the military dimensions of this challenge and the public and the private dimensions of this challenge. we need to develop our capabilities, and we need to continue to drive and focus our research and development to reinforce our cyber—security. a number of you mentioned other detailed points that we can look at. overall, i want to say how much we share the thrust of this report. we need to be ready. we need to meet the cyber and cyber—enabled threats that we face because that is indeed what our citizens expect.
in writing. – i want to congratulate mr paet on the report. this report clearly shows that cyber security has to be the top priority in the eu because it covers many areas like trade, services, and most importantly security and defence matters of the member states. the report acknowledges the importance of coordination between member states, which has been already emphasised in the nis directive. cyber security is a cross—border matter and alone we cannot protect ourselves to the maximum level. that is also why the role of the european defence agency, european union agency for network and information security (enisa) is important. the eu agencies have to enhance member states to help them not only to fight cyber-attacks, but most importantly to increase cyber resilience.
for the verts/ale group i congratulate my colleague davor (davor škrlec) on having prepared a good report and a somewhat strange report by a colleague from the group of the european people's party, and on having started to comment on it with negative epithets. i would say, however, that it is wrong to consider the prospects for the development of a circular economy. the problem is that the circular economy is still something exotic or something that can be avoided. the bad thing is that you have to show that the circular economy, the reduction of waste, the recycling of raw materials can be beneficial. i think these theses should be axioms. the principles of saving, recycling, responsible use of resources and the future of the planet are not, and should have long been, part of not only public policy but also the education system and the human consciousness. we only have one planet. it's great that europe adopted a waste documentation package a few years ago. it is great that we are looking for ways of using waste and it is great that in the report by my colleague, mr davos, there is an increasing emphasis on making as many actors as possible part of the circular economy. not just individual citizens or businesses, but local government, regional government, communities. and that would make recycling motivating.
let us face the reality: thousands of women and girls in the european union are victims of violence, both economic and psychological, sexual and physical. one in three say so. and if we look deeper, perhaps thousands of women are even afraid to report their abuse. so the reality is even more dire here in the european union. and so we have to take all the measures we can immediately to change this situation, to stop women and girls being abused. i am addressing the bulgarian presidency, you as the presidency must set an example and ratify the istanbul convention without delay. i am also writing to you, mr timmermans, asking the commission to consider very seriously the possibility of referring the directive to violence, because otherwise we will not change the situation.
for the verts/ale group i also congratulate my colleague, mr b.a. zdrojewski, on a really good report and i would like to say that, although it has become an axiom that we live in a digital age where everything is available online, life is more complex than one sentence. accessibility of cultural heritage is a case in point. cultural heritage is often physically difficult to access, for example when it is located in remote regions. or when people in poverty are simply too busy with their own survival and don't have much of a chance to engage with culture. or when cultural heritage is created in languages that are rarely used. more often, cultural heritage remains unknown because of its poor promotion. the report by my colleague, mr zdrojewski, is therefore to be commended for its excellent discussion of the structural barriers to cultural accessibility and for its attempt to find solutions.
in writing. reducing social and economic inequalities should be one of the objectives of the eu and its member states. participation in cultural activities is one of the ways in which a sense of belonging to society is created. in discussing accessibility to culture, we should bear in mind that cultural activities can help to build self-confidence and improve quality of life, especially for those who experience a certain marginalisation due to unemployment, illness or other reasons. taking this opportunity, it is worth reflecting on the rapporteur's proposal to support an inclusive cultural sector in which everyone can have equal opportunities to participate and develop their creative skills, regardless of their socioeconomic, cultural or religious background or disability. as regards culture, we must take into account the fact that europe's cultural heritage is unique in the world in its diversity and in the richness of its christian culture. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase of furniture and the purchase of furniture, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, the purchase of furniture and equipment, and the maintenance of furniture and equipment. unfortunately, financial aspects are always one of the main barriers to access to culture and participation in cultural activities. therefore, continued support to the cultural sector is necessary. the promotion of cultural interest and understanding through the education system is important.
i'm watching this commission's attitude to corruption. we hear public mantras about how evil corruption is and how important transparency in public finances is. in practice, the monitoring of the implementation of the previous anti-corruption package, which was drawn up by the commission back in 2011, and the preparation of the reports on the situation in this area, has stopped. the european union's participation in the greco structure was even dropped. i would point out that even on the most modest estimates, the european union loses about 120 billion euros a year to corruption. that's almost two brexit accounts. not to mention other figures that estimate the cost of corruption to europeans at almost 900 billion euros a year. i will ask the commission a rhetorical question: 'did anyone think that the continuation of the anti-corruption measures that had been initiated would not have required such drastic cuts in the vital cohesion and cap programmes?'
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, oleg sentsov will turn 42 next month. an active participant of the maidan in ukraine, there was no way he could stay silent once the ‘little green men’ appeared in his native crimea. what price does putin make people like sentsov pay for defending his homeland’s freedom? 20 years imprisonment four thousand kilometres away from moscow to the far north, where the temperature falls to -50 degrees, where the snow still stands in june, in a prison called ‘polar bear’ – what a symbolic name for the place where bears run freely and people normally do not live. today, we all hope that oleg will be strong enough to withstand the hunger strike. we all hope – and we demand – that his two children can see their father immediately, at home and in good health. finally, i expect that those who will take part in world cup matches in moscow will not become a shameful part of putin’s team.
in writing. i stress the duty of every state to prevent violence and instability, and disorder within the country. migration and residence issues should be settled by legal, peaceful means, without violence, aggression and killing, or harming health. any situation in which people, especially children, are killed or injured en masse is reprehensible. i call on myanmar to take urgent action in the context of rohingya protection: to provide people with the necessary hygiene and health care, and to provide medical and psychological assistance in refugee camps, specifically adapted to vulnerable groups. it is necessary to ensure the right of children to adequate, regular education and training, to create conditions conducive to their development, to actively combat violence and to prevent the spread of crime.
mr president, mr chancellor, i would first of all like to congratulate the people of austria, who, like my country, lithuania, are marking the centenary of the establishment of an independent state. i am pleased that austria has chosen the socially important motto of a 'europe that protects' as its presidency. i hope that this slogan will not remain just three empty words, but will become the basis for the restoration of democracy. i also wish and call for: firstly, increased funding for cohesion and agricultural policy in the budget of the european union for the year 21-27; secondly, finally and permanently harmonising direct payments to farmers; and thirdly, paying particular attention to social security issues this is particularly important for countries such as lithuania, which has one of the highest levels of social exclusion in the european union. i hope that the vienna round will bring a flood of new ideas and reforms, and that the consensus that europe is capable of protecting its borders and guaranteeing the safety of its citizens will not remain a mere phrase.
in writing. i thank the prime minister for presenting the priorities of the programme, but i am missing some very important issues that directly affect people and their daily lives. 1) first, reconciliation of personal and professional life as you know, the commission presented last year a package of legal and non-legal measures to provide equal opportunities and better conditions for working families (both mothers and fathers). we have almost completed our position on this directive in parliament and are ready to sit down at the negotiating table with the member states (council). will austria, as the presidency, take all the necessary measures on this matter of universal importance to achieve the best possible result and to avoid this matter being delayed or, worse, blocked? 2) secondly, the directive on women's quotas on company boards. the european parliament adopted its position as early as 2013, but the directive has been blocked in the council until now. would austria be able to start discussions with the member states on this directive if it were to pool all its resources and political will? 3) finally, on the istanbul convention, i very much hope that austria will finally ratify this convention during the next six months of its presidency in order to combat violence against women and girls. i wish you the best of luck!
mr president, i very much welcome establishing the european defence industrial development programme, which will, for the first time, finance and facilitate cross-border cooperation between defence industrial undertakings of the member states. i believe that this will boost the competitiveness and innovation of the eu defence industry, and, most importantly, align development of defence technologies with the european union’s defence capability priorities, emphasising through this the eu’s strong commitment to security and stability. these two aspects are crucial to stepping up the european union’s defence capabilities in the current political context. finally, i am convinced that it is for the benefit of european citizens and enterprises if the european defence industry remains in europe as a source of new workplaces and business opportunities, to say nothing of greater stability in our continent.
madam president, i am simply repeating what i said here three years ago. quota policy was nothing, it will only encourage more migration to europe, because it sends a signal: 'you are welcome here, you will be taken care of'. but the message to african states and their governments should be quite different: stable peace in the region and adequate control of their borders. so it took about three years for european leaders to realize that this kind of asylum policy was leading to a creeping european suicide. the european union has been able to wake up from its slumber only after a number of countries took drastic but correct and unavoidable decisions. the political agreement reached will hardly help to restore democracy and bring harmony out of chaos if the european union's ultimatums to smaller member states continue to be applied and if european leaders ignore the will of the people. people are tired of waiting. they call for concrete solutions and reforms for the european union.
in writing. the eu is armenia's main trading partner and its most important partner in international relations. armenia is also a member of the eurasian economic union, which shows that the country has open relations with many countries, which opens up a lot of commercial and economic opportunities. the new agreement provides a better legal framework for the revival of political dialogue and the expansion of economic cooperation, as well as cooperation in areas such as energy, transport, infrastructure and the environment. this agreement should have a positive impact on armenia's contribution to the promotion of relations with the european union. such prospects are particularly important for the youth of armenia, inter alia, by improving education and providing more opportunities for employment. it is also important that the citizens of the eu and armenia benefit from closer cooperation. this new agreement is worth supporting as it is in line with the spirit and principles expressed in the european parliament's recommendation of 15 november 2017.
madam president, the issue we are discussing today is indeed very important - on the one hand, how we will live in 2019 and how we will agree on priorities. on the other hand, 2019 is the year of brexit, and it's a budget that is still quite large, and the challenge is what the budget will be after 2020. the question is whether we're going to spend all the time until, let's say, the 2020 problem comes up, until we agree on a new fiscal perspective, or whether we need to start thinking about budget revenues together today. not just the revenue that the member states generate, but the revenue that we would have as a stand-alone european revenue, especially taxing the digital, let's say, space.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. indeed, an incredibly complex work that is being accomplished today! it was about the modernisation and simplification of the financial regulation and it was about the sectoral basic acts for various programmes in the european budget. it was very ambitious to do everything together. but if you had just discussed, modernised, simplified cohesion or agricultural or connecting europe rules, other programme managers would have rightly said that they too are interested in modernisation and simplification. so i would like to pay tribute to all those who have worked so hard on this issue over the last two years. i would like to thank my directorate-general and my former director-general, mrs calviño, who has worked on this very carefully. with the new financial regulation, we have a new basis as of 2018. but just as importantly, the basic rules governing the various sectors and their spending programmes are the basis for the budgetary framework of the next decade. their work will feed into the discussions on the 2021-2027 budgetary framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's about the application. what data and documents must an applicant submit for programmes under the european budget? it is a question of processing applications, it is a question of implementing the programme, it is a question of settling accounts and controlling the accounts. simplification is a goal and a value in itself, but opening the door to fraud, dishonesty and corruption would be the wrong way to go. and that is why you have tried, and we all have tried, to maintain the balance between simplifying the processing of applications, the implementation of programmes, the accounting and controls on the one hand and preventing corruption, fraud and dishonesty in the european budget on the other. we have learned some lessons from the experience. the question is how to use different programmes flexibly: to what extent do we want to allow the project to involve several programmes? connecting europe and cohesion or the juncker plan and cohesion are cited as examples. we have introduced - as mrs gräßle has mentioned, the keyword is tax havens - intermediaries and letterbox companies, i think, in a very, very consistent form, into a system which i hope will prove itself in practice. we have made simplifications particularly for users of small-scale programmes with a budget of a few thousand or tens of thousands of euros. we have introduced a new category of volunteering, which is important for ngos. i could mention a host of other points. i believe that, despite all the complexity and even if the discussions a year ago were already destined to come to a standstill or fail, the fact that we have now managed to get through and that this omnibus has made it possible to modernise and simplify our regulatory systems and the budgetary system in a fundamental way is a worthwhile achievement which will also have a positive impact on our member states, regions, municipalities, researchers, farmers and our citizens and voters in the years ahead. thank you to everyone involved.
for the verts/ale group i speak as a former long-serving mayor of a municipality who has personally initiated dozens of european-funded projects. in the preparation of each financial perspective, there is much talk of simplifying budgetary rules on the one hand and of increasing accountability on the other, although it is clear that these objectives are only semantically contradictory. the implementation of these objectives is even further from ambition. i am referring in particular to the interpretation of the general budgetary rules in the member states, which often leads to much stricter implementation and audit rules and, as a result, not less but more bureaucracy. the first thing that should therefore be addressed by the rules implementing the new financial perspective is legal certainty and clarity. better to have a set of rules that are not perfect but clear than a set of lozenges that are vague and full of good intentions. i want to commend the work of the reporters. they have duly taken into account the greens' request not to allow cohesion policy funding to be used for other purposes, in particular to be transferred to the european structural investment funds. the appropriations of the latter funds may not be increased at the expense of cohesion policy. unfortunately, it is not the first time that the commission has proposed to revise this provision, using very strange arguments.
author. – madam president, in my capacity as a standing rapporteur and as a real friend of moldova, i must confess that i am standing here feeling totally disillusioned and very sad. moldova, once called a frontrunner associated partner of the european union, was the first to receive a visa-free regime and to initiate sizeable reforms in a number of fields. today, the label that sticks to moldova is that of a captured state, ruled by a non—transparent political elite, a sort of private company. the judiciary – captured: the court decision on the chișinău elections is a real ‘theatre of the absurd’, with the call to ‘get out the vote’ suddenly being outlawed. the electoral system – captured: election laws have been twisted and adapted to guarantee seats only to some parties and eliminate others. the banking sector – captured: eur 1 billion disappears and no genuine effort is made to recover the funds and bring those responsible to justice. media – captured: the concentration of the media in the hands of only few players, results in a lack of pluralism and in manipulation and disinformation. the free media are struggling for their very existence. all in all, this can only mean that a pro-european moldova is still just a vision, a long way from reality. i sincerely believe in the eu-moldovan partnership, as a means of bringing a better future for moldovans, who deserve our firm support and cooperation.
i respect you, chairman. i would like to congratulate the honourable rapporteur on her excellent report. multilingualism has long been identified as a barrier to the development of the european digital market, but so far only a small number of eu countries have taken active steps to tackle this problem. in recent decades, the role of digital technologies in society has become increasingly influential. it affects not only our habits and our language but also our culture and our way of life. technology is the only possible way to meet the needs of europe and its multilingual environment. i am glad that this issue is finally on the european political agenda. i call on the european commission to take the initiative and implement the actions proposed in the report and to develop as soon as possible a european mother tongue project a clear and long-term funding programme for research, technological development and innovation. this is the only way for europe to secure its long-term leadership position not only in language technology but also in artificial intelligence.
in writing. – mr orban, in april last year when you were in the european parliament, you stated that you wanted to correct the union and to reform it because that was the only way to regain people’s confidence. why don’t you start with yourself first? a year after that discussion in parliament, we see that the situation in hungary is getting worse. the report lists 12 serious issues which threaten the rule of law, including the functioning of the constitutional and electoral system, the suppression of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and academic freedom, and conflicts of interest, to name just a few of them. it seems that the only actual ‘eu value’ which you accept and follow is eu funding. you want to get the money but you don’t want to play by the rules. what kind of business deal is that? we, the eu meps, have to stand up together for eu values: we have to protect them because the protection of eu values means the protection of eu citizens, including, in this regard, hungarian citizens. mr orban, when will you have had enough of ruling hungary using communist-type practices?
mr president, we all know very well how important the transatlantic relationship, the eu-us relationship, has been, is and will be, not just for us but for the whole world. our partnership is a strength for both of us. the strength lies in the values underpinning this partnership, our shared values. we've been living in a different reality lately. on the other side of the atlantic, there are statements that the european union is the enemy, that the european union is worse than china. what should the european union do? should the european union maintain good relations at all costs? yes, we must strive to take advantage of every opportunity, but not at any cost. the european union has interests and it is our duty to defend them. the european union and the united states must play by the rules, i stress the agreed rules. if you don't like the rules, you don't like the rules, let's change the rules, but there are rules and they have to be followed.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mr bas belder, for his report. although the obor strategy is presented by china as a strategy of economic cooperation, it was born in the backdrop of china's national security and defence. obor an economic expansion strategy that aims at chinese domination of the world, a new world order, and the reduction of us economic power and influence in the world. moreover, the aim is to set the european union against the united states. the chinese are serious, as seen in the case of greece, which bought a seaport that was already in the hands of a chinese state-owned company. we have more examples: portuguese electricity generation and transmission also in chinese hands. format 16+1 target eastern and central european countries member states of the european union. china is becoming an internal force in the european union, let's stop it. china is both a respected and welcome partner, but reciprocity and compliance are essential to a successful partnership.
mr president, the european union’s copyrights rules need to be modernised and adapted to the digital age in the most efficient way, we know that, so that europe can further lead in the digital economy around the globe. we need to make sure that the rules protect the creators and remuneration of artists and encourage users to buy artistic content, but we should not establish obstacles such as filtering the free internet, freedom of speech and development of smaller platforms. therefore, i voted against the commission’s proposal as i do not believe that it has achieved sufficient balance on those issues. my colleagues and i supported the amendments to the text – we said no to filtering and sought to establish dispute settlement, to ensure freedom of panorama and to protect press publications in respect of digital uses, as well as users of protected content for entertainment such as internet memes – which we believe would have balanced it. it is unfortunate that a compromise has not been reached.
mr president, the eu-us transatlantic relationship remains the crucial pillar for global stability, and for upholding fundamental rights in the world. threats in the eu neighbourhood that we are currently faced with can be effectively deterred only through deep and coherent partnerships within a nato framework. i therefore believe we should continue showing our full political and financial commitment to this partnership. however, i also share the concerns expressed in the report that president trump’s administration has led to some set-backs in very important fields of cooperation, such as trade, climate change or the united nations. having said this, despite developing and deepening the partnership further wherever possible, the european union should also be prepared to build its strategic powers and, if necessary, lead by example when it comes to such issues as human rights or global warming.
mr president, the recent eu-china summit has witnessed the fact that both parties are stepping up their cooperation in many fields, including security, defence, anti-terrorism and climate change. certainly, china is seeking greater influence in europe due to its growing investments in strategic infrastructure. however, we must be rather cautious and think how to counter-balance this influence in order to preserve our democracy and not to be indebted to chinese banks. i wish to highlight that the european union also should continue to speak up for press freedom, human rights and other fundamental liberties in this country. i agree with this report’s conclusions and the relationship with china, if pursued with cautious diplomacy, can be a great opportunity not only for the european union and china, but for global stability too, although it is crucial that we remain very loyal to our values, and to democracy and human rights.
madam president, we all agree that people who have worked all their lives should be entitled to a pension. ideally, a pension of adequate size should be paid from a public fund and people should also be able to accumulate their pension in occupational funds or by supplementary insurance. but what is the reality? indeed, pensioners in lithuania, germany, italy and greece receive very different pensions. for example, in my country, lithuania, the average pensioner has to survive on ten euros a day. that's living in poverty. that is why we here in the institutions of the european union and in the member states must invest more in quality jobs, in decent wages, in quality employment, because it is primarily the amount of time a person works, the amount of periods worked and the amount of salary received that very often determines the pension he receives. and i would also like to point out that the gender pension gap in the european union is still huge, at 40 percent. this means that we have a lot of work to do in this area.
mr president, i am pleased that the european institutions have started to work in a targeted way to tackle plastic pollution. the plastics strategy under discussion today is an ambitious effort to make plastics recycling a profitable business, by accelerating the transition to a circular economy and fostering innovation. i would like to congratulate the commission on this initiative, but i would like to draw attention to a few points. first of all, we need to talk about a clean, circular economy. even if recycled, the continuous circulation of toxic plastics will pose no less of a risk to the environment and human health. in preparing the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on reducing the environmental impact of single-use plastic products, i proposed the use of the concept of a circular non-toxic economy. recycling clean and non-toxic products is what needs to be the basis.
mr president, it is really important for my fellow lithuanians to know that we are equals, not lower-class europeans who can be squeezed out of lower-quality products. i was the shadow rapporteur on this issue in the committee on agriculture and rural development, and i worked hard to produce quality proposals to address these concerns of producers and traders. these deceptions sometimes amount to mere deception, resulting in people's poorer health, worse well-being, and disappointed expectations. we need clear common european rules to achieve a sustainable and irreversible solution, and to stop our citizens being treated as second-class citizens.
in writing. the european parliament first became interested in the quality of the two-wheeled vehicle back in 2011, when a study by the consumer association of the slovak republic showed that the composition and prices of six branded food products in seven eu countries differed significantly. in the follow-up to this inquiry, the rapporteur first asked the commission whether the commission considered that this dual quality constituted a problem relating to the functioning of the single market and consumer protection. i agree with the parliament's position that equal access to high-quality goods on a non-discriminatory basis in the single market should be a real right for all european citizens. if this is not the case, the essential functioning of the single market and consumer confidence in the single market could be seriously damaged. furthermore, consumers should be clearly and transparently informed that the product they have purchased or of which they are aware in another member state is different in order to avoid confusion and misleading the consumer's overall perception of the product purchased. it is also important to raise consumer awareness of products, their characteristics and composition. it should be noted that the marketing of products with a purposefully different composition in different parts of the eu, which can easily be maintained by the consumer as identical, is an unfair practice and should therefore not be accepted. the rapporteur of the parliament therefore considers that adding another category of misleading commercial practices to annex i of the unfair commercial practices directive is the most effective way of addressing all the issues of apparent dual quality in the european union.
author. – mr president, madam high representative, first of all i want to welcome sam rainsy and his delegation into this hall and i appreciate their uncompromising fight for the democratic future of cambodia. those people really deserve all kinds of support, from us and from the free world in general. despite the recent releases of a few political prisoners, including kem sokha, the situation in cambodia is deteriorating further. elections in july were nothing but a farce. all the seats went to the ruling party. what do they say about this? they appreciate it, they like it, they call it ‘elections’. there cannot be another scenario from our side: we must firmly demand that the cambodian government give back the voice and the rights of its people. we must put an end to impunity. to achieve this, the european union has to finally move from statements to actions. cambodia cannot benefit any longer from gsp plus trade preferences. those responsible, mr president, must be identified and punished by banning them from travelling to europe and by freezing their assets.
in writing. i believe that the proposal for a regulation on the evaluation of health technologies put forward by the european commission is targeted and has a high added value for the european union. it is another step towards building the eu in an important area such as health. the proposal essentially aims to carry out a common clinical assessment of health technologies at european level. health is one of the most important values for eu citizens, as eurobarometer has repeatedly shown. as set out in the tfeu, the improvement of health must be a political priority for the eu in all its actions, but in particular those relating to specific health issues. the right to health is a fundamental right it is not only important for the integrity and development of the person, but is also a decisive factor for social cohesion as well as for productivity. the eu welfare system, in which health systems play a key role, can ensure high eu health standards. the price of cancer drugs has increased tenfold in the last decade, regardless of their therapeutic value. a very high percentage of medicines on the european market are not superior to existing medicines. moreover, the fact that medicines are considered a consumer good subject to market rules has helped the industry to become one of the most competitive economic sectors in the european union, despite the obvious competition with the united states or emerging market economies. however, policy measures regulating this area must be consistent with the ultimate objective of ensuring that citizens have access to medicines.
madam president, it is a pleasure to have the vice—president here again. just recently we had the #switch conference in vilnius. this time 15 000 children turned up. i know you visited it once with me a few years ago. it was a conference about blockchain technology. it is here and it is here to stay. let’s not stop it. eva kaili is doing a great job with this resolution, which i think is very important. i also think it is very important to educate politicians that blockchain technology or dlt does differ significantly from cryptocurrencies and bitcoin and ethereum, and then ethereum differs a lot from bitcoin too as it was a main means of funding a lot great projects for which europeans got money could have never come to them before. so there is a lot of great innovation where people have been contributing from all over the world. we will see how that pans out. over—regulating and being too nervous is not the way to go. the european central bank has been quite active, and a lot of reserve banks in europe have been quite active, warning people of the risk – and there are risks when you speculate, and the bitcoin price does fluctuate significantly – but bitcoin is here to stay. other parts of it, like decentralisation is here to stay too, and once these technologies are decentralised we will not have much say, unfortunately. this is something that we also have to live with, because once it is decentralised it runs on its own merit. this is the current world and the current status for us all. artificial intelligence we should not be afraid of either. we should be leading the world and we should be investing and educating ourselves to start with, our children and our great countries of europe to lead the world forward with very liberal legislation, very open arms to create well—paid jobs for everybody, which we all need. so i wish everyone good luck. stay positive. this is one of the main technologies that can lead us forward. (applause)
for the verts/ale group mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not a party to the treaty. rural mountain areas in the european union constitute a significant part of the territory of the european union, inhabited by at least 57% of the citizens of the european union. the importance of these sites for a balanced and sustainable territorial development of europe is therefore indisputable. the specific nature of these areas and their inhabitants means that they face major challenges in terms of social and economic development, climate change and demography, and therefore the european union's policy instruments must take account of a specific approach to these regions. these regions need additional support to overcome poor accessibility, declining employment opportunities, ageing populations, insufficient infrastructure and other pressing problems. we certainly need to devote more attention and resources to rural areas, increasing synergies through the coordination of the various european union policies, strategies and programmes. it should be noted that the rural development financing scheme proposed in the new multiannual financial perspective of the european commission, separated from the cohesion policy financing instruments, is a cause for concern. today, there is much talk about simplifying the rules for financing eu funds, reducing red tape, and making eu funding instruments more interconnected, but the new approach proposed by the european commission does not take into account the cohesion dimension of the rural development fund and thus prevents beneficiaries in these areas from having simplified access to different sources of funding. the more rural development, the more cohesion.
in writing. – last plenary session we had mr orban, and now we have mrs dăncilă to discuss the same issue – a possible breach of the rule of law in an eu member state. poland, hungary and now romania – we see a ‘tendency’' which highly threatens the core values and the existence itself of the eu. it is very worrying, especially before the upcoming ep elections. what we see now in romania is a clear sign of an illiberal democracy in the eu: the social democratic party of romania has embarked on a process of overhauling the judiciary and change legislation to decriminalise several graft offences. several party members, including leader liviu dragnea, are under investigation or on trial for corruption. justice minister tudorel toader pushed through the dismissal of chief anti—corruption prosecutor laura codruța kövesi earlier this year. we see a clear threat to transparent judiciary processes in romania which also leads to direct threats to the democratic rights of romanian people, which we have to protect. however, the prime minister herself calls this fake news. do you see the current processes in romania as a healthy democratic development of your country prime minister? if you think it’s acceptable, then that is deeply worrying to me.
for the efdd group estonia is often given various epithets, which often express the country's resilience. one of them is the oft-repeated baltic tiger. the wisdom, ingenuity and determination of the tiger are needed more than ever by the european union. the ability to navigate between the common interests of the european union and those of individual national states, the ability to negotiate with the world's largest states, the determination to adopt the position of a parity of national rather than international culture in the europe of the peoples, a position of states whose politicians and citizens are in favour of sovereignty, as an expression of direct democracy. it is interesting that many of these eastern european and visegrad countries have lived through the experience of soviet federalism and understand perfectly well what the globalist drive to federate europe can be. dialogue, not confrontation, is what this is about. a union of nations, not federation. economic growth, reducing social exclusion, not increasing the cost of war. peace, the search for agreement, not conflict or confrontation. these are the things that must become the cornerstones of the new european union. come on, prime minister, do you think it should be any different? then let us hold referendums in the community countries on the future direction of the european union. do people want to strengthen the autonomy and independence of states? do you want a new european federation without independent states? i am convinced that the result of the referendum would be very unpleasant for the architects of the european union's politics today, who see its future as a unified federation of european states. i also believe that we will have a new future for the european union much sooner than the last eu president or prime minister has spoken on the subject. that future will begin after britain leaves in march next year. and it's not so important whether the parties agree on the terms of the divorce or not. the summit has begun. we still have time to prevent this from becoming the downfall of the european union as a whole, by pursuing a constructive dialogue rather than primitive insults or personalities.
i would like to ask you very briefly about energy independence. i am from lithuania and together with my other colleagues from the baltic states and other countries, we have produced quite a number of different documents over the past nine years which would, as it were, define our european union's energy independence from third countries, including russia. but the reality, i think you'll agree, is different. because we didn't agree at all a few years ago - the three baltic countries - on a joint project, the construction of a nuclear power plant. we were very afraid of being contaminated, of being contaminated ourselves, and in those years, when we didn't agree, the astrava nuclear power plant was built. we also used up a lot of our political potential in the debate about nord stream 1, but it's built today. the nord stream 2 project will also be in the process of being implemented. so energy independence is not about how many documents we create, it's about what capacity we have. so i would like to have your vision, your idea of how we will live in the future with an even greater dependence on one supplier - russia - for both electricity and gas.
mr president, there are well—grounded concerns about the functioning of the eu medicines system, as new medicines are very expensive and a large proportion of them do not bring better results than the ones previously circulating in the market. the eu-wide health technology assessments will be an evidence-based and uniform criteria-based process of evaluation and comparison of health standards and technologies in the member states. this assessment should speed up access to medicines for patients, provide guarantees on medicines’ quality and reduce the bureaucratic burden, as only one assessment would be needed instead of one assessment per member state. finally, i also supported proposals for the text to include the necessary additional flexibility so that member states can meet certain national requirements, thus respecting member states’ subsidiarity.
mr president, parliament today has pushed further on the commission’s proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new cars in the eu market by at least 40% by 2030. i am really happy with the political will and ambition shown by parliament in this regard. i fully support the aim of the proposal to help member states to reach the eu climate commitments under the paris agreement for the transport sector by incentivising the best use in production of new technologies such as electric vehicles. the vote was motivated in part by a reading of the impact assessment which estimated that this proposal could possibly create up to 70 000 new jobs in the european union and that it will allow our citizens to save up to eur 17 billion a year on fuel. lastly, the decision to reduce environmental pollution will also significantly reduce the eu’s geopolitical dependence on transport fuel imports, and it carries a very clear geopolitical message.
poverty and social exclusion are among the most serious problems facing a large proportion of the countries of the european union. despite economic growth, individuals, families and even entire regions continue to suffer from poverty. social policy is often sacrificed to other issues, and the talk of living standards and welfare is often forgotten. although the european parliament recently adopted a resolution on minimum income policies as a means of combating poverty, the question of the commitment and responsibility of national governments towards the most vulnerable members of society is a matter of concern. for example, lithuania is now finishing up the painful problems of irresponsible social cuts made a decade ago. we say, "politicians who are irresponsible will be punished by the voters". but we must now look at ways of ensuring that social policy and social investment are properly placed on the european agenda, both in national states and in parliament.
we social democrats have repeatedly called on the commission and the member states to set minimum income standards in the european union, because this would certainly be a practical means of fighting poverty. first of all, with the poverty of women, the poverty of children, the poverty of the elderly, the poverty of pensioners, and this would certainly give those of us who live in the european union at least some of the opportunity to meet their basic needs. but is it not too often that we get the answer 'no, that is a matter for the member states, it does not concern us'? but it can't be. it is a matter for all of us, it is a matter for our common family in the european union, and it is a common responsibility of our politicians, our commissioners and the member states for our citizens in the european union, for our inhabitants in the european union. let's face it, how many people make minimum wage? how many people get small pensions? how hard it is for families with children. the european union's common minimum income directive and the european child guarantee are therefore absolutely necessary.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to see the vice—president on the floor – a voice of reason and forward-looking. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the great work that you are doing. in fact, you have driven it through like a ferrari, to quote you. i have heard that language being used before. so we are all european here today, and we’ve got the fifth freedom in the eu. i am hoping that this will really allow free movement of non-personal data, which is a cornerstone of the digital single market that the vice—president of the commission is pushing so well. this regulation gives a chance to european businesses to actually experience the opportunities and advantages of the digital economy in europe. a lithuanian start—up working with data analytics now has the same opportunities to scale up and reach bigger markets, like germany or france, as a german start—up, for example. we have got some fairness. it has been calculated – we’ve heard eur 8 billion and i’m hoping it’s more, but we’ll take eur 8 billion – and it brings an enormous boost to european businesses, especially the ones that are working in an artificial intelligence space. ai is a field where this regulation can really push europe forward. in the artificial intelligence race with the us, and especially with china, we should really take note and action. we all agree that ai is the future and can create a lot of good, well—paid jobs in europe. however, we need to invest in research, education and development, and give funding to european companies working in the ai area. these are the key drivers, and it’s crucial for european smes and start—ups, which don’t have access to huge streams of data, like big tech companies do – google or facebook for example. the free flow of non-personal data regulation gives this opportunity. it unlocks a huge amount of non—personal data, especially from mixed data sets, which have been like a grey zone. it brings legal certainty, which is a business need. ai technology is already here, and it won’t go away. the regulation of the free flow of non-personal data is a great example of such an approach.
in writing. the procurement system must be transparent and fair. it is an important tool to help address public policy issues such as reducing social exclusion, creating jobs, improving environmental sustainability the effective performance of public procurement must be ensured throughout the eu. it is essential that the means to promote efficiency in public procurement are used properly. the efficiency of public procurement administration must be improved. the procurement procedure itself must be clear without creating an unnecessary administrative burden. particular attention should be paid to smes. they must be given the appropriate conditions to participate in competitions. i also believe that we need to promote faster digitisation, which in turn would help to increase transparency, help to prevent fraud and corruption in the public procurement process.
in writing. is procurement, where the only criterion is the lowest price, really economically stimulating, reducing social exclusion, environmentally sustainable and fostering innovation? is there sufficient transparency and simplicity in the procurement procedures in the member states of the european union, and of course in lithuania? are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) receiving sufficient public attention in terms of their participation in public procurement? public procurement is an important part of the market and in order to implement the principles of a social market, we should aim to make public procurement socially responsible. i agree that the european parliament should, at least in the form of a resolution, call on the member states to see public procurement as an opportunity to promote a sustainable, socially responsible economy, to open up avenues for innovation, and to enable smes to grow and strengthen in a competitive environment. the lowest price and the most economically advantageous offer do not always coincide. it is really important to take into account the whole life cycle of products, environmental requirements, social aspects. the digitisation of public procurement is also of great relevance, as the introduction of innovative technologies would help to overcome language barriers and promote cross-border public procurement.
the author. mr president, ordinary resolution on the situation of democratic rights in belarus. today we are talking about freedom of the press, which is the lack of freedom of the press and the continuous persecution of free people in belarus. now the internet is taken all online commentators will be registered and their data will be passed to the kgb. there is no limit to the imagination and the activities of this office. we know this from history. i want to be very clear. first, it is not enough for the charter 97 portal to repeatedly express our verbal support. the commission and the eeas must ensure that the blocking of the portal is lifted as soon as possible. the portal needs specific financial support and it must come from the european union. secondly, the political monster lukashenko is building a nuclear monster for himself astrava nuclear power plant. the fundamental right of the people of belarus and all of europe to security will be mentioned. the european union's action must be based on strict conditions and clear requirements, not on attempts to comply. the commission and the external action service must stop acting naively. it is enough to ignore the fact that minsk does not even try to imitate the changes. i call for an end to the negotiations on the partnership priorities and for serious action to be taken.
the author. mr president, today's belarus is indeed a vivid example of how the suppression of a free press and the violation of human rights pose a direct threat to the security of the country, the region and the entire continent. having survived one of the worst nuclear disasters in human history, belarus has recently embarked on a nuclear adventure with consequences far more devastating than the chernobyl disaster. by restricting civil society and independent media such as the chartija 97 portal, belarus has allowed the putin regime in russia to build a nuclear power plant on the border of the european union. even the soviets, after the chernobyl accident, froze the construction of such a reactor in belarus. the construction of the astravyansk nuclear power plant is already visible from the territory of lithuania. i get a lot of questions from citizens: what is the european union doing to ensure nuclear safety? i would like to ask the commission how the full implementation of the european union's stress tests at the astravyansk nuclear power plant will be guaranteed. is the millions of european union taxpayers travelling to belarus not simply support for the astravyuk nuclear plant, including the associated press regimes?
mr president, the inhuman treatment of uyghur and kazakh minorities in china has been taking place without adequate attention from the international community for too long. hundreds of thousands of people from these muslim minorities have been detained in camps under horrible conditions, including torture and restriction of their religious practice and culture, with a view to re—educating them out of their religious beliefs. it is still hard to believe that such camps can exist in the 21st century. uyghurs and kazakhs must have the right to freely choose their way of life and propagate their traditions, culture and beliefs while staying in china. therefore, i call on the european union to bring up this issue and demand the closure of those camps in all future political dialogues and negotiations with china as a matter of primary importance.
in writing. first of all, i would like to stress that a modern, focused eu budget cannot be achieved without a clear and comprehensive gender dimension, which is crucial to enable better and more evidence-based decision-making, which in turn helps to ensure the effective use of public funds and eu added value in all eu actions. i would also like to call for increased resources, for example under the european social fund, the european regional development fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the eu cohesion fund, to ensure women's economic and social rights, in particular through the implementation of measures in the field of women's employment and investments in high-quality affordable public care services, and the reduction of gender inequalities, also using existing instruments at union and member state level and by allocating a separate budget line to this end. it is also essential to allocate appropriations to support women's entrepreneurship and to ensure and promote women's access to loans and equity financing under european union programmes and funds such as cosme, 'horizon 2020' and the european social fund. it is also essential to ensure equal participation of girls and young women in the youth employment initiative measures and to focus on quality training and employment opportunities for them, including in the digital economy, ict and the science, technology, engineering and mathematics sectors.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms ries, and all the shadow rapporteurs for proceeding with this report very quickly and with a lot of ambition. urgency and ambition are indeed necessary because we are facing a huge environmental challenge. plastic parts are found in sea turtles, seals, birds, whales and fish. they enter the food chain, harm the environment and pose a threat to human health. we have all heard the estimate that there will be more plastic than fish in the ocean by 2050. every minute, the equivalent of one garbage truck filled with plastic is being dumped into the ocean. due to the increase in consumption and production, this number is projected to rise substantially. thankfully, although these quantities of plastic and their impact on the marine environment are shocking, just 10 single-use items, along with abandoned and lost fishing gear, represent a great majority of the source of the problem and that is about 70% in all. that allowed the commission, in the directive we tabled in may, to focus directly on the cause of the problem. in the plastics strategy, we made it clear that we do not demonise plastic – it is an adaptable and useful material – but we promised to table a proposal that would tackle marine litter effectively in response to mounting scientific evidence and mounting public outcry. the directive aims at banning certain single-use plastic products where alternatives are readily available and affordable, as is the case for cotton bud sticks, balloon sticks, cutlery, plates, straws and stirrers. where there is no real alternative material to plastic, the directive’s goal is to significantly reduce the use. this will apply to cups and lids, food containers and very light carrier bags. the directive also proposes obligations for producers of tobacco product filters, drink bottles, crisp packets, wet wipes, drink cups and lids, food containers, balloons and very lightweight carrier bags to help cover the costs of waste management and clean-up. we propose a 90% separate collection rate for single-use plastic bottles by 2025. this will positively influence the quality of collected material, making recycling more profitable and making cheaper and better quality recycled plastic available for new products. clear and standardised labelling will be required on sanitary towels, wet wipes and balloons, as they get into our seas and oceans because people do not know how to dispose of them or they are unaware of the negative impact of the products. fishing gear represents around 27% of all beach litter. here, producers will be required to cover the costs of fishing-gear-related waste collection from port reception facilities, its transport and treatment. some of the amendments tabled recently in this house could very significantly reduce the scope of the directive and jeopardise the achievement of its objective. this would not be to the benefit of our citizens. i hope that on wednesday this parliament will give a strong mandate to ms ries which will include no further derogations. as highlighted by president juncker in his state of the union speech ‘citizens have high expectations for this initiative and we, as european institutions, have to meet those expectations.’ this is why i am looking forward to starting negotiations in order to ensure a first-reading agreement during the austrian presidency so that this legislation can make a real difference on the ground as soon as possible.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not a party to the treaty. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european commission for presenting a rather ambitious proposal. we need a strong legal basis for action to reduce plastic pollution. as the rapporteur responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to emphasise that in order to ensure a significant reduction in the use of plastics, we must also pay greater attention to plastic pollution in agriculture, even if this pollution has an indirect impact on the aquatic environment. we must therefore set targets in the directive for the reduction of microplastics in the soil, and we must take additional precautions with regard to the use of biodegradable plastics. we must also ensure that the objectives of the directive are not imposed on our businesses, farmers and consumers. finally, to ensure that our ambitions do not become mere declarations, we need to get all member states to set themselves specific targets for reducing the use of single-use plastic products.
mr president, we welcome you to the european parliament. as you know, as we all know, romania will hold the presidency of the council of the european union for the first time in the first half of next year. it's a very busy schedule. the european parliament is to be elected by direct universal suffrage. it is therefore of particular importance that decisions be taken before the start of the negotiations to reach agreements on which the future of the european union as a whole depends. i'm also thinking about the new financial perspective. the european parliament has a very good view of what is happening in romania. we have seen hundreds of thousands of your citizens take to the streets with a very clear message: stop corruption. our support to all those who fight for the rule of law and who speak out against the legalization of corruption. the future of your country is not the only thing that depends on winning this battle - we are all connected in the european union. that's why your position is so important. i wish you courage and fortitude on this difficult journey. thank you. thank you.
madam president, it is indeed remarkable how many eu citizens participated in the right2water initiative which gave birth to this european parliament resolution. therefore, i have strongly supported this proposal to revise the eu’s drinking water directive. having access to high quality drinkable water is essential for people’s health and the quality of their daily life. the proposal aims to adjust the directive so we can better address new challenges such as climate change and adapt the rules to the new scientific environment and circular economy. in addition, with this proposal we aim at more ambitious water quality standards for human consumption. i hope that as soon as such standards are set in place the member states, including mine, lithuania, will do their best to achieve them; for example, by providing more public drinking-water fountains and improving water infrastructure. we have to ensure safe, affordable and high quality water for our citizens.
for the efdd group madam president, we are often asked in this chamber to speak about human rights violations in countries in asia, africa and latin america. threatening resolutions are passed. the so-called rule of law is often invoked against poland or hungary. the commission's agenda for the nineteen-year-old is full of fine words. it has everything, but it lacks respect for its citizens. i therefore ask: what could the president of the european commission personally and the commission in corpore do to ensure that the convention on human rights also enters into force in lithuania, a european union state, so that citizens can regain their civil rights and the decision of the european court of human rights, which was adopted eight years ago, finally comes into force? because we all know that justice delayed is justice not done.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, madam high representative, more than 10 000 lives have been lost in eastern ukraine. almost two million peaceful ukrainians have had to flee their homes as refugees. as if that were not enough, putin is continuing and has now moved his offensive to the sea of azov. with his personal approval ratings plummeting in russia, it is only natural that the master of the kremlin should be looking for more outside enemies. throughout the ages, this pretext has been well tested by russian tsars and comrades. just as stalin started his political career by robbing bourgeois on russian trains, so is putin now raiding ukrainian and foreign ships, including the ones under eu flags. if not properly countered in time, sooner or later such hostile practices will be treated by the kremlin as a sort of approval to be used in other waters. the only response to this blatant violation of bilateral agreements and international law must be additional restrictive measures against an aggressive kremlin. the situation in which the illegal bridge is constructed with the participation of eu companies, thus undermining eu restrictive measures, is pathetic and unacceptable. the eu must come up with specific legal instruments to deal with this. we need to have an independent eu legal authority empowered to look into cases where eu companies – or persons or countries – have violated our own decisions in place. those in the eu found to be in breach of the eu’s sanctions must be penalised themselves. to conclude, it is regrettable to see how putin is able to turn everything upside down. throughout the centuries, people across the globe have been proud of building bridges. and then along comes putin, who transforms the ‘bridge-building’ narrative into another form of aggression against a neighbour.
dear prime minister, what russia is doing in the sea of azov is a continuation of the aggression against ukraine. russian actions in the kerch strait have resulted in losses for eu member states' vessels romania, bulgaria and others, as well as for turkish vessels. this is a russian naval blockade designed to create more tension in the region and further economic damage to ukraine. the ports of mariupol and berdyansk are the two main ukrainian ports for the export of steel and grain on the sea of azov. the damage they suffer is immense. ukraine is considering terminating the bilateral agreement with russia on the status and use of the sea of azov, which has been in force since 2003, as this agreement is rendered meaningless by the actions of russia that we are considering. the international law of the sea would then be in force, and we, the european union, would have to ensure that its requirements were respected. if not, sanctions on russia will be even tougher than they are now. we should pay more attention to that region and the militarization of the azov sea.
madam president, the situation in venezuela is still deteriorating dramatically, the country is facing an unprecedented political, social, economic and humanitarian crisis - we know this. since president maduro took power, human rights violations and clashes with civil society have become commonplace. poverty, lack of medicine the situation is so desperate that hiv and cancer patients are no longer being treated, and parents are forced to send their hungry children to orphanages. instead of long-awaited government decisions, there was an even greater effort to portray an alternative reality. as mentioned earlier today, there are more than 2.3 million refugees from venezuela in recent years. this is a huge humanitarian crisis and we have to find ways to respond to it. first, we need to help our partners in the region deal with the flow of refugees from venezuela. secondly, we must get the venezuelan authorities to allow humanitarian aid into the country immediately. and thirdly, we need an international mediation and contact group that is acceptable to both sides. we need a political solution to this crisis and the only way is peaceful.
madam president, i think the european council has finally realised that the influx of migrants is the death knell for europe. i welcome the proposals to curb illegal migration, strengthen border security and increase the number of officials. the european council's understanding of this issue may also lead the other european institutions to finally come to an understanding and to abandon their attacks on the community countries which have categorically advocated limiting migration even at internal borders. do you think that without their firmness and their firm stance, illegal migration would have decreased? it is the return directive, not the allocation of migrants among the member states of the european union, which must be the key document to which we must refer from now on. however, i was struck by the council's approach and attention to the problems of social exclusion. it is precisely these that are becoming more acute in many community countries today. thinking only about cybersecurity, but not reducing social exclusion in society, will not solve the problems in the european union.
madam president, like many of my predecessors, i regret that the recent council did not deliver the expected results on brexit. the united kingdom wants more time to reach an agreement, and there is still no agreement because there is no solution to the problems. the important problems that brexit will bring, first and foremost, are the irish border. the second issue, which my country, lithuania, is also waiting for a decision, is the situation of citizens of the member states of the european union in the united kingdom after brexit. we don't want a no-deal divorce, but every day makes me think we have to be prepared for this scenario, too. there is no deal within the uk, there is no deal with the european union - we all lose. it's about migration. we all understand the importance of this issue, but again, the council has not achieved the desired result. illegal migration is happening, and we, the strong european union, year after year, are unable to find a solution to this problem. our structure is not working? let's change them, reform them. but we have to get it done. it's about homeland security. our citizens rank security as the highest priority. the european parliament elections are coming up. it is important to us that our citizens are able to express their will freely, so that their opinions and will are not manipulated. the budget of the european union. we need an agreement on this, too. i know and understand that this is not an easy question, but many of the solutions to the problems are based on funding issues. i would ask the council to find the political will to deal with this matter before the european parliament elections. i will be frank: i am not in charge of the european council. you have a mandate, where the results are, where the decisions are that everyone expects? our inaction has a price: it strengthens our opponents, it fuels populism and extremism in europe.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, i would like to add my voice to the congratulations on the very good evaluation of your report. i would also like to mention that i believe that the joint work with the committee on budgetary control, its principled position for a number of years, almost two terms, has made it possible to boast today of the results that have been mentioned here. however, i believe that there is one problem that needs to be addressed in the future, which has persisted since the 1980s - that is, the reliability of data received from the member states. perhaps, madam president, you know very well what i am talking about, that the data that we have today is not reliable, but we sometimes make some reports from it. and also, our lives are moving forward, and there are going to be some priorities in the future, particularly if we're talking about funding for defense, which will also require a lot of oversight, closing nuclear power plants, which is a very complicated issue to control the use of funds, and of course our aid and support funds. so again, congratulations and thanks for the report.
in writing. there is a lot of talk in europe about the need to move to clean energy. however, it is important to assess the situation in each country: how much investment would be required to build new infrastructure, and what progress has been made in this area. the most important thing is that the implementation of the objectives, which is too rapid or poorly planned, does not become an unbearable burden for the state. the union needs to carefully calculate the amounts of support to be granted to the member states, taking into account possible unplanned costs. it is not enough to simply encourage the purchase and use of electric vehicles. after all, the equipment you use must be taken care of. there are also sufficient numbers of such equipment on the roads. i am totally in favour of clean mobility and i am in favour of alternative biofuels. i support scientific and technological advancement. it is therefore essential to continuously promote investment in technologies to achieve the clean mobility objectives in all eu countries and to increase the capacity of technologies to ensure quality of consumption.
madam president, first i want to congratulate our rapporteur for his work on this report. i think the committee on international trade (inta) has adopted a very well—balanced report on the trade aspects of harnessing globalisation. however, there is an amendment tabled for the plenary, which has been rejected in the inta committee, on a sanctions-based enforcement mechanism in the eu’s tsd chapters. this would oblige the eu to find ways to determine how a breach of social or environmental standards can be transformed into economic compensation and this narrows down the scope of the tsd chapter. we cannot agree with this. such an approach does not fit with the eu’s model. the commission already has a 15—point plan to make the eu tsd chapters more effective. colleagues, i call on you to vote against this amendment, as its adoption would mean a significant setback for our trade policy and send the wrong message to our trading partners and the commission.
for the verts/ale group climate change is increasing the frequency of extreme natural events. last year, my country, lithuania, suffered from continuous rains and floods. the country has been hit by a drought this year. for two years in a row, our agriculture has suffered from emergencies. the european union has granted lithuania eur 26 million in compensation for damage. however, this represents only 6% of the direct damage suffered. the real, non-monetary damage is that in the dairy sector alone, 19% of farms have gone out of production in the last year and a half, and the number of cows has fallen by 9%. in addition, farmers in the baltic countries receive the lowest direct payments from the european union. this puts them in an even more difficult situation. i have in my hands an appeal from the baltic meps calling for the unification of payments to our farmers in the next financial period. i hope that both you, the commission and the members of the council, will agree that europe must be equally responsible to all its farmers and that the payments must be harmonised in the next period.
in writing. the european parliament's understandable and timely call on the european commission to take action to safeguard the rights of national minorities in the european union. this is particularly relevant in the face of the wave of radical political forces that is emerging in the eu. there are also some truly vulnerable ethnic communities, such as the roma, who, as they lack a state of their own and are dispersed across countries, are completely dependent on the national minority policies of those countries. community-wide attention would therefore be a significant support for them in maintaining their national identity, language and culture. as a member of the european parliament, he is working hard to ensure that the roma community in his member state has as many opportunities as possible to develop its language. i therefore regard this report as a good step forward in bringing the concerns of the roma minority into the eu context. another important focus of the report is the call for centralised monitoring of the implementation of the rights of national minorities throughout the eu. such objective monitoring would prevent third countries with their own, not always friendly, objectives from speculating on assessments of the situation of national minorities in the eu.
today, more than numbers are at stake in the discussions on the new multiannual financial framework. far more important are the basic principles on which we must agree. one of them is the efficient, rational and effective use of funds. that's what's supposed to reduce social exclusion, unemployment, and spur economic breakthroughs. but how do you explain to people why, at the end of each funding period, after billions of investments in many sectors of the economy, the poverty risk indicators in the european union do not decrease, but increase. i'd like to ask you another question. if the funding for the defence fund is to be increased compared with the previous period, does this mean that the european union is developing and financing its own military and abandoning the collective security organisation nato? madam president, i am categorically against the new fund, which the programme calls by the rather fancy name of 'rights and values for justice', and which is intended to protect and promote globalist ideas with almost two billion euros. i think agriculture or shutting down ignalina needs that two billion more.
in writing. first of all, i would like to stress that we must strive to implement the social europe and the european pillar of social rights, i.e. to increase employment, to promote gender equality, to protect the rights of the child, to combat poverty, especially severe child poverty, to combat income inequality. and to do all this, we need to have adequate funding for social policy measures, because there is certainly not enough money available at the moment to deal with social issues. i therefore urge the commission and the member states to provide a specific budget for the european child guarantee in the new long-term budget, to ensure that every child has access to health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition, including help for parents to find a job and overcome social exclusion. secondly, i regret that no significant progress has been made in the area of gender equality and that no clear gender equality strategy with specific objectives, targets and allocations has been established under the 2014-2020 budget. i therefore urge the commission and the council to include a gender perspective in all areas as far as possible in the new multiannual budget and to allocate sufficient funds to address gender equality issues.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to start by highlighting the importance of the very fact that this house has decided to evaluate and deliver its reports on the implementation of the association agreements with the associate partners of the european union. these are georgia, moldova and ukraine. the deliberations and today’s and tomorrow’s vote on this report must be viewed as additional confirmation of the eu’s strong political commitment vis—à—vis best performance in the eastern neighbourhood. in my capacity as standing rapporteur on moldova, i hereby wish to dwell on the main findings and conclusions of my report. i will do so in all frankness and sincerity as a true friend of european moldova. the eu—moldova partnership is not abstract. the eu and moldova are bound by a very solid and comprehensive association agreement document which contains a set of legal and political obligations. it is a partnership based on common values, and respect for democratic principles and fundamental freedoms. this is exactly what worries me the most: a continuous and even deliberate back—sliding in relation to democratic standards in moldova over the last couple of years. to begin with, i do regret that the moldovan authorities choose to confront or even disregard the joint opinion and recommendations of respected european institutions – the venice commission and the odihr – as regards the recent changes in national electoral legislation. this house, as well as other european institutions, has been doing its utmost to explain to chișinău that electoral legislation must not be tailor—made and changed a year before elections, bypassing civil society and other political actors in moldova. i am very upset that the advice of the european bodies has not been taken into account. i must also say that the moldovan authorities’ actions that led to invalidation of chișinău’s mayoral elections earlier this year were very disturbing. equally disappointing was – and continues to be – the lack of real progress and transparency in the investigation of a usd 1 billion bank fraud case. i wish to repeat our call in the report, namely that the findings and recommendations of the two independent kroll reports must be published in full, and those responsible for the fraud must face real justice. to continue, i wish to stress that the so—called fiscal reform package is giving us grounds for another serious concern. our report states that this tax amnesty scheme is substantially doubtful, insufficient and lacks transparency – and sometimes even logic. for all the reasons mentioned above, i must say – and i am saying this with regret – that the eu was left with no other choice in deciding to put on hold the macro—financial assistance and budget support programmes foreseen for moldova. moldova seems to be the first country, at least in recent years, that has had to face such strict conditionality measures from the eu side, resulting in the suspension of eu assistance. i am sure you will agree that this is a fact that speaks for itself. colleagues, in sending this message we continue to extend our hand of cooperation to the moldovan authorities and civil society at large, in order to stay in close touch. in exchange, i believe we will reach our goal. moldovans will understand that the only way forward is europeanisation – meaning a comprehensive package of political and economic reforms.
it is not possible to talk for one minute about two countries that are important to us, georgia and moldova, with whom we have association agreements. so it was just a telegram. on 28 october, the first round of the presidential elections took place in georgia. i was in charge of the european parliament's election observation delegation. the date of the second round, more than two weeks after the first, is still unknown. our delegation had concerns and doubts about the financing of the candidates' election campaigns, a very negative election campaign. some of the highest state officials have targeted civil society organisations that monitored the elections with verbal attacks. two georgian territories - abkhazia and tskhinvali, or south ossetia - are detached from georgia and controlled by kremlin puppet regimes. georgian citizens living there were not allowed to vote, and the de facto authorities of south ossetia closed all administrative border crossing points on the day of the elections. these elections are a test of the readiness of the georgian authorities and the whole country for further european integration. i hope and wish georgia well in this examination.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank everybody taking part in the debate on moldova and georgia today in this house. i don’t think our position should be defined by political sides or the political groups we belong to. i don’t think our reports are politicised. i reject that suggestion from the very beginning. the key words we are trying to send and are using to assess the situation are bilateral commitment, partnership and merit—based assessment. these were, and will be, the key principles for the eu—moldova relationship in the future. the european union wishes for nothing more, but nothing less. we wish to give a chance to the irreversibility of democratic transformation in moldova. we wish to see an independent judiciary, fair elections and free media working in moldova. presently there is still far too big a deficit of europe in moldova. i wish to conclude by emphasising that the coming parliamentary elections are of defining importance for years to come for moldova, as well as for its relations with the european union. i hope that the moldovan authorities will act in accordance with primary principles: in democracy, it is not about who wins, it is about how they win. i hope those principles will be obeyed, and we will see the elections we expect. commissioner, thank you for your clear message. it is indeed in line with this report. i hope in our joint efforts we will build a different future for moldova – a moldova where people will freely be european.
for the verts/ale group dear mr president and madam commissioner, colleagues today circulated to the european council, parliament and commission a joint appeal signed by the baltic meps calling for the unification of payments to our farmers in the next financial period. agriculture is an integral part of the single market and it is therefore necessary to give the european union's competition authorities powers which will ensure that farmers in all our member states enjoy equal conditions of competition in farming. since the baltic farmers receive the lowest direct payments from the european union, they are in a particularly discriminatory competitive situation. i hope that you, my colleagues, and the representatives of the european commission and the council will agree that europe must assume responsibility for all its farmers equally and that the harmonization of payments must be completed in another period.
mr president, i support this interim report. we should take good note of the effectiveness of our expenditure to ensure political goals. having limited political resources, we need to name clear political priorities. i believe that adequate resources have to be ensured to tackle new challenges. among other priorities, we should properly finance such fields as defence and security, the erasmus+ and horizon programmes, allocate adequate funds to the civil society in the eu neighbourhood and ensure that the cohesion policy is for now kept at least at the 2014—2019 levels before gradually downsizing it. the mff needs to be ambitious, effective and forward—looking. therefore, i fully support developing the eu own resources which should fill in the budget gap left by brexit without increasing the fiscal burden for citizens.
mr president, in this complex global security environment, it is undeniable that sometimes weapons and other military machinery might also end up in conflict zones, contributing to grave human rights violations. the common position on arms exports lays down procedure and common criteria by which individual member states should guide their transactions of arms and military technologies. profits cannot be made at the expense of human security and respect of human rights. each member state should take the responsibility for its arms exports. within this report, we call on the exporting countries to apply assessment criteria when exporting weaponry, and ensure full transparency of such transactions. selling weapons to violent regimes is not a matter of negotiation.
mr president, i’m very glad the georgian government continues to demonstrate political will and determination to further advance the reforms within the scope of the association agreement. i also welcome the wide—ranging support of the georgian people for the country’s pro—european choice, as well as the long—standing cross—party accord for this strategic policy goal. while undergoing economic and social reforms, georgia equally – as other countries with european inspirations – needs to stay firmly focused on the implementation of its political obligations too. full respect of core democratic principles and fundamental freedoms is the country’s essential commitment within the association agreement and needs to remain an absolute priority for this and other georgian governments for years to come.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bogusław liberadzki, for a really very good document, prepared because we amended the 2009 rules. i'm all for passenger rights. however, i would like to draw some attention to some of the provisions mentioned in relation to the renewal of the fleet. it has been mentioned, and i think it is very important, because not every country is doing it in a timely and appropriate way, and also to the development of intermodal transport. as you know, each country invests a lot of money every year in new projects and renew old projects. i am referring in particular to the connecting europe facility, where we are investing tens of billions in the creation of new projects, and this will be very important in the future because the rail baltica project in particular will have a very important political significance, that the peripheral states of the baltic countries will be incorporated into the transport system of the european union. this document will facilitate the integration of these new projects into the common system.
in writing. one of the most important achievements in the rail sector is the establishment of a legal framework for the protection of passenger rights, which forms part of the eu's broader consumer rights policy. the commission has recognised in its implementation report that the regulation on rail passengers' rights and obligations is properly applied in the sector. however, in full compliance with the provisions of this regulation, several member states exempt certain articles of the regulation due to insufficient financial means for the modernisation of abandoned railway infrastructure or obsolete rolling stock. it is good that such exemptions will no longer be possible from december 2024. passenger rights will therefore be guaranteed in the same way in all eu member states. there is another important detail. providers of alternative transport services are obliged to provide similar levels of assistance and access to alternative transport services to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. these alternative services may be shared by all passengers or, if the carrier so chooses, an individual vehicle adapted to the specific needs of certain disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. access for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility to the entire eu rail system should also be ensured by means of a notice period as short as possible and not exceeding 24 hours. this service should be free of charge.
mr president, i think that when we talk about the importance of care services in the european union, today and in the future, we have to talk about two aspects in general: how care services promote and contribute to equality between women and men at work and at home, and how we can ensure that the pay, social protection, safety and health at work of care providers is improved. unfortunately, the evidence shows that the lack of adequate, accessible and safe care services is a painful response to women's professional self-fulfilment and, in more mundane terms, simply creates conditions for women's poverty, which accumulates to almost 40% of the pension gap in old age. why is that? it's because women's emancipation is happening much more slowly at home than in the workplace. in fact, in most cases, if a woman chooses a career, it is understood as an additional choice to the unpaid care of children or sick family members, or to domestic work. women are still punished if they choose to have both a career and a family. but it is not just women who suffer. the public suffers. yes, the first, most important step towards equality has been taken, not only at work but also at home, and for that i want to thank the european commission again, and thank you, commissioner. i am talking about the proposal for a directive on reconciliation of work and private life. i also urge the council not to make the mistake of reducing this long-awaited legislation to something that would not bring tangible benefits. i want to encourage national governments to understand that this legislation is the best investment in the future of our people, our countries and our union. and invite you to see this as a show of solidarity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, freedom of expression in bangladesh is under attack. this is no surprise, as this year bangladesh is ranked 146 out of 180 on the world press freedom index. we see visible signs that the authorities have increased their crackdown on civil society and government critics, with such means as detentions, enforced disappearances and the use of violence. in addition, on 5 august, writer, former journalist and activist shahidul alam was imprisoned after speaking out against state violence on the student protest in dhaka. this must stop. i call the government to repeal its digital security act used to crack down on dissidents and human rights defenders and immediately release shahidul alam. i call on the commission to assess if the tariff preferences that dhaka enjoys for the time being under the everything but arms agreement should not be put under question. the eu cannot be just a watcher in this regard.
prime minister, thank you very much for your very consistent position on the danish side, we are really envious of you and envious of certain things that you are still independent today on some issues. but first, i'd like to ask you a question. i'm from lithuania, a baltic country. we, as the baltic states, are not only active in the european union and loyal to the common principles we have signed up to. first of all, what would you do in our place when our standard of living is and you know why, because we've had other neighbors and different our past sixty years when our state's standard of living is low and when our companies can't pay those drivers the kind of salary that you're trying to tell us? secondly, what would you do when the big countries in the european union bypass the joint agreements and get their gas through nord stream i, nord stream ii? what would you do when our neighbor is constantly, every time, threatening, and we're scared every night that there's some kind of invasion that was, that happened in '41? i congratulate you very much on your independence in '45, but we only got it in '91. so, prime minister, if you answer "i don't know", i'll be very pleased.
on behalf of the s&d group dear president, we should not only talk about the rights of disabled people, including the rights of disabled women, and improve their quality of life on the eve of disabled people's day, but we should also work on this issue on a regular basis together with the commission, the member states, and of course with the involvement of disabled people's civil society organisations. we are constantly talking about the european pillar of social rights and the european disability strategy, but unfortunately we are failing to reduce discrimination against disabled people, especially women with disabilities, and we are failing to provide what seem to be the most basic things for these people: jobs, income, inclusion in civic and political life. the unemployment rate of the disabled remains unacceptable, but they are at a significantly higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. in addition, women with disabilities face greater barriers to entering the labour market and, in turn, to living a normal and independent life, as work is not only a source of income but also a means of social inclusion, helping to establish links with the wider society. the work of disabled women is often underpaid, let alone their old age pensions. another problem is that there is little data on the nature of work and employment situation of women with disabilities in general. in the absence of specific data broken down by sex, it is very difficult to deal with cases of discrimination, and i therefore call on the commission as a whole to identify specific measures to deal with these problems, to ensure adequate funding, through the european union's structural funds.
in writing. digital and social skills are becoming synonymous, so the lack of digital skills leads to a risk of social exclusion. digital literacy statistics for the european union are relentless currently, 44% of the eu population aged 16-74 lack basic digital skills and 19% lack digital skills at all, with wide disparities between member states. as a lithuanian mep, i can be proud that in my member state there are no major issues with internet accessibility (and data transfer speeds) in this sense we are at the forefront of europe. however, it is important to keep reminding ourselves that the focus on digital skills must be a clear priority in the education system. we are talking about this at eu level, and it needs to be on the agenda of every member state. in the digital age, we are increasingly vulnerable to threats related to cybersecurity gaps, breaches of personal data or false information. these threats must therefore be given due attention in the education system. i am convinced that the understanding of digital literacy in education should move from the ability to use digital technologies as a consumer to the ability to create digital content and form and to critically evaluate what is created. finally, the principle of lifelong learning is particularly relevant in this context in responding to the challenges of the digital age.
for the efdd group the streets of paris are writing the death sentence for the politics of today's european union. i am writing to all those who, by serving capital and despising society, are destroying the european union. the lies and hypocrisy of politicians have overwhelmed the patience of a society that today is overflowing with anger and protest. brexit is the beginning of the end of this policy of the european union. the proposed un pact on the free movement of migrants around the world is the end of the beginning of the end, and many european leaders are writing it with a light hand. you're writing your own death warrant as a victim. let it be on their conscience. this is the beginning of a change in the european union's policy to change or to fail.
rapporteur. – mr president, yesterday we commemorated the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, a document which has had a tremendously positive impact on the lives of so many around the world. however, the celebration has been more thought-provoking than i would have wished for, and this is reflected in the conclusions of this report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2017. it is only to be regretted that recent years, including 2017, have been marked by a dramatic increase in human rights violations, democracy crises and conflicts all over the world, affecting the most vulnerable of our societies. the persecution of rohingyas in myanmar, the crackdown of opposition in cambodia, venezuela or nicaragua, the rule of law disarray in congo, war crimes in syria and yemen, drastically shrinking civil society space in our direct neighbourhood, russia – these are numerous other examples which stand before my eyes as a painful reminder of the negligence of human rights principles. in parallel, we have also seen the growing number of populist and nationalist forces, even among the eu member states who resort to means such as using disinformation and restricting clauses to consolidate their power. these are all the worrying trends which have been taken into account and documented in the report and its country annexes. the aim of this document is to provide a critical analysis of the eu’s actions and provide answers to the questions on what more can be done from the eu side, and how we can advance our human rights action response to make it more effective, pre-emptive and focused. therefore, despite being concerned, i am also optimistic, because during the preparatory work of this report we have found a strong agreement throughout the entire political spectrum in this house on our main priorities in the human rights field. there was a firm understanding and agreement that the eu is, and shall remain, the leader in the human rights fight in the world and the un system. i believe that the eu’s global role in leadership also implies coordination and guidance in fighting a common position among western community counterparts, which would place human rights at the heart of its foreign policy. by this, i also refer to the rather disappointing stance by our current us leadership in this regard. for the eu to be more effective, it is crucial that the human rights clauses are mainstreamed to all our external policies and agreements, including trade policy. deepening political and economic ties with eu partner countries is our fundamental objective, but for this goal to be achieved we should aim to make better use of the human rights conditionality. i am convinced that in such cases when partner countries persistently fail to observe the principles of democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, there is a point in time when we have to face certain sanctions from the eu side. on the other hand, those who respect their commitments to these principles should receive adequate privileges for being eu partners. i strongly call on the eu member states to uphold this commitment in their bilateral agreements, too. as far as other priorities are concerned, with this report we emphasise the importance of strengthening support to human rights defenders in our neighbourhood and third countries. our support to their tireless and courageous endeavours is the only way to go forward.
rapporteur. – mr president, at this point i would like to sincerely thank all my colleagues and shadows from all political groups for the very good cooperation and many excellent ideas. my very special thanks go to representatives from the ngo community and human rights defenders. we enjoyed consultations with them and their input into our report is very significant. i wish to highlight the words of the high representative. there can’t be, in principle, a contradiction between the national interest and human rights. if it is so, something is wrong, probably with the national interests and not with the human rights. indeed, i wish to acknowledge, stavros lambrinidis, the very positive role of your activities as eu special representative for human rights. good luck to you in your next appointment. if the eu wants to be – and it must be – ambitious and firm in its commitment to human rights, it has a very good chance. i believe this is the only way to go while keeping our global role as a global leader in human rights policy. i thank you all for this debate, and i wish to see next year’s report being more positive on human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, congratulations to michael gahler on his very comprehensive report on ukraine’s progress. today we can be proud that the eu’s extended hand to the people of ukraine in response to the maidan revolution of dignity to enter into the european association dialogue is already marked with success and major changes in the country’s life. what inspires me most is that the transformation of the european ukrainian nation has reached a point of no return. i am convinced about this; namely, this makes me believe that the remaining internal challenges such as deoligarchisation, the fight against corruption and judicial reform will yield the results that we all expect. moscow continues its aggression and provocations, such as by annexation of the kerch strait just recently. let’s acknowledge this. the success of european ukraine is seen by the kremlin as a direct danger and this is completely wrong. putin is a violator of international law in this regard.
in writing. first of all, it must be stressed that the european union is still experiencing the greatest economic, social and political crisis since its foundation. all eu institutions, agencies and services should feel obliged to ensure full transparency and the highest standards of ethics and accountability. according to the european parliament's rapporteur, the ineffective approach taken by the eu institutions to tackle the lack of transparency in both the eu decision-making process and lobbying and other important ethical issues within the institutions is unfortunately contributing to further damage to the eu's image and to the growth of public frustration and dissatisfaction. in this context, the rapporteur recalls that the eu has not yet adopted a mandatory eu transparency register to ensure full transparency of all eu institutions, agencies and third parties in relation to lobbying activities. the rapporteur also stresses that eu legislation on access to documents is very outdated. the european parliament also considers that the european ombudsman has a crucial role to play in ensuring the transparency and impartiality of eu decision-making processes and administration in order to successfully protect citizens' rights, and supports the european ombudsman's inquiry into the informal negotiations of the three main eu institutions (tripartite dialogues).
in writing. – it was already time not only to recognise the potential of new technologies and how they can move forward europe’s economy, but also to take action for it to happen. the programme focuses on five areas – ai, supercomputers, cybersecurity, digital skills and digital transformation of public administration – where the funding should go. i support the commission’s ambition to finally establish such a programme but the proposed amount of eur 9.1 billion rather limits its ambition. for example, for ai an allocation of eur 2.5 billion is planned for 2021-2027 to boost europe’s economy and enhance society, and help europe in the ai race with the us and china. i believe that unfortunately it will be rather difficult for europe to become the front runner knowing that the us and china have already invested billions in ai and are planning to continue. by 2030 china plans to build an usd 1 trillion ai industry. europe needs a clear vision and a common european industrial policy on ai, so the allocation of funds would be successful. also, i welcome the allocation of funds for digital skills which is crucial for europe due to an already existing shortage of qualified people in ict.
in writing. the overall objective of the digital europe programme should be to support the digital transformation of industry. the industrial potential of the policy instruments for innovation, research and technological development should also be encouraged to be better exploited for the benefit of union-wide businesses and citizens. the rapporteur rightly points out that this is essential if europe is to keep up with the rapid pace of the industrial and digital revolution and to ensure that our economy and society are properly prepared. it is essential to ensure european competitiveness and progressive, inclusive and sustainable growth. in order to create a well-functioning digital single market for the whole of europe, certain key preconditions should be fulfilled in all member states. the lack of digital service infrastructure and capacity continues to hamper the development of seamless cross-border services. the union and its programmes should support and allocate appropriate funds to the fulfilment of key preconditions and to the creation of digital service infrastructures. the examination of the missing interfaces, functions and features needed for digital services and their deployment at a wide scale at local, national and european level, covering all sectors of the european economy, should be the starting point. cybersecurity is a union-wide challenge that can no longer be addressed by fragmented national initiatives alone. european cybersecurity capabilities should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the financial sector.
in writing. no country in the world can justify any violence or inhuman treatment. i think that tanzania must work with other countries in the world, learn from experience in the context of peacekeeping. we must create favourable conditions for citizens to live, study, work and develop fully. the stabilisation process should include the establishment of a sustainable legal framework and the effective implementation of that framework. action is needed to show and prove to the people that order and stability can prevail in the country. an independent judiciary should be established, strong protection for children and women, including the prevention of violence, an enabling environment for the dissemination of knowledge and information, and access to essential health services and facilities should be provided. a country should not be politically isolated from other states. it is necessary to strengthen cooperation in various policy areas and to sign key international agreements, such as those on the protection of human rights. it also requires measures and methods to combat crime and effective and impartial police action. tanzania must take immediate political action to restore public confidence in the public authorities.
