the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources, energy efficiency and governance. we are not going to give speeches on sundays, which we will forget on wednesday when we vote. it 's about two things: one is ambition. anyone who's been involved with paris, with climate change, with modelling the knowledge, knows that 27 percent renewable, 30 percent efficiency will mean that in the next decade, europe will be blowing so much co2 emissions into the atmosphere that we would then have to be zero by 2030 to 2040 to stay in our carbon budget, which is impossible. this means that we need more ambition in the votes on renewables and efficiency, otherwise we have already given up on the 'below 2°c' target. the other is the frame. and what michèle has said, what we have tried to do in our joint report, is to get the eu to build those bridges where there were still gaps and not enough bridges to the paris agreement. paris requires a report every five years. we in europe are at ten, and we are now trying to report every five years so that europe is coherent internally and externally. paris also says: every report must actually go more towards climate protection, in english we say ratcheting up also this is not provided for in the current eu legislation. to make it clear to the people outside and to the economy outside what this is about, we need a clear target for 2050. that's why we're calling for net zero by 2050: zero by 2050. if we do not do that - and there is an amendment from the ppe which says: we want the paris agreement. what do you mean, "i'm not"? net zero would make it clear to everyone that by 2050, the last oil and gas heating must be gone, that by 2050, cars, all transportation must be co2-free, and electricity much sooner anyway. that is to say, without a clear indication of where we are going, how are we going to get society, the people outside, the economy to fully recognize this challenge? so one of them is this frame. but because we have unfortunately given up in the renewables report the national binding targets that i have always defended as rapporteur - which is of course a simple, unbureaucratic tool to get governments to expand renewables - because we have given up on that, we have to now go into some of the governance in much more detail here, what does it mean when we have at european level 35 per cent renewables as a spending target, and how do we put that in a corset so that national governments deliver that? that is why we have drawn up article 27 in greater detail and with a wider scope than the commission had envisaged. one last word: energy poverty. we've been talking about this for years. we have now succeeded - and i thank the liberal shadow rapporteur and the epp rapporteur - in having for the first time a binding text whereby governments which have energy poverty at home must now also take measures to combat it in their national plans. this is also a very important step forward for the cohesion of citizens, including some of the poorest citizens in europe, and for the european union project.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. peter, the commissioner has proposed a compromise before: at least 35% without conditionality and a strong article 7. but mr pieper, who has sadly left us, is very keen on the following: more ict, less efficiency. in luxembourg, a google data centre is now being built, which uses more electricity than the entire luxembourg steel industry. well, this is absolute bullshit. more ict means more electricity consumption. so we need to make it more efficient. and the second conditionality on renewables: what would that mean? that would mean that if germany, france and another third-largest country were to do a little bit more renewable than the weak target, then the european efficiency target would fall by 3 or 4%. do you think we need an unconditional target of at least 35%? i think that is the compromise we must find between now and wednesday.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not ambition and realism ambition must mean on wednesday: at least 35% renewable, at least 35% energy efficiency, without the mitigations proposed by mr pieper, that if we do more than ict, less efficiency would be needed, or with more renewables, less efficiency, and a strong article 7. perhaps we should also appeal to the ppe, which has already worked well with renewables, to the efficiency we can achieve. we need a clear goal in governance. when we tell the citizens, the industry in europe, that we want to be net zero by 2050, we create a clear target. carlos moedas, our commissioner for research, wants to innovate with a clear objective: mission zero mission zero 2050, and that is why i would be glad if the epp would join us on wednesday, so that we do not have some shaky prospect that says: compatible with paris, but a clear net zero objective. i would like to say a few words to the commissioner and to his excellent team: mr cañete, you are right! it is this alliance between you as the commission - which is also prepared to say: our proposal was good, but it can be even better - and us as the european parliament: if we manage on wednesday to have an ambitious and realistic position, then i am very optimistic that we will be able to negotiate this text overall, with the help of a number of progressive member states - germany, france, sweden, luxembourg, portugal, ireland - so that we can send mr cañete to krakow at some point at the end of the year with good news, namely that europe is continuing to work properly on climate protection.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank mr lange for introducing the debate and the commissioner for setting a very real issue. the debate this evening is about the fundamental issues of international trade and human development. trade is a means, while human development is an end. logically, we should do everything we can to achieve the purpose of the sustainable development goals. it is about health, education, access to clean water in developing countries, in particular. the rules governing international trade are well codified. the reason why these rules are generally respected is that, in the event of non-compliance, they enable the injured party to refer the matter to the wto dispute settlement body, which has the power to apply sanctions against the defaulting country. there is no such thing as achieving the sustainable development goals. the un has adopted a resolution to this effect, but there is no provision for sanctions in the event of failure to achieve the sdgs. the process to address this important gap in global governance is lagging and needs to be addressed. it is not because the task is difficult, because it seems impossible to do, that we should fold our arms and wait for godot, because godot will not come, as václav havel said, because godot does not exist. but the union does exist. yes, the european union should increase its initiatives to ensure that the sustainable development goals are accompanied by a real obligation to achieve results. the european union must act on two levels. first, at the level of global governance, by trying to convince its g7 and g20 partners, as well as its partners at the wto, that environmental and social standards are not only indispensable, but above all in the interest of all countries and all the citizens of those countries. a second avenue to be explored is to provide in these bilateral agreements, with all third countries, for accompanying measures in neighbourhood policy, in its development policy, in its trade agreements, with a view to achieving these objectives.
rapporteur. – mr president, good day, sunshine. good day, paris agreement. the people of this planet thank you for this vote. dear president, dear pavel, on behalf of the co-rapporteur, michèle rivasi, and myself, i would like to request a referral of the matter back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59, paragraph 4, subparagraph 4 of the rules of procedure.
i have to say, madam president, these horrible images, plastic on the beach, plastic in the woods. animals that die miserably fish, cows. and then these pictures, that there's a continent in the ocean, so to speak, all made of plastic. i also think it's good that you gave the actual number. at some point, we'll have more plastic in the ocean than fish. i think it is good that the commission is finally doing something. i'm sitting here with mother teresa of all plastic bags. she is a priest and has probably converted mr timmermans, so the juncker commission is finally making the small things that people care about big. i'm glad you changed your mind, and i'm glad you did. well, then we need more laws. but i'll tell you something from my own personal history. in 1991, as a young man, i was at a unece conference, so europe, canada and so on. we were discussing a ban on pvc then. why? because the experts at the time said, if i mix pvc and polyethylene and other plastics, i get downcycling, or i have to burn it. i would therefore say that the commission's real political courage would be to ban all plastic which, after being recycled, does not become a regular product. that is the real challenge and i hope the commission will dare to take it up.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this automotive industry, it's simply not to be outdone. so much for unscrupulous, so much for unethical. so these monkey tests and human tests are really just further evidence of the unethical nature of this lobby. this raises three questions for the european commission. the first is that we must close the loopholes in the legislation on animal testing. it is clear in cosmetics, why not in other areas? second question: professor dr. greim, the head of these monkey tests, sits on the committees of you on diesel, on glyphosate and on a third substance, the endocrine disruptors. how is that possible? if he doesn't get out of there next week, i think you're in trouble. thirdly, mrs harms has raised it: the real scandal is that hundreds of millions of eu citizens are exposed to diesel and non-compliant diesel cars. where's your list of hardware updates? i've been promised for weeks, months. when will the commission come out with a list of cars that can be upgraded to put an end to this very scandal that is killing people in europe?
mr president, at the moment, it seems to me that the main problem facing the european union is the refusal of several member states to accept any burden in terms of receiving refugees or asylum seekers. these same states - and among them the biggest beneficiaries of the cohesion funds - go so far as to oppose the application of european law by categorically refusing to apply quotas. this is unacceptable, unacceptable. there are many words to describe this behaviour, which is also incompatible with the copenhagen criteria, which the applicant countries had to comply with when they joined the union. what, in your view, should be done to put an end to this mixture of indifference, selfishness, nationalism and irresponsibility? what initiatives and responses do you think are most appropriate in the face of this phenomenon?
madam president, there are many of us in this house, and i hope there is unanimity, who want to put an end to genital mutilation, which is still too often a horror in many countries. the minimum that can and should be done in this case is to ban it by law. but prohibition alone will not abolish these crimes. yes, it is a crime. we have to go beyond the legal prohibition. the legal and financial means, in particular, must be provided to translate this ambition into reality and to put in place strategies aimed at abolishing this violence to which millions of girls are still exposed without defence. it is therefore important to mobilise all the means available, in the framework of a strategy to be set up by the commission, and in particular to provide full support to un actors, such as the un population fund, whose interventions are very promising. i know that because i helped fund this kind of program. i would also like to conclude by saying that it seems appropriate to make the threat of making official development aid dependent on the willingness of the recipient country to put an end to crimes for which there is no mitigating factor.
mr president, i am aware that the carnival season is starting but i was not that aware that it had already cast its shadow over one or two colleagues! to return to more serious matters, i welcome every sentence that the high representative has said about the involvement that the european union intends to recommence with zimbabwe, after a long period where our presence was not only not overwhelming but indeed not much welcomed. i want, however, to draw attention to the fact that such a state of affairs may well be lingering on, at least in part. nearly four decades of robert mugabe’s rule have estranged the european continent from parts of the zimbabwean population and we need to win back a significant share of trust – trust which has now, very intentionally, been shifted towards china and the general idea of the east. it is probably a good thing that, precisely at this time when we are reconsidering our strategic partnership with africa, we should get the chance to prove what we can actually mean in terms of reconstituting a democratic state in the southern part of the african continent and helping it along both democratically and economically. zimbabwe has tremendous possibilities that it could use in its relationship with europe. we should seize all these opportunities, and maybe win back trust that was lost.
mr president, this time the european parliament can approach the debate on its future composition with complete serenity, at least as regards the first part of the proposal. the principle of degressive proportionality, as applied in this proposal, reflects the desire of the legislator to have an assembly that is both fair and respectful of the imperative of representation of the main political currents in all member states. the task has been made easier by the historic accident of brexit. at the same time, it is a unique opportunity to make progress in the establishment of a transnational list. i would like to wish the members of the council of the union the height of vision that will make this democratic breakthrough a great success. let us vote in favour of this text in order to convince those governments which, for one reason or another, but not necessarily for european reasons, still express reservations on this point.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we begin this debate tonight, we are still in shock at the murder of a second journalist in the european union in a few months. these cowardly and despicable murders reveal to us that within the european union there are people who are determined to radically challenge freedom of expression - one of the many public freedoms, one of the many fundamental rights we have. these murders show us how urgent it is to keep vigil for fundamental rights, for the right of expression, for our freedom for all, for the freedom of those who investigate and reveal facts which, of course, are not pleasant for everyone but which must be revealed to the general public because they have the right to know. mr president, in drawing up this report we have reached - and i am pleased to say so - an almost ecumenical agreement within our assembly - at least between its reasonable and constructive parties. we have covered all the ground that needed to be covered, with 44 major compromise amendments. however, we have concentrated on a few major themes. i proposed two at the beginning: the rule of law and the phenomenon of migration, in all its variations and also in its interaction with the rule of law, because the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights are at the basis of the european construction. a democratic community is not built on any other foundation than the predictability of the state, the reason for its action, the absence of arbitrariness and the guarantee of the rights that citizens have acquired over the centuries. the copenhagen criteria exist, but they have since become less and less, and we have discussed them again this afternoon in this house in the context of the activation of article 7 against poland. it is clear that we need instruments which will enable us in the future to achieve a european governance logic in which we all agree on what is acceptable and what is not, on what an election can and cannot do. it must not serve to change fundamentally the nature of a state. it must change the policies, policies that must be able to change again after the next election, without the nature of the state being called into question in between. in order to achieve this european logic of governance, this parliament has already suggested, by a resolution voted on 25 october 2016, the establishment of a european mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. we have asked the commission to adopt the ideas contained in this report. i think i understood from commissioner timmermans a while ago that he wants to tackle this task and i think that is commendable. as regards the migration phenomenon, mr president, we know that it will continue and that we had better get used to designing accompanying policies instead of pretending that we are going to stop migration. migration does not stop, it has never stopped in history. we need to invent legal pathways for migration, including in the absence of conflict. the reception of migrants, especially minors and children, needs to be improved, and there is a need to invest heavily in training, education and intercultural dialogue. i am passing on the other elements of the report, mr president, firstly because my time is running out and secondly because it is all in writing. i look forward to the debate we are about to have and will have the opportunity to return to it again in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me conclude on behalf of the commission by reiterating two basic principles which i mentioned in my opening speech. fundamental rights in the eu belong to all citizens, not only to parts of the societies, and we have a duty to guarantee this in all member states. we speak about equality in front of the law, and it applies to everybody. the second principle. the european commission is a very strong defender of the freedom of expression, and we show this very clearly in our activity and initiative in relation to online hate speech, where we work with the it sector in a very careful way and where we always emphasise that freedom of expression is untouchable unless there are calls for violence, which are prohibited by criminal law in all the member states. so these are the principles which i wanted to remind you of in this place. the last comment concerns what i heard here in on istanbul convention. i am convinced that we are not breaching the principle of subsidiarity. the convention has been signed by all member states. slovakia, if i’m not mistaken, signed the istanbul convention in 2011. now we are in the process of ratification, and yes, i confirm here that i invest a lot in convincing the member states to ratify this very useful piece of legislation. let me remind you of the horrifying statistics we have in the eu. every third woman has experienced physical violence in the last five years, and i ask all of you how big this statistic must be to start acting at the legislative level? the istanbul convention is a very important legislative contribution to enable the member states to investigate, prosecute and penalise the perpetrators of violence against women, and i want to emphasise that the convention can be an efficient instrument against such horrible phenomena as forced abortion, forced marriage and female genital mutilation, to mention some of the horrible forms of violence. however, it also addresses the traditional – and i use this word intentionally – forms of violence. tradition is a very important element in our society, but there are things which we should get rid of, and i am very much convinced that it is violence against women which we have to combat and get rid of in our societies. all actors have a role to play to renew our commitment to fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy, be it at national, european or international level, and we are fully committed to play ours.
the rapporteur. mr president, as it is getting late, i will not delay the work of the house any longer. i would like to thank once again the fictitious rapporteurs with whom i was able to work on this report and with whom it was possible to produce a joint work which i find altogether very presentable. i thank the commissioner for the convergent approach we have between the commission and the european parliament in this and many other areas. i would like to answer any member who seems concerned about the absence of certain subjects that it may be due to two factors: the guidelines of the rapporteur or his colleagues at the beginning or, also, the total absence of proposed amendments because, with the colleagues, i made it a point of honour to incorporate every major point of concern that would have been submitted by a member. if something is not in the text, it is because no one has proposed it. finally, i could still engage in a long and epic debate with mr gollnisch on european identity, but i will not in this way elevate the historical channel of the national front. so i just wanted to tell him and all his cronies that anything excessive is insignificant.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr loones for his annual report on the banking union. it has provided us with an excellent account of how much has so far been achieved since the last financial crisis and of what remains to be done in the future. as you know, the completion of the banking union is one of the commission’s highest priorities and we very much welcome the attention and engagement parliament shows in its annual report for 2017. major steps have been taken towards banking union and results have been achieved since the same debate took place last year, but we agree that we are not done yet. first, regarding the banking sector, good progress has been made in the negotiations on the november 2016 banking package, which will strengthen the prudential framework and increase banks’ ability to absorb losses in times of crisis – without the help of taxpayers’ money. eu banks are significantly stronger than they were before the crisis, thanks to their own efforts to adjust their business models and also thanks to the regulatory reforms we introduced and to better supervision. however, non-performing-loan ratios remain high in some member states. to address this, the commission – as announced in the first progress report on the reduction of non-performing loans in europe, in january 2018 – will adopt a comprehensive package tackling non-performing loans this spring. the package will focus on requiring banks to put aside sufficient means to cover losses if new loans become non-performing; tackling delays in debt recovery; opening up secondary markets; and, lastly, clarifying with a blueprint how eu countries can set up national asset-management companies if they so decide. bank exposure to sovereigns is another area where the commission shares parliament’s view: this problem has multiple implications, including the financial stability and international dimension. regarding financial technology (fintech), the commission fully agrees with the need to ensure a level playing field for all market participants, based on the ‘same activity, same rule’ principle. in line with parliament’s call, the commission will adopt on 7 march a communication on fintech, in the form of an action plan, which will also include a number of initiatives to strengthen the cyber resilience of the eu financial sector. coming to my second point, on the institutional setting of banking union, this is an area where more needs to be done. recent experience will help to improve further the practical application of the rules, as well as coordination among the commission, the single resolution board, the single supervisory mechanism and the european banking authority. overall, the two pillars of banking union (supervision and resolution) are working well and, as numbers demonstrate, have helped further to reduce risks in the banking sector. but for banking union to deliver its full potential it must be complete. for this reason, the commission welcomes the report’s call to complete the banking union with common deposit insurance arrangements, and we are committed to working with parliament and the council to advance rapidly on the european deposit insurance scheme. quick progress is also needed to build up a readily available common backstop for a single resolution fund, in order to increase its credibility. these are just some of the areas highlighted in your report, and we are looking forward to pursuing work in these areas with you.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mr sander loones and thank him and the fictitious rapporteurs for their good cooperation. there is no doubt that progress has been made: the european banking system is more robust than it was, but it would be an illusion to think that it is safe from the next crisis until the banking union is complete. the third pillar, which is essential, is not in place. the first application of the resolution regime raises many questions. it will be necessary to make it fully transparent and draw conclusions to improve it. and i am not talking about the undercapitalisation of some banks, bad credit, sovereign debt, insufficient risk-sharing and the need for better coordination between authorities, not to mention the challenges posed by cyberattacks, which require increased attention and significant investment in security.
madam president, 1%, 1.05%, 1.1% and 1.2% - the listing of these few ratios is not intended to introduce us to homeopathy or nanoscience, but it is the numbered options that reflect the maximum that some member states are willing to give to the budget of the european union. the multiannual financial framework is supposed to prepare the future of our continent, we want more border security, more internal security, to strengthen the cohesion of the economic and monetary union, more resilience to crises, more fight against inequalities, more investment to boost growth, make erasmus accessible to more young people, it is very good to want to but you also need to be able to. we know that commissioner oettinger has many qualities but he is not santa claus. who benefits from the refusal to equip the european union with the means it needs to meet the challenges i have just mentioned? the populists, of course. they want a return to 19th century europe. i would not like it to be said in 30 years' time that the decline of european states began around the years 2015-2025 because the political class at that time would not have been able to go beyond the so-called budgetary and other apothecary accounts. commissioner oettinger, our rapporteurs and the brave chairman of the committee on budgets, jean arthuis, are well aware of the current challenges and deserve to be supported with a little more conviction and fervour in the cause they are so talented at championing.
prime minister of portugal i will try to concentrate on three fundamental issues in order not to take up too much time. firstly, the great challenge facing the european union today is to ensure that hope overcomes the fears that undermine confidence in europe's future. in this battle, it is absolutely essential that we focus on concrete responses to the citizens, because either the citizens consider that in the european policies and the decisions we take, they are concretized and respond to their aspirations, or in fact we will exclusively feed those who are against europe, the populist discourse and those who have a protectionist vision of the future. for europe to be more effective, we must first consolidate what is the most important thing we have achieved and the foundation on which we can build our future: economic and monetary union. secondly, we must give the union the means to do what we ask it to do, and that means actually strengthening the union's budget. this means that we must have a vision that fosters convergence, because convergence is the key to the whole of the european union. the convergence has to be present in everything. it is true that we need a new industrial policy, and horizon 2020 or structured cooperation for defence is, incidentally, a good opportunity to develop this industrial policy. but this industrial policy must not contribute to exacerbating the asymmetries. it must also bear in mind this objective of convergence and involve us all in this joint effort. surely some of the economies are good competitors in submarine production. there are others that will certainly be excellent competitors in the production of technical textiles or footwear. if we can bring together the capacities of each, we will strengthen convergence and we will not have these new policies weakening cohesion and convergence. for this new europe, i do not believe we need an empire. we will not be china, we will not be russia, and i believe we do not wish to be either china or russia. each has its own story and our story is a story of nations. this history of nation states has proven, since the post-war period, that it has succeeded in building the most original and creative political creation that mankind has ever produced, which is the european union. this must be done with respect for identity, with the necessary means to make the union effective. the delay in responding to the 2008 crisis and the sovereign debt crisis in 2011 was not due to the fact that the commission has 28 commissioners. this delay was due to a deep political divide and our failure to realise in time that we had structural problems in the euro area that needed to be addressed. now that we have learned our lesson, we cannot waste any more time, and now that there is no crisis on the table at this moment, let us make the right decisions to prevent any new crisis from coming. what europe needs is not to close itself off from the world, nor to carry out an ethnic cleansing within europe. europe is a continent of diversity, and that diversity has been a factor of wealth. i believe it was mr weber who invoked vasco da gama's trip to india and how it benefited europe. i would even say that i must be the biggest beneficiary of this trip in this room, since, as an indian, i might not be here if vasco da gama had not gone to india. what has distinguished europe and given europe its strength is that we are indeed a community of values. it is a fundamental value, of course, which is that of tolerance, of the capacity to include, without multicultural relativism, because, of course, there are human rights which, being fundamental rights, are not subject to discussion, neither in the name of the place of origin nor in the name of religion. gender equality is an absolute value in itself and no religion or religious value can weaken the defence of gender equality in europe. (applause) but that does not mean that we should sacrifice these values, which are also the founding values of europe. finally, i would like to say to mr verhofstadt that we are not divided on the need for institutional changes. it tells us where we should start. what i am saying is this: if we start discussing institutional change, it divides us, it paralyses us and it prevents us from making the decisions that are essential. let's start with the essentials. can we advance defense with structured cooperation? let's move it along. can we move forward with strengthening fiscal capacity, creating fiscal capacity in the euro area? let's move it along. let's not start by arguing about whether we need a finance minister. let us start by discussing and putting into practice what is essential: having a budgetary capacity for the euro area. once we have the budgetary capacity of the euro area, then perhaps we will draw the obvious and necessary conclusion that we need a finance minister and we need greater control by the european parliament over the implementation of economic policy in the euro area as a whole. we do not start at the end, we start at the beginning, and the beginning must be to respond to and solve the problems of the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, we now know that the most convinced europeans live across the channel. it is rare to see so many europeans disappointed in having to leave the european union and it is all the more comforting to hear the speech you have just given. we know that the weak links in the european construction today are, unfortunately, the member states, which are allergic to the slightest dose of solidarity. the leaders of these states thrive on the difficulties - to use your words - and at the same time have the nerve to accuse europe of being unable to provide answers while holding back when it comes to giving europe the skills it needs to meet the expectations of its citizens. what can be done, in your view, to prevent this form of 'yes, i think i am being stupid' from being such as to block any revision of the treaties? will we wait until the so-called budgetary and institutional minorities join the ranks of those who want to move forward, or do you advocate a two-speed europe if this situation were to continue?
madam president, in a growing number of european countries it seems that if you are a journalist, if you are an investigator, if you risk getting too close to greedy, criminal interests, but above all to the private interests of certain powerful people, you live a dangerous life. we started last year what is like a series with daphne caruana galizia, who died because she was investigating. ján kuciak died, along with his partner, because he was investigating. i'm told that in poland, a journalist is still fighting for his life. he's not dead yet, but he may well be as a result of a cowardly attack that was perpetrated against him, because he was also investigating possible criminal, greedy, powerful interests. the privatisation of the state we are facing, where powerful mafia interests subjugate legitimate public authorities, is a scourge we must fight. we are witnessing the capture of states in europe, which has been proven to be on the rise on more than one occasion, and this is not a state of affairs that is tolerable in the 21st century, nor is the endless intimidation of journalists, the denigration of people doing their job. mr orbán, the prime minister of hungary, told us a few days ago that he knew that mr soros was behind the death of mr kuciak. can we go any lower? how far can we go in unacceptable political rhetoric that creates atmospheres in which people are dying and where every death like this is one too many? (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i do not feel that the problem we are dealing with here is primarily a problem of the existence or non-existence of a european agency. i am in favour of a european criminal police, a kind of european fbi. we will need it, much sooner, i think, than intelligence services or agencies, but here we have another problem, namely that the slovak state is structurally very likely complicit with mafia interests. there is no european or national police agency that can change this state of affairs and we must ensure that states become independent again in the sense of 'not being subject to mafia interests'.
madam president, imagine for a moment that i am a martian looking at the earth. i have a president juncker, who says: 'europe is the leader in green technologies and renewable energy'. and then i have a chinese president who says, "i am the leader of green technology, electric cars, renewable energy". so, what does the martian do? he's starting to calculate. europe does not even have 10 000 electric buses. china has 200,000. europe does not even have 200,000 charging points. china has 1.4 million. we are nowhere and we have a european commission that does not have the courage to propose strong infrastructure legislation and that suggests to the european citizens that with 800 million we are going to make a difference. i say to you as a martian: china is number one and we are ridiculous, and if we continue like this, we will be nonexistent in the field of green technology. it's a crying matter, it takes a whole new effort.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank parliament, in particular, the chair of the development committee (deve), linda mcavan, and the rapporteur enrique guerrero salom for the excellent collaboration over the past months concerning the mid-term review of the external financing instruments. i very much welcome this report as a valuable contribution to the commission’s preparatory work on the future external financing instruments. i fully share your conviction that we have to remain ambitious in the financing of eu external action after 2020. heading four has been stretched to the limits during this multiannual financial framework (mff). we have been facing unprecedented levels of crisis world-wide, from conflicts to natural and climate-related disasters, health epidemics, insecurity and massive displacement and migration. as the report rightly points out, we need to work harder to deliver on the international commitment of the european union and its member states to devote 0.7% of gross national income to official development assistance (oda) by 2030. the oda figures published a few days ago show that our collective, aggregate oda has gone down. even if we are still the world’s largest donor, we cannot accept such a downward trend. i agree that, overall, the current set of instruments has proven useful and strategically relevant, and enabled the european union to adapt to evolving situations and needs in strategic sectors and regions. however, we need to have the courage to re-examine the next generation of external instruments. our guiding policy framework with the 2030 agenda, the global strategy, the european neighbourhood policy and the european consensus on development as well as the global challenges to which they are responding are highly complex and intertwined. the current multitude of programmes does not facilitate the necessary multi-dimensional approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development. i am therefore happy that the report calls for greater coherence and simplification. indeed, we need to get rid of artificial boundaries within our current instruments to ensure the right synergies between different policies for different countries and regions. we must avoid working in silos, while preserving the focus on poverty eradication and on promoting european values. keeping a comprehensive approach towards our partners is the best way to serve our mutual interests. by streamlining existing instruments, development cooperation can take a truly integrated and innovative approach, both from a geographical and thematic point of view. the policy-driven nature of financing instruments will also be reinforced. a streamlined architecture can facilitate our interinstitutional dialogue as well, by truly looking at the bigger picture, rather than specific envelopes. having differentiated policies such as neighbourhood or development policy does not require having separate instruments. in this logical coherence, it should also make sense to integrate the european development fund into the eu budget. but i concur with the report that this should be done only if certain preconditions are met: the volume of funds, in particular for africa, should not decrease and important elements of flexibility, such as significant reserves and multiannuality should be preserved. on humanitarian aid, i also agree with the report’s key findings. humanitarian assistance should remain self-standing, taking account of the specific nature and principles of humanitarian assistance. we have been able to provide humanitarian aid rapidly and flexibly in most acute crises. this was possible, not least because of the principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. as the recent comprehensive evaluation shows, our instrument is fit for purpose. it is also important that eu humanitarian aid continues to have adequate access to an emergency reserve to deal with unforeseen needs. we are committed to making sure that, whenever possible, humanitarian aid works hand in hand with longer-term instruments as part of the nexus approach in building resilience.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, there are a few things that i want to say about this report and i’ll have to be brief. i’ll start with thanking the rapporteur, mr enrique guerrero, for his inclusive approach and for having been willing to take on board suggestions and particular preoccupations of colleagues from other political denominations. that’s always appreciated, and i believe we have come up with a good report. on the topics: one, we need more coherence, commissioner, you know that that is something that our external partners are demanding of us, that is something that external partners would wish for. we are confusing people with the diversity of the instruments that we have, and setting up another new instrument every year does not really help. more coherence is certainly going to be needed. we are not doing enough, i believe, on micro assistance. we have seen again and again and again on parliamentary missions lately and in the bigger picture that where true development could start, where people could take charge of their own destinies, there is no one to support them with eur 500 or eur 1000 in order to be able to do that. we have no instruments that foster that. it would fall well within the remit of the future development bank, as the report by enrique states, and such a development bank would have to have recourse to innovative financial instruments. finally, budget support will need to remain on the agenda and with greater funding than it has now. because the patronising attitude that we’ve had in the past has made us look second or third in line in terms of preference of many recipient states, and that effects the notional validity of the partnership was well. more budget support in the future will be unescapable.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and especially the rapporteur, mr denanot, for preparing this own-initiative report on a european strategy for the promotion of protein crops. the challenges and opportunities facing the european plant protein sector and its importance among eu institutions and stakeholders are well illustrated in this report. as we all know, plant proteins are essential for eu livestock farming as a vital component of animal feed and source of amino acids for livestock. moreover, plant proteins are now becoming increasingly popular in human food consumption. as highlighted in parliament’s report, the development of plant protein production in the european union will not only benefit farmers and producers of animal feed and provide food for consumers, but will also contribute to a wide range of environmental and climatic benefits, such as the ability to fix nitrogen from the atmosphere. in this context, the european parliament’s own-initiative report is a very welcome and constructive contribution to the commission’s preparations of an eu protein plan, scheduled for publication by the end of this year. this publication will be accompanied by a high-level eu conference on plant proteins in vienna this november during the austrian presidency of the council, and i want to acknowledge the interest which the forthcoming austrian presidency has shown in this important issue. the commission’s eu protein plan will aim to develop a viable and sustainable domestic protein supply mindful of the challenges we face. the eu is only 38% self-sufficient in its main source of feed proteins and only 5% self-sufficient for soya meal, which represent a very efficient and, therefore, important source of feed proteins. as such, we are hugely dependent on imports of soya, which have significant global consequences. an eu study in 2013 identified soya expansion as being responsible for 19% of global forest loss between 1990 and 2008, mainly in south america. there are a number of practical reasons which explain why this is such a complex issue to address. these include the agronomic conditions in europe, the economic profitability of these crops in europe, the competitiveness of the eu protein crops compared to imports and international wto commitments, which limit the level of specific eu support permissible for oilseed production. the reality is that there are no silver bullets to address this issue. the scope of the eu protein plan will therefore be broad, addressing all the different domestic sources of plant proteins in europe, as well as the different types of demand. within this broad framework, the european protein plan will concentrate on four areas which are also highlighted in mr denanot’s report. research and innovation in plant proteins with respect to yield improvements and better adaptability to eu conditions; the agronomic and environmental benefits of protein crops; the development of different supply and value chains for eu plant proteins and the market potential for eu plant proteins in different market segments. the european parliament’s report also refers to the importance of support from the common agricultural policy to protein crop cultivation. the common agricultural policy indeed provides a series of measures which directly or indirectly encourage plant protein production in the european union. the ongoing discussions about reforming the common agricultural policy will provide an opportunity to further confirm policy support for eu plant protein production. parliament’s report also highlights the importance of research work which will feature prominently in the commission’s plan. the commission looks forward to further cooperation with the european parliament in the development of this protein plan, which will ultimately benefit us all by making europe more self-sufficient in the provision of essential proteins.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would first like to thank the committee on development for entrusting me with the report on the debt sustainability of developing countries. this is a topical issue. the imf considers that eight african countries are currently over-indebted. in addition, eight other african countries are on the way to becoming such. this situation is of concern to us because it is a question of the means that can be used to achieve the sustainable development goals. first of all, borrowing is not in itself wrong. the problem is lending lightly. all borrowing must meet the criteria of relevance, efficiency and sustainability. the relevance criterion means that the costs of repaying the debt are justified only if the debt helps to finance investments that still have an effect after the last instalment has been paid. for example, if you build a school in 2020, it must be able to serve its intended purpose in 2040, when the last instalment of the loan is repaid. therefore, children must continue to attend this school, there must be teachers and the infrastructure must always meet the needs of the moment. the criterion of efficiency is fulfilled if the added value generated by this investment is real. finally, the sustainability criterion applies for obvious reasons: borrowing is not done to finance the short term but to invest in the future, in the medium and long term. this report goes further and aims to hold both borrowers and creditors to account. as far as creditors are concerned, not only institutional creditors but also others should, in my view, be bound to respect the democratic principle. in other words, the developing country that borrows must be duly authorized by its parliament to do so. who else but parliament can express the will of the people? if this is not the case, the creditor should not have the right to sue the defaulting country. therefore, the creditor would not have this right if the loan was not approved. it may seem hard, but what is the point of constantly reminding ourselves of our desire to uphold the democratic principle if we cannot include it in the conditionality of european development policy? the committee on development also recommends that the principles laid down by unctad on debt restructuring be respected. in the event of a country's default, for example, the right to human development must prevail over the creditor's right to recover his debt. we are no longer in the 1980s or 1990s, when it was decided to administer horse poisoning to countries that were unable to repay their loans. we have seen the results, especially in the countries affected by the ebola virus: those who could not invest in infrastructure, because of lack of budgetary means, were unable to counter the disease and, after three days, their health system was down. does this mean that people in developing countries who do not meet the conditions for borrowing would no longer be eligible for funding? no, there are other ways. i am thinking in particular of donations funded from official development assistance to support projects or programmes. i am thinking of the budgetary aid that the commission can give to developing countries. i am also thinking of innovative financing methods, in particular the financial transaction tax. finally, and i should have started there, let us emphasize that taxation in the borrowing countries is the first condition for ensuring sustainable financing. let's also talk about the 0.7%. if the european union, the commission and the member states combined, were to devote 0.7% to development, as it has repeatedly promised, we would have over 25 billion more to finance these programmes. let us not say, therefore, that it is a question of lack of funds. no, you can't! it is a question of financing in a different way. in conclusion, this report does not propose any measure which would cut off funds to developing countries. we have to borrow differently and borrow better.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i have been following the annual report on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality for several years now and i am finding it more and more pleasing, apart from the fact that this report is the last item to be discussed in plenary at 10.30 p.m. i would like to point out that these principles are not a call for inaction but a rule for the allocation of competences between the union and the member states. unless it has exclusive competence, the european union can only intervene if it is able to act more effectively than the member states at national or local level. similarly, the principle of proportionality provides that the means used by the union to achieve the objectives set by the treaties may not go beyond what is necessary. these principles have been adopted to ensure the effective functioning of the european union. they are also essential means of ensuring the link between the union and its citizens. they should not be used to block or fuel euroscepticism, quite the contrary. this report covers the years 2015 and 2016 and highlights the large number of existing tools, some of which were implemented in 2015. a wide range of tools make it possible to participate in the various stages of the european legislative procedure: impact studies, public consultations, the refit platform, the ipex platform, the regpex and connect internal platforms, dialogues through cosac and the committee of the regions, and the yellow card procedure. in addition, since 2014, national parliaments have shown an increased interest in european policy through the new instruments put in place, notably refit. in 2016, 65 opinions were received from national parliaments, a substantial increase compared to 2015, which is encouraging. i am therefore not in favour of the creation and development of new instruments without the full potential of existing ones being exploited. the procedure works when all the actors are interested in it. i therefore stress the pointlessness of adding instruments and procedures which would increase the bureaucratic burden and further slow down the legislative process. i think that together with the fictitious rapporteurs we have produced a balanced report which calls for the construction of an efficient union which respects differences and is attentive to citizens. i would like to thank my colleagues for their friendly and cooperative work. a final word on the timmermans task force. you are aware that president juncker set up a working group to reflect on subsidiarity, to which representatives of the national parliaments, the committee of the regions and the european parliament were invited. the european parliament's refusal to take part in it does not, in my view, express a lack of interest on the part of our parliament, but a call for respect for its status as co-legislator. meps are thus free to express their views on the results of the task force afterwards. however, this absence of the european parliament should in no way affect the european parliament's relations with cosac and the committee of the regions. i would also like to see our relations with the committee of the regions strengthened, and i have written to the president of parliament to that effect. the committee of the regions is an indispensable institution, providing a valuable link between the union and its regions. that is why i have stressed the need for closer links between european, national and regional institutions. only together, each at his or her own level, can we act and engage in policy in the interests of the well-being of our citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me conclude by reassuring all members that the commission will make sure that subsidiarity and proportionality remain at the heart of the european democratic process. and we will continue to engage with parliament, the council and national parliaments on this and other important issues.
i'm the reporter. madam president, this discussion ends on a high note. although there are nuances of interpretation, i think there is a great deal of convergence of views on the fact that subsidiarity and proportionality are important principles. i would also like to thank mr brok for pointing out that these are not the only principles of the functioning of the european union and that solidarity is a principle that also has its place in the european architecture. we must therefore continue to encourage national and regional parliaments to make full use of the existing instruments, and we must above all empower them to make constructive proposals for the functioning of our continent instead of blaming brussels for everything that is wrong in the world. i would of course ask everyone to vote in favour of this excellent report.
mr president, trust is a must. it takes years to build, but only seconds to lose. sadly, tech giants learned this lesson the hard way – the latest example being the cambridge analytica scandal. fortunately, we europeans decided on the right laws to bring back trust. who wants to be part of a global community where algorithms know what you are better than you, than your family, than your friends? where someone can spy on you anywhere – at work, at home on the streets? where your political preferences can be matched to the highest bidder? where you are a product being sold without your consent? nine in ten europeans want none of this, and that is exactly why we adopted the general data protection regulation – to put citizens back in control of their own data; to ensure a stronger enforcement and high fines for companies which do not comply; to set data protection standards worldwide. six years ago, lobbyists and national governments tried to stop the proposal i had put on the table for a general data protection regulation, and today they agree it is an indispensable piece of legislation: the internet was designed for the people by the people, and that is what it has to stay.
mr president, our colleague, mr louis michel, has already accustomed us to his fervent pleas for a europe that is humanistic, strong and generous. we can see from your speech, mr prime minister, and from this double commitment, that europe is in your genes. we need political actors of this calibre because europe is under threat. the worst threat at the moment, however, is the fact that several member states are moving away from the union's fundamental values, and are not or no longer applying certain aspects of european law. how, in your view, could this be remedied?
mr president, when france, a few years ago, for good reasons at the time, decided to reintroduce border controls, i remember that the 100 000 french citizens who had jobs in luxembourg because they did not have any at home and who, despite all that, voted for the front national because it must be good for border protection, spent three to four hours each morning and evening in their cars on their way to work. they were cured of this foolish, stupid wish to see the borders re-established for the good of us all. i heard the english-speaking colleague earlier. it seems to me that the british government is not at all in favour of reintroducing a hard border in ireland between the republic of ireland and northern ireland, because that would mean disaster, economic disaster for ireland and for the people living on both sides of that border. it is regrettable, mr president, and i say this with all due respect, that purely internal political motives in austria, bavaria, france and elsewhere justify the maintenance of something which should have been abolished decades ago, and abolished for good. i am glad that in front of schengen - a village in luxembourg for those who do not remember it - there is the german land of saarland, because the saar are still reasonable enough not to reintroduce borders. if it were bavaria, we would soon have a regional border guard for the needs of a politician's campaign who wants to be re-elected in september. this is not normal. we can no longer make the good functioning of one of the european union's great achievements dependent on the political whims of some who believe that security justifies every conceivable bad policy. it's wrong and it has to stop.
prime minister of luxembourg. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers at this first round of discussions. first observation, which i would like to emphasise: some say that europe is in a bad way, that it has already seen better times. yes, we have had more glorious times, and i have to tell you that brexit comes at a cost to all of us. as for wanting to condemn the voters for the choice they made - and the same is true for italy - that would be a second mistake on our part. the british people have chosen brexit. i regret it, but i have to respect that choice. the italians voted for what they voted for, it wasn't my preferred choice, but i have to respect it. to want to condemn this choice and say that they have made a mistake, that we want to teach them and that we, as heads of state or government, you as the european parliament or as the commission, must tell them what they have to do, would be to misunderstand them and push them even further to the extremes, when it is towards the centre that we should try to bring them back. yes, as luxembourg's prime minister - a post that has a longer life span than italy's, which is about to have its fourth prime minister in five years, after jean-claude juncker's 19 years in office - i think we simply have an obligation to show what works too. i have experienced brexit, i have experienced the situation with greece, i have experienced the refugee crisis, i have experienced situations for which, it is true, we have not been able to find solutions right away. someone said in this house, about the migrant and refugee crisis: yes, we need a common solution, we need a common immigration policy. we will not find a solution as long as we think that each one must do his individual calculation and solve this problem individually. we have to do it together. some say that europe is finished. let's stop playing the national siren and think we'll come up with a solution. we cannot do this at national level, we can only do this together. mr henkel mentioned that there had never been a war. today in ukraine we have a conflict situation which is still tense. if you think that ukraine is settled, you are mistaken. but the only document, the only text, the only commitment i have today is the one in the normandy format, drawn up by the european leaders around the table. they are the ones who got commitments from the ukrainian side and the russian side. without the european union, i don't know where ukraine would be today. so let us stop saying that without europe there would be no peace. back then, in 1945, who would have thought that 12 years later, in 1957, we would be sitting around a table and creating something or wanting to build something together? i would like to remind you that ukraine is right next to the european union and does not know peace. mr lamberts, let me first of all thank you for the tribute you paid to camille gira. it was a shock to all of us, it is true. he was secretary of state in my government and suffered a heart attack while he was presenting the most important text of his legislature, which was the protection of the environment. for those who do not know, the choice of the greens to replace camille gira was your neighbour, who will leave your assembly and with whom i am already looking forward to working in my government. you and others here have spoken of luxembourg as a tax haven. have you seen the legislation that has been drafted in the last four years? have you read the oecd reports? have you read the reports of the european commission? look at the texts opposite and you will see that luxembourg today is no longer on any blacklist of international institutions, that luxembourg is considered compliant, that we have done what we had to do and that the directives that had to be transposed in terms of transparency, exchange, collaboration have been transposed. for those who do not know, i would like to send them a note with all the texts and all the efforts that luxembourg has made. and let me also quote the latest studies carried out by the european commission: 'the commission takes note of the positive step taken by luxembourg'. in this respect, mention should be made of the forthcoming transposition of a directive which will, if necessary, make it possible to increase the effectiveness of the fight against aggressive tax planning structures, etc. if you think these are letter boxes, come and see the companies in luxembourg, especially those with more than 2 000 or 3 000 people working in the digital sector. mr president, i believe it was mr lamberts who said that the luxembourg finance minister was blocking certain progress. you don't block to block, believe me! the gafa is not a luxembourg issue, far from it! let us not forget that tomorrow britain will no longer be in the european union. it is very good, today, to do short-term calculations and say to yourself that yes, this is great, such a company leaves london and will settle in paris, frankfurt, berlin, amsterdam, dublin or luxembourg. we're very pleased. but i do not want britain tomorrow, or the united states today, or asia or hong kong to become safe havens for companies leaving or leaving europe, because europe applies taxes that do not exist elsewhere. let us therefore act at oecd level. we know that the oecd is working on this, so let's equip ourselves with the tools we want, but at the broadest possible level. no one mentioned the financial transaction tax. no one has brought up this subject today. if anyone wants this tax, let them enforce it. in luxembourg we are not against this tax, but let us apply it at international level. let us stop trying to penalize our own continent! europe is between asia and the united states, two blocs that are our direct competitors. so let us do something on our side for our attractiveness, for our industry, for our economy, for our finances. i would therefore like to say that luxembourg is in full agreement and everyone has said so here, whether it is jean-claude juncker or you, to impose the gafa. it is not acceptable that companies do not pay taxes. we are the first to say that they must pay for it, but let us try to prevent them from going to another part of our continent tomorrow to escape taxation and our country from losing jobs and tax revenues. mr weber spoke about the rule of law and freedom of the press. these are fundamental elements of our european union. if we consider freedom of the press or the rule of law to be incidental, what would that reduce europe to? just to finance? just to the economy? just free trade? in 1957, the basis of the european union, which i described to you earlier, was to bring people together, to bring them closer together, to have values to share. these values were not monetary, they were also human. i know that there are discussions at the european council level and you will certainly have some here concerning the structural funds. is it necessary to link the structural funds also in this respect? i just want to warn you. if we do it in one country only, its leader will say: 'i have no more erasmus grants, i have no more aid for farmers, brussels has decided.' is there a danger that we will provoke a reaction that is not the one we want? that is to say, the leader of this country will have even more facility, in his capital, to explain to his farmer and his student, to the one who, until then, benefited from european aid, that he will no longer have it because brussels has decided that he is not in line with what they, these brussels people, these people with whom he has nothing to do, have in mind, because this or that beneficiary does not fit into the scheme that brussels has imposed. i'm a proponent of other systems. when something doesn't work, it's because our rules aren't right. we now see that article 7 does not work because unanimity is needed. if there are two of them, there'll always be one to support the other. i think it would be better in this case to tell the politician who arrives in brussels that he will not have the right to vote at the next european council. or we must find rules that harm politicians, officials, so that they themselves say that, given their decisions, given the situation in their country, they should be punished, but not their own people directly, because we risk reinforcing anti-european sentiment among this population. as regards the rule of law, i know that the european commission has threatened to refer the matter to the general court and the court of justice. i hope that it will not come to that, and i trust frans timmermans to continue to explain to the countries concerned that the rule of law is something very important to us. a number of members spoke of a social europe. we do not talk enough about social europe. he's a liberal, that's what he says. we do not talk enough about social europe. one of the causes of brexit, one of the causes of the rise of certain anti-european parties, is that citizens feel that europe does not touch them. that is why we must explain today that through the directive on the posting of workers, through a number of points, we are trying to set up a more social europe. you know that president juncker is very committed to social europe. i am very pleased that in gothenburg we had a meeting with the european leaders to make progress on this issue. forgetting the social europe would be as serious as forgetting that we have a europe of values. we need a social europe as much as we need a europe of values, a democratic europe. someone also spoke earlier about foreign policy. europe must have a foreign policy if it is to maintain its place on the international scene. as a continent, it represents the most important economic force in the world. i feel like we have complexes. if a continent says something, we as a european continent are obliged to react. we're not anticipating. european foreign policy is indispensable if we are to make our voice heard on the international stage in this field. i think that we will have to go to majority voting. today, any country can block any progress. if we cannot agree, then it is not possible for 500 million citizens to be deprived of a common position because one country has decided to block. today we are caught in the middle. the greatest fear of our citizens is insecurity, it's iran, it's what's happening in syria, it's what's happening around us. if we ourselves cannot have a common position and say what we want to do, we have already lost any place we aspire to have in a debate on the stabilisation of international relations. as regards investment and euro area reform, we believe it is important that parliament plays a central role, particularly in the re-shaping of the euro area. but to say right now whether we need a euro-zone minister or not is the same as institutional questions, nobody has asked me about that. what matters now is to have a euro that works. mr henkel criticised the euro, but i think that without the euro our situation today would be more difficult. but we agree on one analysis, mr henkel. if italy is doing well economically, it is good for all of us. if italy is not doing well economically, it is not good for the country, but it is not good for any of us either. i would like to thank you for this first round of questions. once again, those who think they have before them a european who thinks everything is perfect, who lives in a dream or who imagines that everything is going to be fine are wrong. i come from a very diverse background. most of you don't know that. i have a russian grandmother who was orthodox, i have a polish grandfather who was jewish, i have a luxembourgish grandfather who was catholic and a french grandmother who was an atheist. today my husband is belgian and i am free to speak in front of you. without europe, i might not be.
mr president, mr prime minister, you are leading a country which is traditionally pro-european. luxembourg knows what we owe to the european union, peace, security and prosperity, and as a small country we need to be part of a larger whole to defend our values and interests in a globalised world. it is therefore logical that you should call for more unity and solidarity, and i support you in this call. solidarity is the bond of the european union. this is the price we can pay for reducing inequalities between countries, member states and regions. but i think we also need to make the words and the deeds coherent. solidarity should also be expressed in everyday matters other than migration. the member states, and therefore luxembourg, faced with a choice, must they not, if necessary, put european interests ahead of national interests?
mr president, i should like to say first of all that the luxembourg prime minister has shown himself to be very committed in his replies to the members of parliament. - thank you. - thank you. yes, luxembourg has always been the driving force behind the european union from its founding. yes, luxembourg has been a pioneer when it comes to the euro, when it comes to schengen. luxembourg has always been the indispensable link between german ideas and french demands. so i ask myself, is he still? because we're gonna need it to be. the prime minister has spoken a lot about the progress of the past - it is remarkable - but we also need concrete progress now. we have said in plenary: 'action, action, action'. so it's not about what we've done well in the past, but what we're going to do concretely in the future. i would like to hear from luxembourg - which has always put forward forward forward-looking ideas in the past - what it is proposing to reconcile contradictory proposals. luxembourg as a driving force is needed again today.
mr president, mr prime minister, you have rightly called for action by all the member states to move the european union forward. we are twenty-eight to reap the benefits of european integration, the citizens of the twenty-eight member states have benefited from the internal market, but we are only half a dozen member states to share the burden of welcoming refugees. however, many of us leave italy, greece or germany alone when it comes to respecting the commitments made by all member states under the geneva conventions on refugees. we are also far from unanimous when it comes to meeting the financing needs of our european union for the years ahead. this is a disturbing observation. nevertheless, we are 28 and we are putting up with an american president who is attacking all the achievements of multilateralism, common security, foreign trade and many international agreements. we cannot remain inaction, otherwise we will marginalise ourselves. i hope that on 30 march, the day after the united kingdom leaves the european union, the 27 heads of state or government will be able to lay the foundations for a project incorporating the values of solidarity which you have called for in your remarkable speech.
mr president, i fear that it must have been my potentially incendiary remarks earlier that led to a fire alarm – one of the most successful fire alarms ever, mr president, because i want to have it put on record that next time the house tries to organise one, it should at least make sure that the gates are not closed to people who do not have badges. had there been a fire this time, i would probably not be talking to you now, nor would you be here for me to talk to you. let’s try and do better next time! i was going to say that it is all very funny to talk about legitimate reasons for throwing passports around – which, in the good old days, were a sacred sovereign prerogative of member states to attribute, passports being the material reflection of citizenship. then came a time when we sold out, and we did so for the basest of reasons, notably for money. we call it ‘citizenship by investment’ but, please, what sort of investment is that? investment like the pilatus bank in valletta, whereby a sovereign country in the mediterranean turns itself into an azeri colony just in order to service a few corrupt azeri businessmen and the whole regime with it? that’s called investment? i’m sorry! in hungary, i suppose that in the good old days, when they were still running newspaper ads in order to sell their passports, the money had to be transferred into an offshore account that apparently belonged to the government. that tells you about the transparency and the legitimacy of the investment that was supposed to be behind it! there is no passport and no citizenship by investment. there is citizenship by identification, integration, merit, and belief in what we stand for as nations and as the european union. madam commissioner, i know that the commission has limited means of action in this regard, but please condemn the practice, as clearly and as unequivocally as this house does, because only then are we going to get the more reluctant member states to realise that what they are doing is wrong.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear colleagues, thank you so much for your reflections and remarks. i completely agree with the vast majority of your remarks and, above all, thank you for your commitment to taking action as soon and as far as possible. this is quite important. but let me repeat once again that recent natural disasters and emergencies have taught us two important lessons. firstly, the need for more european solidarity in practice: tangible solidarity. that means enhanced response capacity where the european union can add value. this is also quite important. secondly – many of you focused on this – without proper prevention and preparedness, member states will continue to suffer the consequences of natural disasters and emergencies. there is a clear need for more responsibility, and with my services and my colleagues here, we use this as a sort of slogan. solidarity comes with responsibility. i think we have to focus on this. self-reliance should not be taken for granted. we need unity in effort, and we need to be ready to act quickly and decisively. the european parliament now has a key role in the process of adopting the revised decision. i am happy to know that we are all working towards an ambitious solution. the european parliament is delivering today on its commitment to move fast and decisively towards more protection for european union citizens. i count on your continuous support and am looking forward to starting trilogues as soon as possible. i can assure you that the commission will do its best to facilitate the discussions to reach agreement with parliament and the council as soon as possible. my final point. i heard some misunderstandings, so i am ready, with elisabetta gardini, to have many personal meetings in order to clarify these misunderstandings and to explain to you in detail what the proposal is.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran), and particularly the rapporteur, mr ertug, for taking the initiative of drawing up this important report. i absolutely agree with you. odometer fraud is a long-lasting problem, and we need more effective solutions to fight it. it is also clear that we need to continue to work at all levels to protect our consumers and honest businesses from becoming victims of this fraud. let me pick up on a number of issues in the report that are of particular importance for our current and future work. first, on the roadworthiness aspect. i agree with you that the cross-border exchange of odometer data is a must to enhance the measures against odometer fraud. let me be very clear: we are ready to propose the necessary amendments to the relevant legislation as soon as possible. i am very pleased that your report also recognises the key role of member states when it comes to additional occasions to check the odometer data. indeed, the current roadworthiness regime has its limitations when providing means against odometer fraud. for example, the first test is four years after the first registration. more frequent checks are likely to reduce the possibility to cheat. however, going beyond regular inspections exceeds what is possible within the roadworthiness framework. the good example of belgium and the netherlands shows how important it is that member states use their competences to introduce additional measures. the car-pass system, for example, seems a good example that others may consider following. the roadworthiness legislation has been in application only for ten days as i speak, and it is the very first european legislation to introduce measures which can fight against odometer fraud. obviously, it is too early to evaluate the impact that this legislation has. on the second topic – the type approval aspect: eu legislation in force since 21 july 2017 includes already requirements for the manufacturer to effectively deter reprogramming of odometer readings. this has to be done by introducing systematic tamper-protection strategies and right-protection features. with the new developments on connected cars it will be even easier for manufacturers or independent operators to keep and provide information on odometer readings. while you can never entirely exclude the possibility of odometer tampering, the commission will explore amendments to the legal framework to further reduce this risk as part of the monitoring of the implementation of this legislation. the third topic: as regards the consumer protection aspect, odometer fraud or tampering is a problem for buyers of cars in general. this means companies, especially smes and also other businesses, such as insurers and car-hire operators. it is also a risk for a very large number of consumers. about 25% of consumers in the union bought a second-hand car in the last three years. in the european union, consumers are protected against criminal fraud by specific national laws, and odometer fraud is usually committed by criminal gangs. however, we know that it is very difficult to prevent such fraud, and when the car has changed hands, often with payment in cash, it is too late. consumers will most probably not get redress, because the vendor will have disappeared – even more in the case of cross-border transactions. on the other hand, when the car has been bought from a retailer, the consumer is protected by eu legislation on unfair commercial practices. however, it has to be enforced by the national consumer authorities. therefore, it is vitally important that these authorities regularly monitor the practices of economic operators in the second-hand car market. every two years the commission publishes a consumer market scoreboard, which shows that this market is one of the least performing for consumers. the last reported that we issued stressed the importance of enforcement and awareness-raising of consumers. the commission regularly reminds consumer authorities of odometer tampering, and the commission also funds the network of european consumer centres, and the centres regularly issue guidance on second-car buying and assisting consumers with cross-border problems in all member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad, commissioner, that you have recognised the problem, that is to say, you have described quite correctly that billions of dollars of damage is being caused to the economy. you have pointed out the importance and the fraud consumers are being cheated out of thousands of euros and road safety is very much at risk. these illegal schemes are rarely punished, and in three member states, tachograph fraud is not even considered illegal. you've recognized the problem, but i sense a little that there's no will on your part. i do not understand you, nor do many citizens and many members in this house. they say it is too early to evaluate the proposed measures. i would say that it is not enough. we have to concentrate on the belgian system, where every workshop visit, every tyre change, every intervention on the vehicle has to be recorded. belgium shows that the number of tachometer manipulations has decreased by 95%. we therefore call for the use of hardware solutions from the outset, but also for a legal framework which is urgently needed to ensure the exchange of data across borders. and finally, there must be a regular recording of each workshop visit. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the electronic toll booths.
prime minister of the netherlands. – mr president, i'll continue in english if that is okay, but of course with all respect for the interpreters. first of all, to the first vice-president of the european commission, thank you very much for your gracious remarks, dear frans. you made this point regarding moral hazard. that was exactly right, since there is a lack of trust which crept into the european union over the last ten years because of moral hazard. i was very happy that you made this point and we have to work on that. you also made a point regarding migration, and other speakers in this first round also made a point on migration. it is also crucial to come to an agreement at european council level. we are very much pushing to make that happen at the european council at the end of this month. but it is not easy, since, at the moment, there are still a lot of debates going on between the north and the south, as well as with the countries in the east. regarding this whole notion of solidarity, of burden sharing, and of making sure that everyone is involved and that we find an acceptable compromise, i’m not very optimistic at the moment that we will reach conclusions at the end of june. we need your help there, and the european parliament can push for this. mr bullmann also made this point in response to you on this issue. on the situation with the united states, this was also a point made by mr weber, guy verhofstadt and others. i was always raised with the absolute conviction that the transatlantic bonds between europe and the united states – anchored not only in a joint security imperative, in the fact that we share values across the atlantic ocean, and that we share the same type of history – make it crucial that together we keep working on the transatlantic bonds. it is not easy, but i cannot foresee us resolving any major crisis in the world without the united states. for our defence, it is crucial to keep the dialogue with the united states going, even if within that family relationship we have some serious quarrels at the moment. and, yes, frans, you can count on the netherlands where rule of law is concerned. i know that you personally, within the commission, are working very hard on this. ms keller you made a point about article 7. let me assure you that the netherlands and my government are squarely behind frans timmermans and the entire european commission on this issue. there can be no doubt, and i am happy that i know that the whole commission is behind it. mr weber, on the issue of the multiannual financial framework: yes, i agree that we have new priorities which we need to address. but at the same time – and this is also a point i would like to make to mr bullmann – we have to acknowledge that 70 % of the european budget at the moment is spent on the priorities of yesterday. why not think about what we can do in terms of making savings there to free money up for new priorities? mr bullmann, you made this analogy again with john wayne. however, when john wayne and his people were back in those days when that story played out, when the united states was working on pushing its frontiers westwards, there was no government to help them. there was no central system. it was the farmers themselves, making sure that, by putting their wagons in a circle, they could create safety. luckily, at the moment we have governments and we have collective security. absolutely, we need to work with our members, but considering this budget and what you need to do, we cannot just discuss new money; we also have to look at where we can find the money. i am simply against the 1.3 %. if you really want to make the parties at the extremes much bigger than they are today, keep on pushing for 1.3 %. it’s the best recipe. on pnr, i completely agree with mr weber. the legislation to implement pnr has been submitted to our parliament and is being discussed in our house. we have already set up our national organisation and notified the commission. it is not yet through parliament, but we are working on that. at the moment, i believe that 14 countries have implemented this legislation. half still have to come, and we are in the second half and working on that. on the military side, military mobility is one of the things the netherlands is pushing at the moment within nato and within the eu. we are very much behind the initiatives president macron is making to get a more effective basis to organise defence within the european union. at the same time, i would argue that we should not now push for new symbols like a european army. these are symbols. we have to make sure that we get things done in practice and that we get, in that sense, a satisfactory result for our citizens. i am not in favour of these symbols like the european army. i am very much in favour of working in the next five to ten years on practical things like, for example, military mobility. i know that i can count on your group on this important priority. on the issue of taxation, we acknowledge the importance of combating tax avoidance, both for the netherlands and at the eu level. taxation is an important issue in this house, but particularly in the parliaments of the member states. taxation is a key element of the political systems in our democracies, and in the treaty they are therefore part – and i believe rightly so – of the member states’ competencies. we are working at this moment on letterboxes and how to make sure that we take the necessary next steps in that regard. i was very happy to see that commissioner moscovici was very appreciative of the dutch initiative in that regard. this is also in reaction to ms keller and mr bullmann. it was mr peter van dalen and mr udo bullmann raising the issue of reform, and whether the netherlands are pushing reform within the eu. yes we are. we are pushing for radical reform. yes, we are working on new alliances within the eu. the fact that the uk is leaving means that we in the netherlands, which is the fifth—largest economy in the european union, have to work on how we are going to organise our relationships with other countries. of course, our relationships with germany and france will always be crucial. when i listened to president emmanuel macron’s speech in the sorbonne last september, i agreed with most of the points he made there. we have agreed to work together on issues like migration, the g5 sahel, external borders, and in particular on climate change and pushing for this 55 % co2 emissions target. at the same time, we are working with other countries to find a balance within the eu to make sure – with the uk leaving and therefore the power balance shifting – that we in the netherlands also try to work on new alliances. yes, indeed we are working closely together not only with the baltic states and the scandinavian countries, but also with austria, ireland, and spain, as well as with portugal on other issues; it can be bilateral, it can be multilateral. within the eu, that helps to achieve sensible decision—making. therefore, it is much more nuanced, in response to mr van dalen, than saying it is a counterbalance to france and germany. the moments they agree on a policy are very scarce. sometimes it is good that they can agree on issues, because they are the two biggest member states, but there is no automaticity that when they agree, things are pushed forward, and it is not an automaticity that they agree. in many cases, as we all know, they very much disagree, and that also helps the debate in those areas. ms keller, you also have to do something. yes, i have to work; i agree. the dutch government, together with france, has to work on this support for the 55%. but please don’t leave it to me. you have this big house here. we had the applause, so please help. we have to do this collectively. that’s exactly the plea i was making in my speech. i need the european parliament, because without your pressure – including in your member states – to push for that emissions target, we will never get there. mr de jong, of course we disagree on many issues, not on the dutch language, but on many other issues. but still, i would argue that you were bashing the free market. thanks to the free market, hundreds of millions of people in the last ten to fifteen years have been lifted out of poverty worldwide. thanks to the free market, let’s not forget that. (applause)on one thing we fully agree. i did not mention it in my speech, but the same pay for the same work in the same type of circumstances is at the core of the belief of the dutch government, and we will push for that. i know that collectively we are working to make that happen, including in the transportation sector. mr batten, you addressed brexit. i would like to remind you that the governor of the bank of england has calculated that the cost of the united kingdom leaving the european union is already gbp 900 per average british family. that is the cost that british families are already paying, and that will rise. (mixed heckling and applause from the floor)maybe not for you personally, but this is happening at the moment. what i found in the netherlands is that this fact, as well as the fact that it is hurting our collective security, is the best argument why the others need to work more closely together. so in that sense, thank you for that, but i am still very sombre and pessimistic about the fact that you are leaving the european union. finally, ms james, on brexit: let me assure you that the dutch government is squarely behind michel barnier and what he is doing as our negotiator in this process. can you help to make sure that we get more clarity from the british side as soon as possible, particularly on the issue of the irish border? i believe that it is crucial to move and push that subject, which is important for all of us, forward. (applause)
mr president, thank you very much. yes, i am leaving for the luxembourgish government. when guy verhofstadt says that we need a new golden age, i think he is right, but i think the golden age for a lot of europeans was before margaret thatcher and neoliberalism. it was also before ten years of – i think for a lot of europeans – brutal austerity politics. it was surely also before this kind of tax competition. so when i go back to luxembourg next week, mr rutte, i think i have the same job to do in my government as you. i do not think we can leave taxation policy in unanimity. we need at least to take energy and environment taxation out of unanimity, as well as corporate taxation and probably also taxation for the very wealthy, because otherwise we are undermining solidarity in europe. colleagues, if you want to give me a big gift, we can build on your 55% climate. today and next week we will be finalising, hopefully, the efficiency legislation, the renewables legislation and the energy and climate framework legislation. so what should be the target for 2030? 33, 33, 55: isn’t that a good rhetoric? so that’s where we have to get today and then, in addition, we need a vision. society needs a vision, and this vision is net zero in 2050, and that is, hopefully, also where you can help me next week when we close it. thanks a lot for these almost two decades of working together. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am grateful for the question, which gives us the opportunity to discuss this very important topic. acp-eu relations after 2020 have been high on the agenda of all the presidencies in the past four years and the bulgarian presidency has had the privilege of taking the lead at this crucial moment. the cotonou agreement set a clear deadline for the start of the negotiations between the two parties and the presidency spared no efforts to finalise the eu preparation process so that negotiations can open before the summer break. our relations with the acp countries are at an important juncture. we have all witnessed the significant changes since the signing of the cotonou agreement. the world, the european union and the acp themselves are no longer the same. our own reality has become much more complex. the european union has 13 member states more than in 2000 and the acp countries have also developed in various ways. cooperation and interdependence at global level have gained even more importance in recent years, and relying on alliances is a key element of the european union vision of multilateral values and principles on the international stage. the council took the upcoming negotiations with the acp as a clear opportunity to strive for a new framework that responds most effectively to these new challenges. i am happy to note that the european parliament has shared this approach since the beginning. there was also a convergence of views from early on with the acp side that the new framework needs to be adapted to the new reality so that we can address global challenges more efficiently. the 2030 sustainable development agenda will be the backbone of the new acp-eu relationship. the eu position is therefore embedded in the european consensus on development and the new eu global strategy. the council is in the very final stage of an extremely intense discussion process to agree the negotiating mandate. its slant is commensurate with the importance we give to our future relations with the acp states. with only one outstanding issue, by far the major part of the negotiating mandate is agreed. the presidency is confident that the last outstanding issue can be resolved in the coming days so that the negotiations with the acp side can be opened shortly. the vision of the european union member states is clear. we want to bring about a major change. our aim is to leave behind the limitations of the donor-recipient relationship for good, and to open a new chapter with a bond between equal partners. development, while an important part of our relations, should become one of the many areas of the complex, more political architecture. the acp group has great aspirations and we are convinced that the two parties together can become a driving force on important global issues. let me give you an example: in the area of climate change, our joint efforts have been exceptionally fruitful. the acp-eu council of ministers adopted the acp-eu joint declaration on climate change on 1 june, ahead of the upcoming conference in december. with poland taking over the chairmanship of the pre-cop from fiji, this allows us to maintain joint acp-eu efforts over two terms of office and to steer our common agenda further ahead. this successful example needs to be replicated in other areas of global importance. on the eu side, we are convinced that we can do it, and are putting all our energy into achieving this. the acp-eu architecture is very complex and the different levels need to be readjusted to our new reality. the situation on the ground differs between the regions and countries, and regional and local players are gaining more and more importance. the eu intends to respond to this by shifting the centre of gravity and proposing tailor-made, action-orientated regional partnerships. we need to act at the most appropriate level, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, and to enhance the efficiency of the acp-eu partnership. our ambition is to agree on a more political framework with the acp side. the new framework is intended to encompass all relevant matters of joint interest, such as human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, human development, sustainable and inclusive growth, peace, security and justice, as well as mobility and migration. it includes a strong commitment to the principle of leaving no one behind, which is not at all in contradiction with the objective of a modernised political partnership that goes beyond the traditional development-aid approach. it’s quite the opposite. only a comprehensive political partnership will put us in a position to build peaceful, well-governed and prosperous states and societies by accelerating progress towards the attainment of the sustainable development goals and thus to eradicate poverty and tackle discrimination and inequality. i would like to thank the honourable members for parliament’s valuable input and i count on your continued support as we pursue this important work.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank parliament and, in particular, linda mcavan, chair of the committee on development, and honourable members wenta and neuser for their excellent work on this important matter. i welcome your resolution and the question on the upcoming negotiations of the partnership agreement between the european union and the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. your position on the way forward and that of the commission are broadly aligned. we share the conviction that we need a legally binding agreement that is based on the essential elements of our existing partnership, namely respect for human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. they are all part of the acquis and must be strengthened in the new agreement. i also agree with your call to preserve a strong acp identity. together, the european union and acp countries represent more than half of the un membership. such an alliance should be further exploited. keeping the framework with 79 countries is fully compatible with having a tailored and strengthened approach to cooperation with the main regions. africa will remain very much in focus in the years to come. the future eu-africa pillar should build on the existing joint africa-european strategy and use its institutional set-up. at the same time, the importance of our caribbean and pacific partners will also be confirmed. the institutional and political architecture of the new eu-acp partnership agreement will be key to this. each region should have a distinct governance and a focus on regionally relevant priorities for dialogue and cooperation. political dialogue must be an integral part of the new partnership at all levels, including the acp-wide level, the continental, regional and national levels, through the format most appropriate to the issues discussed. i also agree with your insistence that a core principle of the new partnership agreement should be a multi-stakeholder approach to dialogue and cooperation. let me also reassure you that the new partnership will fully confirm the commitment to implement the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals. eradicating poverty and leaving no one behind will remain core aspects of our relationship with the acp countries, which will cover all topics on which there are mutual interests. i also agree with you that the role of parliaments should be reinforced. regional parliaments, in particular, should be stronger, matching the increased prominence of eu-africa, eu-caribbean and eu-pacific regional councils in the future acp-eu agreement. as regards the rhythm of meetings, the commission has proposed that the acp-eu council should be convened on an ad hoc basis. the joint parliamentary assembly should work closely with the acp council of ministers, according to those same principles. lastly, concerning publication of the negotiating directives, the commission has suggested that the council publish the final eu negotiating directive. it is ultimately up to council itself to decide what it considers the most appropriate course to follow. our counterparts in the acp group adopted their negotiating mandate a few days ago at the acp ministerial council in lomé. now it’s up to the council of the european union to adopt ours. i look forward to the debate on this important topic.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, given that time is running out, i would like to say three things in particular. firstly, if there is a reason to maintain the eu/acp framework as we know it today, it would be for strategic reasons, because between the two blocs - if i may say so - we represent a majority of un member states, and i think that at the present time and in view of the other factors present, particularly in the countries benefiting from development cooperation, it might be worthwhile to forcefully remind these countries who are our partners that the attitude towards europe would logically be an attitude of privileged partnership. secondly, i would like us not to get lost in the flourishes. the involvement of civil society and all that is very good, but in the end, what matters is that particularly in the african part of the partnership, we have stable, functioning states with which a partnership for development makes sense. i cannot develop anything, for example, in the central african republic as long as the state does not exist, and it is not civil society alone that will help me; unfortunately, i would need troops, troops that we have refused, weapons that we have refused to the central african government. finally, as regards africa, there is a dichotomy that we must resolve. the pan-african parliament covers the whole continent and we will have to determine how to integrate our particular relationship with africa into the overall relationship with the acp region. the north of africa is not necessarily a problem, but an element that has been absent until now and which must be integrated in some way or another, which leads me to believe that in the future the emphasis will in any case have to be placed on a strategic relationship with the whole of africa.
madam president, last week, on the occasion of the european development days, i had the opportunity to meet the guinean minister for foreign affairs, who told me that he would be the future chief negotiator for the acp and that the acp group had already adopted his mandate. then we had a discussion amongst several of us about the reasons that are blocking the adoption of a mandate in the european union and i said that we could ask the commission who it is. we rarely get an answer because the commission is not a fan of blaming and shaming. that is why i am asking you, the commission representative, whether the following states agree with the mandate as you have proposed, namely the united kingdom, ireland, denmark, sweden, finland, estonia, latvia, lithuania, the netherlands, belgium, luxembourg, france, spain, malta, cyprus, greece, italy, bulgaria, romania, croatia, slovenia, austria, germany, poland, the czech republic, slovakia and portugal. you don't seem to contradict me, so i'm assuming that hungary is blocking these negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, with all due respect to mrs arena, i cannot agree with her conclusions. the european parliament had entrusted me with a report on the ebola crisis at the beginning of this parliamentary term. in 2014, i presented my findings, drawing attention to the gaps in detection, the late attention to the phenomenon and the late reaction of the world health organization. we had, among other things, demanded that research be carried out on a vaccine for production purposes. the recommendation was followed up. that's why this outbreak hasn't been as big as it was in liberia, guinea and sierra leone, but the discussion is still relevant and i'll tell you why. if we widen the debate, we may lose sight of an important point. i think we have to assess what has been done and i think we can take credit for having had an influence on the commission and on the global health institutions. if the epidemic has not happened, that is fine, but that is no reason to exclude it from our discussion. just because something no longer fits in the 8 o'clock news does not mean that we should ban it from our speech. that is why i would like to keep the item on the agenda as proposed.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to say to the members of this parliament and the rapporteur mr assis that this has been a very useful exchange and i thank all the members for their interventions. let me reiterate the high importance that the european union attaches to the rights and well-being of indigenous peoples – their children, their women and their men – and to stopping the practice of land grabbing. the commission cooperates with the international labour organization on the promotion of convention 169 and of indigenous peoples’ rights in external relations, and we will also further reflect, as i said in my introduction, on the call for the commitment to launch an action plan on responsible business conduct. support for indigenous peoples’ rights is integral to the european union’s human rights policies and today’s discussion on this important, highly complex and pertinent report gives full evidence that this has to stay that way.
the rapporteur. madam president, i have the honour to present to this house a report entitled towards an external strategy of the union to combat early and forced marriages next steps. the problem we are discussing today concerns a very large number of people. more than 700 million people worldwide are affected by this problem. it is a question of girls and boys, but above all of young girls who are victims of a practice which is absolutely inhuman and reprehensible. the european parliament has so far spared no effort to condemn these practices. in sudan, for example, the age of consent is 10 years. from the age of 10, girls who are forced into marriage cannot resist and this leads to intolerable situations. the belgian daily le soir recently reported the extremely sad story of a girl who was forced into marriage. what is the role of the european parliament in all this? we have, as i said, iteratively thematized this problem. it is not the number of observations that is missing. all has been said, but perhaps not yet by everyone. what we need to do is define a strategy, an approach to move the lines in this area. but to develop a strategy, you need to set a course. so firstly, we need to have a clear vision of the objectives and secondly, we need to define the path to achieve them. it is therefore necessary to agree on appropriate measures to be taken to combat this scourge. the objectives are as follows: we want to raise the age of marriage to 18, not just in one or two countries or in the european union, but all over the world. it is a universal standard. it has been enshrined in many international texts, it has been enshrined in many conventions that have already been ratified or are in the process of being ratified. the minimum age for marriage should be made a legal obligation and this legal obligation becomes an obligation of result. we must adopt a policy of results. it is not enough to have a prohibition on marriage before the age of 18 in the law, but it is necessary to make this obligation a reality. now let's talk about the means. in countries with extreme poverty, education is often the poor relative of public policies. the commission and the european external action service should address these issues in a political dialogue. the commission and, of course, the member states, which provide the bulk of the funds for development aid policy. support should be given to institutional actors such as unicef and unfpa (united nations population fund) which have considerable experience and expertise in this area. i will also ask the commission to make the fight against early and forced marriages a condition of the agreement. let's also talk about credibility. we must ensure that all the member states of the european union also set this standard of marriage at 18. we ask the commission - and this is also a request from our committee and from the report i have the honour to present to you - to devote one of the next years to this issue by declaring a european year against forced and early marriage. finally, it is important to fill the gaps created by the global gag rule. i know that the commission is on the right track and can count on our full support. in conclusion, we need a strong and determined european union, strong partner states, no skimping on resources, setting a course and, at the latest, achieving very encouraging and tangible results by 2030, the year in which the sustainable development goals should be achieved.
member of the commission. – madam president, from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using european diplomatic power, and all european instruments to their full potential, to protect girls from early and forced marriage. we now have a unique opportunity with agenda 2030 for sustainable development and its specific target 5.3 on child marriage. to succeed and meet the 2030 agenda target, we need a stronger partnership, we need more and better laws, more action plans, budget and accountability mechanisms and more data collection. we also need to see more comprehensive approaches, addressing all the various patterns behind child marriage. we need, too, more communication of positive stories on what works and also on what does not work. we see great potential in a european year dedicated to the fight against child, early and forced marriages, and we will ask our services to evaluate this idea. what is absolutely necessary and clear is that we need more funding. an urgent scaling-up is required as current investments are not enough. lastly, we need more long-term commitment. we are talking here about the devastating consequences of child marriage on the lifetime of girls and on society. let me thank the honourable members for this useful exchange and specifically the rapporteur for his good report.
the rapporteur. madam president, first of all, i am extremely satisfied with the quality of this discussion, as has just been rightly emphasized by the commissioner, whom i thank for her absolutely relevant and very appropriate remarks and comments. it is a sign of the commission's willingness to take this problem seriously and we have taken care to give this problem a political impetus. secondly, the member states of the european union must set an example. they must register the authorisation to marry at 18 in their legislation. this is a result obligation, and no mitigating circumstances can be found to circumvent this obligation. moreover, the fact that a criminal practice is entrenched and repeated year after year, from generation to generation, does not justify its continuation. here too, there are no extenuating circumstances to excuse or justify the perpetuation of a practice that is absolutely despicable and criminal. it is not the rootedness of such a practice in religion or cultural tradition that would justify it, because in the end one should accept cannibalism on the grounds that this practice too has been rooted in certain traditions. so let us be absolutely clear, so that there is no misunderstanding about this, we as the european union, as the member states of the european union, must be absolutely determined to set a good example and make this a conditionality in our external relations. let no one tell us that this prohibition is a matter for a court or a set of behaviour of western countries. the universal convention on human rights is universal. all legislation on the protection of children's rights is universal. so i think we need to act on a global scale. since the commission is making a point of wanting to influence the rest of the world, i think we cannot ignore this point. finally, i would have liked to see the commission take a position on our request to devote one of the next years to this issue. i know that we are in competition with others, but given the scale of the problem and the additional scale it is likely to take in the future, given the strong population growth in some countries, i believe that declaring a european year against forced marriage and child marriage would be quite in line with our ambitions.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. as rapporteur on the employment committee, i was in the majority opinion that there was no need for further flexibility. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have flexible working hours, we have enough exceptions, and therefore we could leave it at that. i am therefore glad that we have the opportunity to put the proposals forward again as the employment committee. i also thank the coordinator of the tran committee for finding various compromises. on posting: i believe that drivers are naturally part of the functioning of the internal market and that it is essential that they be recognised as posted workers. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and why should we legalize social dumping in this sector in particular?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i think we are all going to say pretty much the same thing about the ebola crisis. even if it's redundant, you have to say it. i believe that our assembly should be commended for having alerted the authorities of who, the commission and our member states in time in 2014 to the need to act quickly. it's been done. we've learned from it. if we were slow to do so then, today we have reacted in time. if an event is not mentioned in the 8 o'clock news, it does not mean that we have been ineffective, on the contrary. the fact that this epidemic is not as big as sierra leone, liberia and guinea were four years ago is the result of our efforts. so let's take pride in what we've accomplished and address the underlying causes. the direct causes have been addressed, the underlying causes are those of extreme poverty. i fully agree with what mrs arena said, i believe that the situation in the congo as she has just described it is very relevant, and we will need to have a specific discussion on this topic in another debate. we should also thank the commission for doing everything possible to keep this epidemic under control. so i thank the commissioner for tackling these causes, and i will also ask his colleague mr mimica to do everything possible to ensure that the underlying causes of this epidemic are tackled. so health infrastructure needs to be improved, not just in congo, but everywhere that hasn't been improved yet because, let's remember, back then in sierra leone, the whole health system collapsed in less than a week. this time it was not the case, because we learned from it. so let us be proud of what we have accomplished.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their contributions. we had a fruitful exchange of views. i once again realise that we all share the same concerns, not only on the ebola outbreak, but also about the political crisis in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). this is why you remember our efforts in order to proceed with this pledging conference. the european union and i were co-chairing in order to make this pledging conference for the drc a reality, regardless of the participation of the congolese government. the european union remains very involved in all aspects of the situation on the ground in the drc. at the same time, because the current discussions about ebola, ebola is a virus we cannot afford to underestimate, and we also agree that we cannot be complacent. let me repeat once again that we will continue to stand by the people of the drc until this outbreak is over. this is my personal commitment as ebola coordinator. i would like to assure you that we are already looking at what we can learn from this experience, and how we can improve. prevention, preparedness and response, including research, are all essential elements in tackling this, and any other, outbreak. we know that ebola might strike again in africa. as you said, the health-care systems are, unfortunately, so weak. and this is why, under the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership, the european union has put in place two large networks of preparedness research. among them there are 30 african partners covering the whole region of sub-saharan africa. these networks are building up the capacity of our african partners to better respond to outbreaks such as ebola or other emerging diseases. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all who worked together to contain ebola, all who cooperated and coordinated in order to respond more effectively and more efficiently to this latest outbreak on the ground. the first responders and the volunteers, the medical personnel and the experts. but also our hard workers in the commission services and other eu institutions and our member states. all of them determined to help the people of drc in this time of need. i want also to underline the good and effective cooperation we had with the world health organisation on the ground, but also at the institutional level. finally, i want to repeat that we are not letting our guard down. we will continue to monitor closely the situation 24/7. let us always remember that health emergencies have no borders. no one can face such challenges alone. only together can we better assist affected populations and protect our citizens, eu citizens. cooperation and coordination are preconditions for any effective response. i would like to clarify something about our efforts regarding vaccines. the commission is funding ebola vaccine development to the tune of over eur 160 million. the eu has provided funding for the vaccine which is now being deployed in the drc. a second vaccine, which is currently being assessed by who, has also received eu funding. so the european union and global partners are assessing where new research funding is needed for diagnostic treatments and vaccines, as well as ways to better communicate with affected communities and stakeholders to organise the response. i would like to say this as an answer, because i strongly believe that it is better to clarify some things about our efforts in this very demanding research field.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, mr goerens said ‘we all say the same thing’. nevertheless, or on the contrary, because of this consensus, i would like to thank you for todays’ exchange of views and also for the applause and the congratulations, namely that we learned our lessons and sometimes this is necessary and also pleasant for all the participating institutions, especially for the member states and the commission. i am also with ms arena when she says it is clear that the topic remains of crucial importance to both africa and the eu. moreover, i fully second what was said during the debate, that many congolese people have great needs in many regards and that we have to monitor the situation also with regard to the human rights situation, which is quite challenging. i would also like to stress once more that member states have supported the world health organisation (wto)-led response and we quick to contribute to the emergency response plan so that it was fully funded by 29 may. as a consequence, the virus didn’t spread to europe because it was possible to prevent it from spreading, even within the democratic republic of congo (drc). not a single suspect case has been reported in the capital, kinshasa. as we take over the baton, the austrian presidency will ensure continued monitoring of the development of the situation in the drc. we will provide member states with all the information they need to step up their response as necessary, in close coordination with the commission, to make sure that the eu as a whole will remain at the forefront of combating this dangerous disease and prevent another ebola epidemic.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank ms sargentini and say that i have taken note of her advice. there are not many of us here tonight, but what we say and have to discuss tonight is very important and i would like to express my thanks to all colleagues who have brought this issue to the surface. i would like to tell you that the focus of all our actions at eu level with the member states is, and has always been, to disrupt the criminal networks that make significant profits out of the smuggling of migrants to and within europe. our actions have been successful so far, although we shall not reduce our efforts until we destroy their business model entirely. thanks to our coordinated work and also to the eu-turkey statement, the business of the smugglers on the turkish coast has already significantly decreased. with the support of europol, many migrant smuggling networks have been dismantled. these are the kinds of results that we aiming for. we do not want in any way to prosecute citizens and organisations that provide genuine assistance to those in it. criminalisation of genuine humanitarian assistance should be avoided and, let us be clear, eu legislation on the facilitation of unauthorised entry, transit and residence does not require member states to do so. on the contrary, it provides for the possibility to exempt genuine humanitarian assistance from criminalisation under national law and so far, eight member states have provided some sort of explicit exemption. the commission understands parliament’s concerns about how the eu legislative framework might impact citizens providing humanitarian assistance. so we take note of your request for guidelines to be issued on this delicate matter. the commission has done an evaluation of the facilitators package that was published last year. we consider that there is not sufficient evidence about the need to revise the legislation at this point in time. however, we acknowledge the perceived risk of criminalisation of humanitarian assistance as one of the main areas in need of improvement. that is why we have started to engage with civil society representatives and the fundamental rights agency. a first dedicated meeting took place in may, in brussels, with the relevant stakeholders and agencies. discussions on this issue also took place with eurojust and national prosecutors at the end of may. we are expecting feedback from the participants, and we will continue this process. our objective is to create and maintain an ongoing dialogue and exchange with interested stakeholders. we want to gather evidence and foster a dialogue on the implementation of the facilitators package precisely to avoid criminalisation of humanitarian assistance. such an exercise does not preclude other forms of reach—out or initiatives at a later stage should the need arise. i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, let us be clear, it is not just a question of preventing humanitarian operations from being penalised or criminalised. it is also, in my humble opinion, a matter of ensuring that the passage of illegal migrants is not facilitated under the guise of humanitarian action, not because there are too many of them, but above all because this is a way of contributing to the sinister purpose of human traffickers. there is reason to fear that a number of operators who are currently in the mediterranean are there for this very reason, and that is a problem for me. i would like to see this done even inadvertently, but in the end this is facilitating a trade which i believe we have a moral duty, an obligation, to eradicate in the name of human dignity. and so it is really necessary to establish clear guidelines in all respects. what can be considered unacceptable, illegal aid and what is clear about humanitarian action? in my view, for an action to be qualified as humanitarian, it must be carried out under the supervision, control and, probably, instructions of the official authorities responsible for such operations. we have seen in the mediterranean recently an action almost sovereignly devised by certain captains who believe that they are not only empowered but also authorized to act where no one has sent them, when others would also be there. that does not help, commissioner, and it does not help to give credibility to these operations. i think we should make sure that everyone is in their place and stays in their place.
mr president, i say to the vice-president / high representative that i am not absolutely certain when russia bullied armenia out of the negotiations for a deep and comprehensive free trade area that we were engaged in. but relatively soon afterwards they came back into this agreement negotiation format, relatively shortly afterwards in political terms, we were able to conclude this agreement with them. i am happy that we now have it because we now need it. we need it more than ever because we are confronted with a new armenian government that is determined to settle down to the task, and the task is daunting. all the things that we can do for this country now need to be done better than they used to be done in the past, and that also had to do with corrupt governmental practices and the impossibility of channelling eu funds – which were always there abundantly – to where they were most desperately needed. all of this now needs to be done, and i would like to reiterate something that has been said already, because i know from the prime minister and other members of the new armenian government that this is what they are really looking forward to. we need to try and make headway on the visa liberalisation front. this is also what the armenian people would expect.
mr president, in addressing the prime minister i would like to say to him that you, mr prime minister, are leading a great nation and you are leading a great people and they deserve nothing more and nothing less than a government which respects the democratic institutions for the sake of its own citizens. so why on earth are you dismantling your independent justice? why don’t you listen to the wise men and women of the venice commission, who expressed their deep concerns? do you still respect the european court of justice? you have a responsibility for your country and for your people so, for god’s sake, don’t destroy the democratic basis on which your country is built, and give us back poland as a reliable, constructive and influential member of the european family. you need it and we need it. (applause)
mr president, i would say to the prime minister: it’s fun to talk about european dreams and not participate in european solidarity, isn’t it? you say you would not want to take 6 000 refugees – that’s not a lot for a country of 40 million. you pretend to be a great country, you are a great country, and you would easily be able to accommodate them. yet at the same time you talk to us about a marshall plan for africa, when poland is a country which has no development ministry, no development agency and invests 0.1% of its gni in official development assistance. i don’t think it makes a lot of sense, then, to talk about the marshall plan for africa. but let’s talk about poland for a minute. you said we should listen to citizens and to their concerns. i saw tens of thousands of poles this morning freeing the way for the president of the polish supreme court, małgorzata gersdorf, to be able to go back to work and fulfil her constitutional terms of office. it is your government that wants to deprive that courageous lady, and the people who were protecting her on her way to work, of their european endeavour, from being part of european normalcy. that is not a european dream, prime minister, that isn’t a dream for a country which deserves the right one.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i am indeed going to speak to you about the participation and the right to vote of people with disabilities. according to the un convention, disabled persons are people who have a long-term impairment in physical, psychological, cognitive, mental or sensory terms. the possibility of participating in political life is at the heart of what defines a democratic europe. but too often, legal and administrative barriers prevent people with disabilities from accessing information. in fact, one in six people in the european union has a disability. as a result, they are prevented from taking an active part in society. i would like to highlight some of the elements that encourage participation by all citizens. it is of course necessary to ensure accessibility to the polling station, i.e. to provide ramps, lifts and, if necessary, escorts. but before that, we must make political programmes accessible to all, i.e. translate them into braille for the visually impaired, into simplified language with pictograms for people with cognitive impairments and, in a speech, systematically ensure a sign language translation for the hearing impaired. i am new here and i hope there is one. another problem is that of guardianship. in principle, people under guardianship do not have the right to vote and i would like to quote josef schovanec, autistic person, writer and philosopher: "it is completely abnormal to have to go to court to have the right to put a ballot in the ballot box when we see the vote of some people who are supposed to be sane". the 'design for all' must also apply to the european elections. in other words, we must ensure that politics is accessible and attractive to all. it also means that you have to go to meet all the voters, and not wait for them to come to you. a final important aspect of the empowerment movement for people with disabilities is to encourage them to engage in politics themselves, in order to move towards a much more inclusive society. we would thus stop talking about disabled people and talk more with them.
mr president, we should probably be glad that the prime minister found his way here because i hear, prime minister, that you posted a video message on facebook that you were going to brussels to protect hungary. this is not, of course, brussels, but since brussels is all that embodies the nefarious influences upon hungary for you, i suppose that between here and brussels there is no difference. europe has to be brussels, and brussels is not good for the country. because it would impose migration, because it would impose certain functioning measures and certain democratic standards, probably because it would also be looking after its money. and honestly, i am sick and tired of seeing eur five billion go every year essentially to make a few people close to you richer, every year, and having for the rest, the hungarian economy – which is probably glad that 700 000 people have left over the last 10 years because otherwise they would be in the country and unemployed. the only reason why unemployment is where it is, is not the prowess of the government; it is the fact that people have voted with their feet. now otherwise, what happens with the money? enormous billboard campaigns against brussels, against the commission, against parliament, against the commission president, against soros on the sidelines – but that is not really relevant in the brussels context, apart from the fact that we are all apparently doing the bidding of mr soros. the only thing i know is that i never had a study grant from him. other people apparently did. i never even shook the man’s hand. others have accepted favours. i noticed one thing and that is that today you are even more behaving like the leader of a sect than ever before. it’s only about religion, the right form of family, the nation, and shutting the other out. among the many mails that we got, prime minister, there was one from pastor ivanyi, who i believe once officiated at your wedding. i do not think he is less good at religion and less good at christianity than you are, and he is not feeling comfortable any longer. and i am not comfortable with this discourse because the christian democracy that i want to belong to is a christian democracy that accepts the secular state. i don’t want to become part of a sect and i don’t want to be treated like i was facing a sect. what you are doing in hungary is dangerous, but the hungarians seem to vote for you. let them go on doing that; we will vote for something else tomorrow, at least as far as i am concerned.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would first like to thank my co-rapporteur, juan fernando lopez aguilar, and the non-attached rapporteurs for the good cooperation between the econ (economic and monetary affairs) and libe (civil liberties, justice and home affairs) committees, which enabled us to reach a text in the trilogue that i am quite happy with, because it strikes a good balance between, on the one hand, the effectiveness of the means of action of the national authorities and, on the other hand, the protection of citizens' privacy. the regulation on controls on cash entering or leaving the union contributes to strengthening the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing by giving the competent authorities of the member states, the customs authorities, the instruments they need to fulfil their mission at the external border of the union. it establishes a system of controls applicable to persons entering or leaving the union carrying cash of an amount equal to or greater than eur 10 000 or the equivalent in other currencies. the definition of cash obviously includes cash, but also gold and certain types of anonymous prepaid cards that are not linked to any bank account. the customs authorities, of course, play a key role, but so do the financial intelligence units in the various member states, which receive and process information from a variety of sources and are therefore well placed to determine whether there is a need for a more in-depth investigation of this money. this is why national information systems need to be interconnected and information made available to the authorities quickly. the european parliament also asked the commission to examine the appropriateness of setting up a financial intelligence unit at eu level. it is not a question of casting any suspicion on people who are acting in good faith, but it is not acceptable that within the european union we do not have sufficient information on the sums that are smuggled across our borders because this information is scattered among the member states and the criminals are counting precisely on non-cooperation between the authorities of the member states. the regulation provides that 'any person carrying a sum of €10,000 or more must make a declaration indicating the recipient, the economic source and the intended use of the money, and the competent authorities will have the possibility to hold the money temporarily under certain conditions, of course: when the obligation to declare has not been complied with and when there are indications of criminal activity'. this temporary retention period should be limited to the time necessary to decide whether further investigations are necessary, and of course a minimum sum should be left at the disposal of the bearer to enable him to support himself. in any event, the authorities are obliged to provide an explanation and to describe the reasons for the temporary seizure. the member states are responsible for setting the penalties for non-compliance with the obligation to report. they must be proportionate and effective. the european parliament calls on the member states to make the penalties applied at national level as convergent as possible, in order to avoid criminals choosing the member state of entry or exit where the penalties are the lightest. finally, i would like to mention that regular information campaigns should be carried out to remedy the current situation where many people are not aware that they are obliged to declare their cash beyond a certain amount.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and all the other members for their speeches and for this lively debate. i see that this is a subject in which you are fully invested and i welcome your commitment, because the commission needs your support, simply because this is a cause worth defending. i always enjoy listening to mr. coburn. we rarely agree, but i respect his taste for freedom and, after all, our disagreements. but now, mr. coburn, tonight, no. i do not follow you. i think that the love of freedom and the ability to do business should not be at odds with the security of our fellow citizens when they are hit by terrorism, because that is what it is all about and nothing else. this is the only reason why the commission has been able to legislate in a context... (in response to an off-the-record intervention by mr coburn) listen, you're talking to a commissioner who's also french, and who was in bed when 100 people were killed in paris at the bataclan. believe me, to set up this kind of operation, you need funding and that is why the fight against the financing of terrorism is a top priority that we all must share. we cannot put ideology where it has no place. i therefore strongly hope that this proposal to strengthen controls on cash entering and leaving the european union will be adopted as soon as possible. this is imperative, because the threat of terrorism is still very present in europe and it is the responsibility of all european decision-makers to empower national authorities to combat this scourge effectively. we owe it to the 500 million european citizens who are counting on us. i am convinced that this instrument will make a significant contribution to strengthening the european arsenal in the fight against terrorist financing. as some of you have mentioned, the draft regulation will now allow customs authorities to obtain more data, to share it more quickly between customs authorities and with financial intelligence units, but yes, that is what it is all about, and also electronically. i would also like to stress that the commission will take its role in the implementation phase of this proposal very seriously. as i have explained, this commission has made the fight against terrorism one of its priorities and we are and will remain fully committed alongside the member states to facilitate their collective action, since we have been entrusted with many responsibilities: adapting the computer tool for the exchange of data between authorities and keeping the council and parliament informed of the operation of the new provisions. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that today you are all, or almost all, convinced of the need to adopt this proposal as soon as tomorrow to ensure its implementation as soon as possible. it is essential because the terrorist threat in europe persists, because innocent people are still and always the victims, because we know that this threat is evolving and will take on more and more sophisticated forms, because we know that the current rules are outdated and no longer allow us to combat this phenomenon with the necessary effectiveness. finally, and i will end with this message, we must act quickly because the fight against terrorism is an area on which our fellow european citizens legitimately expect an effective and common response. we are a few months away from the european elections, and it is absolutely essential to bring this proof of europe. we are judged on our actions, that is natural, and the time has come to demonstrate to the citizens, to the europeans, the added value of our collective action and the interest of our common project, and there is a good practical translation of this tonight.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i think that everything has been said, i have rarely seen a regulation find such a broad consensus in this parliament, with one exception, which i would interpret as more bad faith than a valid argument. i am satisfied with this consensus, but the reason for it is much more worrying. we all have seen the importance of the financing of terrorism and criminal activities in europe, and it was necessary for us to come together to agree on a regulation that helps to combat criminal activities. i would not say that it is the panacea, but it is an important contribution, and we will have to be just as vigilant on other issues as we are on the cash controls. i would like to thank the commissioner for his commitment to follow closely the implementation of this regulation and tell him that parliament too has made many calls to the commission and the member states and that we would like this collective effort to be respected by all participants. i can only thank all my colleagues once again for their cooperation and wish them a very positive vote in the plenary tomorrow.
mr president, i thank mr de demesmaeker for this remarkable report and the work he has done. ladies and gentlemen, 87 percent of our citizens are concerned about the damage caused by plastic. i'm part of that 87 percent because i, too, want to leave a livable planet for future generations. this morning, jean-claude juncker confirmed his intention to enshrine the reduction of the use of plastics in european legislation. the proposal on single-use plastics, to which mr juncker referred, still lacks the ambition i would like. that is why i tabled an amendment requiring member states to reduce their national consumption of plastic by 50%. i would also like to say a word to the austrian presidency, which is here today: the european parliament will certainly be ready to conclude this dossier under your presidency. we can do more: first, to ensure the innovation needed for a circular economy policy post-2020; second, to develop a vibrant sector of innovation and research to design alternatives to plastics; and third, to act to accelerate what i call the 'plexit', the exit from plastic. ladies and gentlemen, we also need a swift agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) before the 2019 elections. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht, and i would like to thank him for his work. mr. agnew told us about the biodegradable plastics, but actually these plastics are also made from petroleum. an additive is added to them, but their impact on animal health, human health and the environment is the same as that of conventional plastics. mr lancini said there was no alternative to some of the products covered by the proposal on single-use plastics. i have to tell him that those alternatives already exist; they're a little bit more expensive, but demand will grow and prices will become affordable.
i have to say, madam president, 25.8 million tonnes of plastic waste are generated in the eu every year. less than 30% of it is recycled. between 150,000 and 500,000 tonnes of plastic end up in the ocean every year, with devastating effects on marine ecosystems. animals such as fish, turtles and birds become trapped or suffocated in plastic. plastic waste also causes great damage on land, with catastrophic consequences for animals. people suffer too. microplastics, which may be present in cosmetics, among other things, can end up in the oceans or even in the food chain with potential health consequences. and by not reusing plastic, we lose between 70 and 105 billion dollars a year. now is the time for action! the environmental and health costs must be taken into account. the sale, consumption and waste must be better regulated. and above all, we must and will act to protect the health and the environment of our citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one is questioning the need for action on climate change. i must admit, however, that mrs dalli's report gives me quite a tummy ache. luxembourg is one of the two member states with the highest reduction targets to be achieved by 2030 in the non-ets sectors. we're talking about minus 40 percent of that. passive houses are already standard in luxembourg. we are also at the forefront of agri-environmental measures in agriculture. the transport sector accounts for 64% of non-ets emissions. i am therefore not able to avoid calling for a more ambitious target than the 30% set by the commission. what makes sense in the short term may not be right in the long term. some in this house are calling for a reduction target of minus 50% or more. the only way to achieve this goal would be to switch to electric mobility. but where does this electricity come from? 25% of our electricity comes from coal, 24% from nuclear energy, and that certainly explains why the electricity giants who rely on nuclear power are trying to influence us massively. we do not want to roll out a new red carpet here to give coal and nuclear power new possibilities. we want to have a technology-neutral discussion here. like my colleagues belet, leinen and pieper, i too call for alternative hybrid vehicles to be given a chance. there's a kind of myopia that can be corrected with glasses. let 's get this wrong ... (the president cut the speaker off)
for the greens/efa group consider three reasons for the urgency of the situation. firstly, it is a breeding which is totally contrary to the welfare of the chickens. the spaces are crowded, and the chickens cannot move sufficiently, peck, jump on branches, or even spread their wings properly. this treatment causes immense suffering. their bones become fragile and their behavior abnormal. secondly, it has consequences for the health of animals and humans. most chickens in the european union are kept in intensive farming systems that contribute to poor health conditions and require mass treatment with antibiotics to prevent or contain outbreaks. this is developing the emergence of antimicrobial resistance, which is a threat to public health. thirdly, it has serious consequences for the environment. intensive farming is also a source of pollution. to name just one: ammonia. ammonia pollutes the air, water and soil and instead of subsidizing practices which are more respectful of the environment, animals and people, we finance these large-scale farming practices by subsidizing them with the cap. the way we treat animals is a mirror of our european society and i am sure that we do not want a society where factory farming and animal abuse continue to be subsidised. we can change that and i call on the commission to do so, thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to say that, in the end, no one in this house is opposed to this debate and to the adoption of such a resolution. we are working together with all the other groups to achieve this, and we in the epp would like to see this done in a dignified, orderly and organised way in november. that means a three-week delay, not three years, but three weeks. i am well aware of the reasons why some of us want to include this item on this week's agenda, which coincides with the formal anniversary of the previously adopted parliamentary resolution. i wanted to tell you that there were good reasons not to do it this month, beyond the fact that the conference of presidents did not plan to do it this month; there would have been no problem doing it next month, in three weeks. we will interfere, among other things, with an election which is taking place in one of the countries covered by our rule of law work and i do not think it is particularly smart to want to do this now when we would have had all the time in the world to do it in three weeks' time and thus avoid interfering with these elections, which is not making any sense and is likely to harm those who want and insist that there should be such a mechanism, and i am one of them. i didn't want to do this exercise this week, but in three weeks. the epp group therefore urges you to agree to this being done in november, in three weeks, with good preparation and with all the time necessary to do so.
mr president, i would like to thank ms ries and commissioner vella for their constructive work. in order to prevent moby dick from becoming moby sick, we have to act now. more than half of the plastics we find on our beaches are single-use plastics. even the degraded plastics, or microplastics, are fatal to many marine species, which die after the worst possible sufferings. 87% of eu citizens are deeply concerned by the effects of plastics on our environment, and i have to tell you that they are right. but the simple banning of certain single-use plastics is not enough. in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i tabled an amendment for a binding reduction target of 50% for single-use plastics in all member states by 2025. unfortunately, this was too ambitious for some members of this parliament. but we owe it to our citizens to stand strong, and thatʼs why we have tabled another proposal for binding national targets in plenary. i note that the rapporteur supports this amendment, and i hope that others will find the courage to do so as well.
president-in-office of the council. – thank you president, we appreciate that parliament has given the council the opportunity to participate in this debate. this parliament has indeed always shown great dedication to protection of the rule of law, of democracy and of fundamental rights in our union. the protection and promotion of our core values as stated in article 2 of the treaty of the european union is a constant challenge. this challenge requires unwavering attention and effort across all institutions and all policy areas. democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and human rights are the cornerstones of the european union. each member state must therefore respect, protect and promote them. the austrian presidency, and indeed all of us, agree that protection of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our union cannot be taken for granted. to address this challenge, the council and a member state established a meeting within the council, the so-called ‘annual rule of law dialogue’. the last rule of law dialogue was organised by the estonian presidency in october 2017 on media pluralism and the rule of law in a digital age. the next rule of law dialogue will be organised in november by the austrian presidency. it will deal with the issue of trust in public institutions and rule of law. from the beginning we were aware that the council’s response to rule of law issues needed to be reviewed at a regular pace and if needed, improved or adapted to current challenges. the last evaluation in 2016 showed, among others, that the preparation of dialogues should be more systematic and include the organisation of other accompanying events. this would provide for the possibility to assemble broad input at expert level, including the involvement of other eu institutions or other institutional organisations. the estonian presidency and now our presidency have followed these recommendations and included experts in the preparation of the annual ministerial dialogue. by the end of 2019 the council will conduct a re—evaluation of the rule of law dialogue and consider ways to further strengthen it. in the meantime, the council must task it with conducting two article 7 procedures, on poland and hungary. since the procedure was triggered, every general affairs council meeting has discussed the situation in poland and in hungary. of course, the council is not acting alone in these matters of fundamental importance. the presidency notes with interest the commitment of this parliament and its legislative initiative report on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. in addition, the commission plays a vital role in monitoring developments in this field across the union. we also wish to highlight the role played by the council of europe and the venice commission in these questions and i note that in its working programme 2019, the commission indicated that it would come up with a further strengthening of the 2014 rule of law framework. let me conclude by stressing that safeguarding democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights goes to the heart of our commitment to this union. the success of this political project will be measured by its ability and determination to uphold these core values. we will play our part.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, when we discussed – i think it was exactly two years ago – the issue of stepping up our mechanism to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, i said on behalf of the commission that we fully support parliament’s objectives underlying the resolution adopted in 2016. like parliament, the commission is deeply committed to ensuring that our common european values, including in particular democracy and the rule of law, are respected. i believe the actions of the commission over the past four years leave no grounds for any doubt on that matter. so we agree on the end, and the discussion between us is about identifying the best means. the developments which have occurred over the past two years have only made the commission more convinced of the importance of using the instruments we already have to uphold eu values in the most effective way. the diversity of challenges we are facing requires a diversity of responses at eu level. among these developments, the deterioration of the situation with the rule of law in poland led the commission, in december 2017, to initiate the procedure set out in article 7 of the treaty on the european union. last month parliament decided to initiate the same procedure as regards hungary. these are unprecedented steps in the history of our union. the commission has recently launched a number of values-related infringement proceedings, and with regard to the polish law on the supreme court we have also invited the court of justice to impose interim measures. in addition, we have used other instruments, including audits and investigations relating to the use of eu funds, as well as measures through the european semester to monitor justice reforms in member states. the commission has used its powers as initiator of legislation to propose, as a key component of our next multiannual financial framework, a regulation on protecting the union’s budget in the event of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states. the rules we propose would allow the union to suspend, reduce or restrict access to eu funding when generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law impair or threaten to impair sound financial management or the union’s financial interest. these actions show the commission’s determination to use all of the instruments at its disposal to address value-related concerns. in each case the commission uses the instruments that we consider can be most effective. however, this does not mean there is no need to improve the eu’s capacity to promote and uphold our common values. on the contrary, we need to make better use of the enforcement toolbox at our disposal. parliament’s 2016 resolution contained a number of ideas that the commission supports: for example, setting up an interparliamentary dialogue between the european parliament and national parliaments. the national parliaments are involved in many of the problems related to the rule of law that we have witnessed recently in some member states. such interparliamentary dialogue could, as a first step, discuss the various options and the means currently on the table to ensure that our common values are respected and enforced. the commission will be ready to contribute to such a dialogue. the commission also supports the aim of making the variety of existing data and reports more accessible and visible including a national level. the eu agency for fundamental rights has a role to play in this respect. there are other elements in the resolution which continue to raise questions. for example, the commission maintains its strong doubts about the need for and the feasibility of an annual report and a policy cycle on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, prepared by a committee of experts. the central role attributed to an independent expert panel raises serious questions of legality, institutional legitimacy and accountability. furthermore, the recent developments show that the problem we have is not a lack of reporting mechanisms in europe, but rather a lack of capacity to act and enforce the rule of law and uphold our values in an effective manner. we know the facts. we need to act. for this reason, as was also announced in the letter of intent which accompanied jean-claude juncker’s state of the union speech and which was just today confirmed by the work programme, the commission intends to present an initiative on further strengthening the 2014 rule of law framework. the initiative will draw lessons from the experiences of recent years. it will also take due account of the work of the european parliament, including your resolution on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights mechanism, and the discussion that has ensued. to conclude, i can assure you that the commission is ready to continue the discussion with you to determine how best the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights can be promoted and upheld. this is an objective we share, and one which goes to the very heart of what our european union is.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam secretary of state, mr first vice-president, i congratulate and thank you for the progress made in safeguarding fundamental rights and the rule of law, but i have to tell you again and again that this is not enough and you know it. we do not disagree on the shortcomings we see in this area because they are many and they are becoming more and more pervasive. the number of states which would now have to be listed if the list of states in which the rule of law is not what it should be were to be drawn up is constantly increasing. instead of going back to what we demanded in a resolution a few years ago, i would simply like to recall the main observation and the main problem in my view. unfortunately, we in europe do not agree on how to govern. and what we are supposed to hear when we go to hungary or elsewhere, to poland, romania, malta, slovakia - the list will undoubtedly go on - is not what we might expect to hear in other parts of europe. and i remind you that parliament has made this observation by saying precisely for this reason that we must have a permanent interaction with each other, representatives of all the member states, on how we can govern legitimately and on what we must not do in europe if we want to claim common values, common principles, a common basis for governance. we have to lay that foundation because it's not there. we didn't expect this when we were drafting the treaties. it's time to put it in place.
madam president, i too would like to welcome the european union's cohesion in the brexit negotiations. we owe it to the efficiency of the commission, the talent of michel barnier and the responsible attitude of our member states. can we therefore hope that at least when crises become existential, we can still mobilise critical mass around a project? doubts are permissible in view of the hesitations, the procrastination, the endless discussions and postponements which prevent us from moving forward on the essential projects. for reasons of timeliness, however, i would like to end my speech by renewing my respect for the way in which german social democracy opposed nazism in the 1930s. it was also on the basis of these acts of resistance that the hope of a return to civilization became thinkable. anyone who still likes to confuse this aspect of the history of the 1930s is disqualifying himself from responsible political debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism and particularly ms revault d'allonnes bonnefoy and the shadow rapporteurs for this ambitious report on the commission’s proposal to revise the current eu rules on road charging. the commission proposed a major step to put into practice the application of their polluter-pays and user-pays principle, and i am very glad to see that our level of ambition is shared by the european parliament, which wishes to go even further in some cases. the proposal presented by the commission last year as part of the first mobility package aims to make sure that national charging schemes converge. the intention is to modernise charging for trucks and buses and, for the first time, to apply some common principles to cars and vans. to be very clear, we would leave it to member states to decide whether or not to charge for any infrastructure, but if they decide to do so, they would have to conform to common principles. as a contribution to forward-looking climate change policy, we propose to modulate tolls to reflect the level of co2 emissions. at the same time, we would simplify the application of external cost-charging to address also other forms of pollution. more regular and thorough reporting on the revenues generated by charges should ensure transparency and, importantly, improve access by users. i very much welcome the wide support for the commission’s proposal behind the changes proposed by ms revault d'allonnes bonnefoy. i also know that many amendments in her report aim to go beyond the commission’s proposal. i believe that your position could ease the discussion later on with the council. at the same time, in some cases we need to be cautious, as amendments might be difficult to implement. let me highlight just five key points. first, on the transition to distance-based tolls. i am happy to see that parliament wants to speed up the transition from time-based user charges to modern and proportionate distance-based tolls. this could ensure fair and efficient road pricing, which is a key element of our policy aiming at the decarbonisation of transport. on the second point – on external cost-charging – we consider that the simplification proposed should make external cost-charging more appealing to member states. this should help them to tackle the problems of air pollution and noise generated by road transport. at the same time, one should be careful when setting minimum charges both for external costs and for congestion. as actual costs differ between member states, the commission favours reference value rather than minimum. on markups, the commission welcomes the simplification related to the application of markups. these measures can help member states to finance transport infrastructure of critical importance and thus reduce congestion and environmental damage. having said that, markups can represent a significant increase in the toll – up to 20% – and it is thus essential that they are applied in full transparency. the notification of such schemes to the commission is there to ensure such necessary transparency. on discounts counts for frequent users, the commission is also open to consider appropriate discounts with respect to frequent users who might be most affected by tolls, and it is understood that this has to be done with sufficient safeguards to avoid discrimination against occasional and transit traffic, while following the same common principles. last but not least, on earmarking. even though the council might favour a different approach, i am convinced that the earmarking of toll revenues and the more detailed reporting you propose could contribute a great deal to acceptance of tolls by the users as well as, of course, ensure badly-needed financial means for maintenance of transport infrastructure. i am very much looking forward to the debate tonight.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. for 20 years we have been trying to set up a uniform european system for charging on our roads for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. the previous directives have done this only very poorly. the consequence is that today in europe we have a patchwork of sometimes non-interoperable user fees, tolls or vignette with or without adjusted external costs. this mess is not in keeping with our present environmental ambitions or those of an integrated transport market. in order to remedy this situation, the following points were particularly important to me: firstly, the inclusion of light commercial vehicles, which are in direct competition with lorries over 3.5 tonnes. however, we do not focus on the burden on craft businesses, but only on the professional drivers who are covered by the regulation on the rules for access to the market for crossborder freight transport. secondly, a uniform application of external costs with incentives to invest in clean vehicles with a technology neutral approach. thirdly, more transparency on the use of the fees collected. this is a particularly important point for me, because we need more investment in our infrastructure. even economically well-off member states have considerable catch-up needs. i have spoken out against a european framework for congestion charges. i think that this will not solve the problem of congestion on our roads. the directive does not deal only with lorries, but also with cars. the question whether they should fall within the scope of this directive is one to which i would answer clearly in the affirmative. why do i think that? the rules on mobility for our citizens must be simple, efficient and non-discriminatory. it is therefore important that each country respects the same rules. that is why i support the phasing out of vignette, and i believe that this is not fair and does not meet our political aspirations today. the report also provides a number of incentives to invest in clean vehicles, and member states retain the power to grant a number of exemptions. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
mr president, i just noticed that we have fallen to 372 voting numbers. i consider that under those circumstances it simply makes no sense to continue this vote and i suggest that we discontinue the vote and that we recap with a vote on this text at the next session, because this cannot continue. (applause)
mr president, each and every one of us can get lyme disease, lyme disease. one walk in the woods is enough. lyme disease can cause serious health problems, including paralysis, joint infections, and heart problems. everyone knows that ticks transmit lyme disease to humans. but how do ticks get lyme disease? it is from small rodents, such as mice, that ticks catch lyme disease. and that's where the hero of my story comes in: the fox. the more foxes there are, the less mice and small rodents get out of their holes and circulate, and the less the disease spreads. i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, let's let our natural ecosystem do its job, let the fox live and above all let it do its job, because it contributes a lot to the prevention of lyme disease.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, fundamental rights, inclusive growth and social fairness are at the core of this commission’s agenda. we are working hard to make sure that no one is left behind, and i would like to think madam estaràs ferragut and the femm committee for putting forward this question on the situation of women with disabilities. the commission has undertaken important legislative initiatives for fostering the participation of persons with disabilities in society and for promoting gender equality. just to give you two examples: the european accessibility act, on which there has recently been a provisional agreement among co-legislators, will break down barriers to key products and services. the accessibility act will, in particular, be a key tool to bridge the digital divide. secondly, the commission has proposed a work-life balance package in order to enable carers – mainly women – to better balance work and caring responsibilities. this is a key initiative to contribute to bridging the existing employment gap, pay gap and pension gap between men and women, and i hope the ongoing trilogues will produce results soon. let me now respond to the three questions you’ve put forward. together with all of our member states, the european union has committed to implement the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european disability strategy is the main instrument to support the union’s implementation of the convention until 2020. it is part of the wider efforts under the europe 2020 strategy to succeed in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. indeed, full economic and social participation of people with disabilities is essential to fulfil the objectives of the european 2020 strategy. the commission is currently preparing an evaluation of the implementation of the current european disability strategy. the evaluation will cover all aspects of this ability. this includes, in particular, the situation of women and girls with disabilities and the challenges stemming from inter-sectional discrimination. and of course, as part of our preparations, we will consult as many stakeholders as possible. we will take into account the european parliament’s views, such as last year’s resolution on the concluding observations of the un committee. now on the gender-disaggregated data. reliable and accurate data are essential for policy development. the commission already disaggregates by gender the disability-related data it collects, including within the european semester. these data provide us with an objective basis for identifying intersectional discrimination. our data show, for instance, that in the areas of poverty risk and employment, women with disabilities are disadvantaged compared to men with disabilities. in the area of education, however, we observe a higher percentage of early school-leaving with boys with disabilities than with girls. attention to gender equality is also paid in the union’s external action activities. we notably provide support to partner countries to improve data collection disaggregated by sex and disability. there is also the obligation to complete a gender analysis for each development cooperation project or programme. as a last point, i want to address the question on what the commission is doing to enable participation of women with disabilities in the european elections. my colleague, commissioner jourová, has delivered a statement on the participation of people with disabilities in the european elections at the european parliament’s plenary session on 5 july this year, and she pointed out the commission’s recommendation of february 2018, which addresses the exchange of best practices with a view to promote the exercise of electoral rights of under-represented groups, including persons with disabilities. in april this year we followed up with a dedicated session on this topic, involving our network of member states experts in electoral matters, and this week, on 26 and 27 november, we dedicated the annual colloquium on fundamental rights to democracy and the european union, including the promotion of broad participation as a condition for inclusive democratic societies. and finally, i want to mention that the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites, which came into effect last september, will contribute to assuring the accessibility of information issued by public bodies across the union about political participation and elections. thank you again for these questions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. are we really respecting the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities? i'm not going to. people with disabilities, and particularly women with disabilities, are still discriminated against in the field of education, in the field of work, but also in the field of personal, private development. but everyone has the right to be happy. everyone has the right to live a life of their own, a life where sexuality is not taboo, a life where i can live out my sexuality, but also where saying no means the right to start a family, the right to marry, but also to live with my partner. and it is in these areas that women with disabilities need our support and our guidance. this is not about compassion, this is about a fundamental human right.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to ask for parliament’s consent on the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eu and japan. as the rapporteur, mr silva pereira, has explained, this is a very important agreement, and i would like to thank him and his team for the good cooperation we’ve had throughout these negotiations. as you know, the foundations of world trade are being shaken right now, and it is therefore important for the eu and its partners to reinforce their ties and to demonstrate the value of free economic exchanges based on fair rules, as opposed to whim and transactional strength, and japan is clearly one such partner. the epa has a strategic importance and an unquestionable economic and political value. it supports free and fair trade and helps the eu to make further inroads in the far east, after a free trade agreement with south korea. japan is the world’s third largest economy. it’s the eu’s second trade partner in asia and, through its economic footprint in east asia, japan can play a big role in shaping the development of rules and standards in the eu. we have every interest in the european union in cooperating with japan to secure a free and open environment in the region in asia. from a bilateral perspective, the eu-japan epa removes the vast majority of the eur 1 billion duties paid annually on eu exports to japan. it will open up the japanese market for 97% of all product categories, while the remaining ones will benefit from increased market access opportunities. we estimate in the commission that these will lead to additional annual eu exports worth eur 13 billion. important longstanding non-tariff barriers will be removed in the car sector, as the eu and japan have agreed to reinforce international standards and to rely on them in defining the regulatory framework. european companies will be able to bid on equal terms for public procurement contracts, including at sub-central level for the 54 largest cities in japan. european origin names for more than 200 foodstuffs will be protected against misuse. we also have a specific chapter on small and medium-sized enterprises, in which we commit to supporting our smes through dedicated information portals and contact points. this is clearly economically beneficial and it is intended to provide a basis for advancing important eu priorities regarding the economic transition towards a socially and environmentally sustainable model of growth and the protection of areas of overriding interest to public policy, such as health, safety and individual privacy. the epa protects the european model of regulation. it sets up mechanisms that both parties can use to accompany the industrial transformation that the world’s environment requires. under the regulatory cooperation provisions, we will engage with japan on common responses to new technological challenges, from electric vehicles to product standards, to reducing waste. the agreement lays the groundwork for bilateral engagement on social protection rules. japan is a country committed to sustainable development provisions and it has established an inter-ministerial group to work on their implementation. this group is to consider the ratification of two fundamental international labour organisation (ilo) conventions, as well as any domestic legislative adjustment that may be required, but japan’s national legislation today also protects workers’ rights in this regard. it is important for us in the eu to protect our economic and social model by spurring sustainable growth through free and fair trade and by cooperating with a friend and ally like japan in the defence of these common interests. this agreement has been designed to spur our trade with, and our competitiveness in, a major economy with which, moreover, the eu must cooperate to defend open economic relations and develop sound international standards. i hope that parliament will send out a strong global signal tomorrow by voting with a strong majority for this agreement. at the same time, you will also be voting on the strategic partnership agreement (spa). here again, it ties us closer to our japanese friends’ democracies with their attachment not only to fair and free trade, as i have said, but also to multilateralism, human rights and the rule of law – and we have so many common interests and fundamental shared values. a strong eu-japan partnership is more important than ever in an international context in which these values and principles are, as you know, being challenged. we need to work together and to show joint leadership. this is of strategic importance, as is the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement. it will help us to make a positive contribution to the shaping of a cooperative regional order and it will help us to promote joint interests in the global arena. in this way, the benefits of the partnership go well beyond our bilateral relations. the agreement provides for close cooperation on global issues. japan is, in fact, an indispensable partner in tackling many of the challenges that we both face – including climate change and cybersecurity. japan is an important partner when it comes to development aid and humanitarian assistance. together we count amongst the world’s biggest donors. the report by mr peterle – and i would like to thank him and his team for the excellent work they have done – also highlights the direct connection between european prosperity and asian security, and the other way around. this is very important because it will help us to strengthen cooperation on security, crisis management and peace-keeping and we will do so jointly. the eu and japan have been able to promote sustainable, rules-based connectivity in europe, asia and the pacific, so we are bringing asia and europe closer via this agreement, and that reflects the policy direction contained in our global strategy. it will strengthen our cooperation in tackling the many other challenges that our economies and societies face, and mr peterle mentioned them –remaining competitive, respecting rapidly emerging economies, coping with ageing societies and addressing energy and resource concerns. we have a lot to gain here by sharing experiences when we address these issues. the spa will serve as a charter, underpinning our partnership, helping us turn our political ambitions into concrete action and joint initiatives. the european parliament has a crucial role here in adopting the agreement. in addition, there are the eu-japan interparliamentary meetings, the parliamentary diplomacy that makes a valuable contribution to our existing and future strategic partnership. parliament’s engagement has underpinned decades of successful cooperation, and we can build on these efforts. so the importance of these exchanges is explicitly enshrined in the strategic partnership agreement. i’m looking forward to the debate and, i hope, to a successful vote for both these agreements.
member of the commission. – madam president, you have asked for a debriefing on the draft adequacy decision for japan and i am happy to provide it. we are now working with the european parliament, the european data protection board and the eu governments to scrutinise our findings and make sure our assessment is correctly informed. the adequacy decision is of crucial importance because, with the adequacy in place, we will be able to create the biggest area of safe flow of data between our economies. while our citizens will benefit from greater privacy protection, our economies will also benefit from easier transfer of personal data. the most crucial aspect is, of course, that of convergence, the similarity of our data protection regime. as commissioner malmström has just said, japan is a stable democracy, respecting fully the principle of rule of law. at the same time, japan also is a country that has recently decided to change its approach to data protection by adopting a law that shares all key elements of our european general data protection regulation. actually, it is difficult to find another country outside the eu that has inspired itself so much from our approach to privacy. the japanese law contains the same core principles, safeguards and individual rights as we know them from our law. these rules are checked and enforced by an independent supervisory authority – the personal information protection commission – which was also our main interlocutor throughout the adequacy negotiations. according to the court of justice, adequacy does not require a photocopy of our rules; the mechanism can differ, but the overall level of protection has to be essentially equivalent. it is our main benchmark in all the negotiations of possible adequacy decisions with other countries. this is also why we have negotiated a set of additional safeguards, which address the few relevant differences that we have found comparing the european and japanese systems. we have also obtained the creation of an ad hoc complaint resolution mechanism, easily accessible for eu citizens in the sensitive area of government access to data. all the elements we have negotiated will ensure a high level of protection for data transfers to japan. this type of convergence with the eu data protection system is exactly what the european parliament has been calling for. it would thus be very important for your resolution to welcome it. this brings me to the strategic importance of this decision. as you know, japan is one of our most important trading partners, and thus the destination of a large volume of data. this underlines both the need for protection and the economic relevance of the adequacy finding. in this process we have engaged intensively with all stakeholders, with the data protection authorities, with the european data protection board, member states and, of course, with the european parliament. and this has already helped to clarify and strengthen a number of elements in the decision. i am therefore confident that we can finalise this process and adopt the adequacy decision as soon as possible. on the japanese side, the japanese data protection authority has already finalised its adequacy assessment for the eu and the timing of its decision will be synchronised so that we have both adequacy findings on the same day. together, these mutual adequacy decisions will create the largest area of safe and free data flows in the world, thus complementing the economic partnership agreement and increasing its benefits. this will also send a strong message to other countries that it is worth bringing their data protection framework closer to ours and, in other words, that convergence pays off. this will also confirm that the eu approach works while we are keeping the parallel tracks of negotiations, and personal data are not part of the trade talks. this proves we can work together to enhance strategic partnership with our allies and support the objective of secure data flows between our economies. in the end, this is a win—win situation – a win for the citizens and a win for the traders.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the eu-japan epa is far from being godzilla, as some have called it in the past. after six years of negotiations, it’s high time we ratified this historical agreement with such a like-minded and outstanding partner. it is time for our businesses, especially smes, and our consumers to start enjoying the benefits of this landmark agreement. why is this agreement of such importance? well, for many reasons. first of all, the huge economic gains. the eur 1 billion tariff cuts for our companies and farmers. secondly, its chapter on sustainable development, including our renewed commitment to the paris agreement. it is a clear win-win agreement that comes at a critical geopolitical moment, where trade wars can be triggered by a simple tweet and unilateral tariffs barriers are raised. responsibility lies heavily on our shoulders to stand up for our values and our social and environmental standards. i can think of no better ally than the land of the rising sun for such a free, fair and open trade regime. (applause from the visitors’ gallery)
