mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. we know that no man can work unless he eats. similarly, our economy cannot grow without energy. energy is needed for our factories, our businesses, our transport, our households, our agriculture - we all need energy. but unfortunately we do not produce enough energy in europe, we do not have it, and we are forced to import mostly from russia (gas, petroleum products). we can make a big difference, not just by using the energy we have more efficiently, but by using more of the energy we have, which is renewable energy -- that is, wind, solar, hydropower, biomass. ladies and gentlemen, by supporting these two pieces of legislation, we will not only reduce our co2 emissions and do good for the environment, but we will also significantly reduce our dependence on imports, which is vital for the whole of europe. thank you for your attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for voting in favour of non-citizens from latvia and estonia during the december 2017 plenary. i would like to show you the card made by the three of us, members yana toom and tatjana ždanoka and myself your servant, andrejs mamikins. this card will be distributed by all the members who voted for non-citizens. it represents the real passports of these people. you'll see the words "alien's passport" on it. we must put an end to the shame of mass non-citizenship. we must therefore give these people the right to vote in the next european elections in 2019.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i will not try to describe all the impacts of russian propaganda on european countries and societies: instead i will focus on what should be our response. first we have to recognise, and then to raise awareness and share expertise within the union. i commend the work of the european external action service (eeas) east stratcom task force, the eu hybrid fusion cell and the centres of excellence for strategic communication and for countering hybrid threats, but i regret that the eu capacities are under-funded and under-staffed. the commission and the eeas have not heard the alarm bells that have been ringing in this house and in the european capitals since the war against ukraine. i invite commission vice-president and high representative mogherini and other eu leaders to balance their meetings with lavrov and putin with due attention to the kremlin’s attempts to weaken and undermine our democracies and alliances. secondly, we have to make our societies more resilient. there are many aspects to this but some require swift legislative action by the house. through the revised audiovisual services directive we have to mandate national media regulators to adopt a zero tolerance policy against hate speech, irrespective of the media platform, and there is a need for significantly increased transparency of media ownership so that citizens know who’s who in the media they use. freedom of speech should be defended against those who use it against our fundamental values. transparency and stricter regulation are the key words for political-party and campaign funding in the member states. the epp group has called for a major review looking into indirect kremlin funding of european political protagonists, and particularly into shady support for anti-european and anti-democratic forces in our societies. this is closely linked to the need for enhanced investigation and prevention of money laundering by kremlin-linked entities through european banks and companies. thirdly, we have to consider how we credibly deter the kremlin from cyber meddling and disinformation operations. when told in no uncertain terms that it will face unpleasant consequences and bear significant costs, the kremlin tends to listen. but any deterrent is credible only if it is based on capacities and the political will to deploy the instruments available, and once again we need adequate resources at european level. the eu cyber security agency is in its infancy and, if we want to be serious about it, its budget should be increased not twofold but tenfold. one key to our capacity building in the cyber domain is trans-atlantic cooperation and nato, and, given the political dynamics in washington, european states have to take the lead in any collective action vis-à-vis the kremlin, as well as in setting international rules for cyber space. europe drives the global agreement on climate change and it should be among the rule makers for cyber space. fourthly, there is no substitute for independent and fact-based journalism. the world’s richest and most powerful publisher, facebook, has replaced editors with algorithms, shifting entire societies away from critical thinking while making billions from our clicks. i am convinced that quality journalism should be supported by governments, and by the eu, because otherwise it would disappear and leave us all at the mercy of kremlin and other trolls who have learned how to play the social media game. (applause)
for the ecr group - the president! i remember four years ago -- before the russian occupation of crimea -- i was talking to my western european colleague here in parliament about sputnik being registered in their country, that it was going to be broadcast in many languages, and his answer was, "we're always for freedom of speech, we're not worried about that". i think this is an example of how many western democracies have underestimated what the kremlin administration is doing as putin comes to power, in the areas of technology and it capabilities - from cyberattacks, from leakers of information about western democracies that then hide in russia or friendly countries, to propaganda at a very advanced level. and to many western countries, i think it seemed to be a problem of the baltic countries or the former eastern bloc countries that the russian worldview was starting to work as a propaganda element. unfortunately, we see that russia is able to interfere with propaganda and many other weapons in the information war, as it was in the united states, not to mention in several countries of the european union and their political processes. the most important thing that was not evaluated here is that you can mix lies with truth in different proportions up to a hundred percent lie and zero percent truth. and this is even the kremlin's head, who can safely say that our smart bears and other, let's say, hackers and those people who work with information programs do it as freelancers, without getting paid for it. and what was said about robots or computers actually creating this social information in the propaganda war, then here we have to remember that when it comes to freedom of speech, robots and computers do not have the right to freedom of speech. freedom of speech is a human right. and that's a very important thing to consider in understanding what kind of adversary we're facing right now. so i think it's extremely important to understand that our antidote to russian propaganda has to be very unconventional and quite fast. otherwise, we won't win.
in writing. the information space has become a modern battlefield, including in europe and latvia. we were the first to notice this in the baltic countries, so in 2015, stratcom became a company in riga. today, thanks in large part to the baltic meps, this issue has been put on the agenda of parliament. russia is one of the countries that uses this information space actively and effectively. while russian authorities make no secret of the fact that fake news and misinformation are military tools, concerns are growing that russia was involved in both the us election and the brexit referendum. social networks have become a fertile ground for this information warfare and the spread of false news. the russian propaganda machine has an astronomical investment. the eu has created the eu eastern stratcom, which is active and successful in disseminating information about exposed russian disinformation campaigns and fake news in an effort to counter kremlin propaganda. therefore, it is necessary to increase the resources and capacity of this centre. we also need to consider how to limit the spread of such information on social networks, what limits to privacy and freedom of expression are allowed here, and whether comments on the internet can be anonymous. we must be prepared to try to influence the outcome of not only national but also european parliament elections. i would also like to add that the influence of russian propaganda is also felt in the european parliament, as there have been repeated attempts to put issues of interest to russia on the agenda of the parliament.
mr president, i welcome the report drafted by my colleague tadeusz zwiefka. this subject comes really close to the core social values of european society, namely safeguarding the interests of children. although parliament’s role in this matter is limited to consultation, i am happy that we managed to achieve a more concrete legislative framework for parental responsibility and cross-border child abduction cases. it is crucial that the best interests of the child are guaranteed in matrimonial matters and therefore i particularly welcome the introduction of the child’s right to be heard. although it remains to be decided how to abolish, in effect, the principle of exequatur in matters of parental responsibility, i am glad to see that the commission’s initial proposal has been expanded to include more consideration of children’s rights. therefore i voted in favour.
mr president, even if the eu is starting to show the first signs of recovery from the economic crisis, in a number of member states tackling youth unemployment it still remains a great challenge. integrating young people that are not in employment, in education or training into the labour market would have benefits in terms of both deepening the internal market and maintaining high social standards. the specific budgetary allocation for the youth employment initiative does not require any cofinancing from the member states. therefore, this initiative should also be particularly welcomed by the member states. in my country, latvia, for example, on 55% of the planned financing for the period 2014-2020 has so far been implemented, while 70% of the eu’s payment has already been delivered. considering this, i welcome the report and i have voted in favour. however, i believe that the initiative should be completed with closer scrutiny over implementation, and better information coverage should be ensured at the national level.
mr president, the eu needs a clear legal framework to guarantee fair and effective regulation of professionals. if we want to achieve common european social standards, we need to make sure that workers belonging to the same profession enjoy the same benefits across the eu. common standards for specific professions would also enhance labour mobility inside the eu and consequently improve our competitiveness. it has to be said that there is still is a huge divide in qualification standards, salaries and working conditions in the eu, but we need to tackle these imperatives and make our citizens feel european, because being european also means having equal labour rights. we have chosen the goal of achieving the social pillar, not because it is an easy task but because it is essential for transmitting eu values into the everyday life of every citizen in the european union. i voted in favour of this report and i would like to thank my colleague, nicola danti, for this work, but i hope that the eu will be able to deliver more concrete results concerning professions. professional life is a crucial element of human dignity, and we need to make sure.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to ask our dear colleagues whether they have wondered why we in the european parliament have pay attention to a dispute between the eu and norway over snow crabs. in practice, the question is not just about snow crabs, but also about control of arctic mineral resources as a signatory to the svalbard treaty, the eu has the right to issue licenses for the harvesting of snow crabs. in 2016 the european commission explicitly issued such licenses to 11 latvian vessels, more than to any other eu member state. this practice will have further implications and will go further than just crabs. soon we will have to speak about petroleum, minerals and gas on the continental shelf surrounding svalbard. climate change will lead to changes in the arctic landscape and will uncover new resources. in addition, new maritime routes will appear in the region, which will affect the major economic interests of all the signatories of the svalbard treaty. colleagues, if you fail to arrive at a sustainable agreement with norway on snow crabs we are going to have much more important disputes with norway and other signatories of the svalbard treaty, like the united kingdom and japan, for example. a lot has changed since 1920 when the treaty was signed, and the time has come to create new arrangements. in many aspects, norway is closely integrated into eu policies. despite not being a member state of the eu, norway is a part of the eu variable geometry and represents many characteristics we require from our european member states. losing this balance would mean jeopardising the close partnership and relations constructed during the last decades. the eu urgently needs an agreement with oslo on a specific legislative scheme for snow crab fishing, otherwise strong confrontation will arise and others will take the eu’s position as an international trading partner. in addition, this situation calls into question the importance of the eu regulations in fisheries sectors. we cannot deprive our businesses of new opportunities related to snow crabs just because our legislative framework is incomplete. the european commission must guarantee the legitimate rights of the member states granted licenses for fishing snow crab in svalbard waters. the situation where eu vessels stay in ports out of fear of being arrested is unacceptable. (the speaker continues in latvian) 2017. gada janvārī saistībā ar sniega krabju zveju norvēģijas teritoriālās svalbāras (špicbergenas) ūdeņos arestēts latvijas zvejas kuģis “senators”. arests pārkāpj 1980. gadā apstiprināto eiropas un norvēģijas vienošanos par zvejniecību. turklāt norvēģijas valdība ir pārkāpusi nediskriminēšanas principus, kuri minēti parīzes 1920. gada līgumā. saskaņā ar 1920. gada špicbergenas vienošanos arhipelāgs atrodas norvēģu suverenitātes zonā, tomēr valstis, kuras parakstījušas vienošanos, ir tiesīgas izmantot dabas resursus, tostarp arī tos, kas atrodas teritoriālajos ūdeņos. eiropas savienība nav veikusi nekādus pasākumus sakarā ar latvijas kuģa arestu un nepievērš lietai praktiski nekādu uzmanību. latvijas krabju ķērāju zaudējumi sasniedz ap 100 miljoniem euro, un kopā ar nesaņemto peļņu tie ir mērāmi aptuveni ap 200 miljonos euro. latvijas minētais precedents ir ieguvis arī diplomātisku nokrāsu. esam nonākuši pie tā, ka norvēģi uzskata latvijas zvejniekus par maluzvejniekiem, bet mūsējie norvēģus — par pirātiem. man ir ļoti žēl, kolēģi, ka eiropas komisijas neiesaistīšanās dēļ šīs problēmas risināšana starp latviju un norvēģiju notika divpusējā kārtībā un tikai aiz slēgtām durvīm. norvēģijas pozīcija ir izskaidrojama ar bažām, ka neierobežota sniega krabju zvejniecība špicbergenas ūdeņos var radīt precedentu, kas ļaus pēc tam ārzemju kompānijām patvaļīgi izmantot resursus. tomēr sniega krabju jautājums nav jāizskata kā spiediena mēģinājums uz norvēģiju. eiropas savienībai ir jāieņem stingra pozīcija un jāaizstāv eiropas zvejnieki no turpmākiem zaudējumiem, un ir jāgarantē norvēģijai, ka tālāka resursu ieguve tiks saskaņota atsevišķas vienošanās ietvaros. mr president, this is a question of our external and internal credibility. now it’s time to start negotiations with norway. if we do not agree about snow crabs now, it will be extremely difficult to arrive at a beneficial agreement on the eu’s resources. dear members of this parliament, by pretending not to see the gravity of this problem we undermine our own interests. thank you for keeping this in mind in further contacts with norway.
mr president, dear commissioner, unfortunately the situation is not only about snow crabs and our relationship with norway. it is about something more. it is about european citizens’ trust in the european commission and institutions; it is about jobs, and it is about money. i understand that we are involved in a big legal battle with norway, and i believe that we can find enough good lawyers to win this battle. if we cannot we can fire the existing ones and find better ones. in the meantime, our fishermen are losing jobs and money, and the small latvian company which owns the ship, which has been held for more than a year now, has incurred direct losses of more than eur 2 million. this undermines our trust, and the trust of our citizens, in the european commission’s work and the european union. for a long time now, they have been unable to solve this issue or implement their promises. if we are, through our regulation, giving a permit for licenses we should implement this law and abide by it. while you are waging these battles and trying to find a pragmatic solution, you also have to find the courage to pay money and compensation to these fishermen. we will sort out who will ultimately pay whom afterwards. however, besides the legal issues, there is also the necessity of covering those expenses which people are seeing every minute, hour and year. this is the commission’s mandate: you have to pay for that. (the speaker did not agree to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8) from andrejs mamikins)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on 23 january this year, the government of the republic of latvia cabinet adopted amendments to the education act. these amendments actually provide for the closure of secondary education in national minority languages and, as of the 20/21 academic year, provide for secondary education in latvia only in latvian. ladies and gentlemen, the official motto of the european union is 'united in diversity'. diversity is our wealth. this year the republic of latvia, my country, celebrates the centenary of its proclamation and founding, and before the war latvia was a really outstanding example of democracy, when the state, imagine a college, guaranteed secondary education in eight minority languages. ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to preserve secondary education in national minority languages, let us be active, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be silent here in the european parliament. thank you.
madam president, the creation of transnational lists would be a sign of a more united europe, but let us not stick to appearances. first, we need a pan-european social policy, a pan-european fiscal policy and a pan-european vision of our foreign policy. do we want to show our citizens that the european parliament has a real european dimension? yes, we do, but in order to be credible we must show a european dimension in their everyday lives. look at the turnout at the last european elections. there was a decrease of 20% compared with the first elections in 1979. last time it was only 42% across the eu. will transnational lists change that figure? will they give our citizens more trust in the eu as a whole? that is what we have to ask ourselves before we work for the new electoral proposal. we have to ask ourselves another question too, colleagues. how will the electoral campaigns of this new pan-european constituency be financed and are we really sure we are able to guarantee democratic oversight of this financing? when we have sensibly answered these questions, and when we start a real discussion, we will also have to start the discussion in our national parliaments.
madam president, i sincerely welcome the resolution drafted by our colleague vilija blinkevičiūtė. according to estimations, every year 180 000 girls and women are at risk of female genital mutilation (fgm) in the eu. i underline, colleagues: in the eu. unfortunately, from the legal point of view, fgm still remains in a grey zone. the crime is under—reported, under—investigated and under—prosecuted in europe. fgm is a serious human rights violation. we are used to reporting and condemning similar human rights abuses in foreign countries, but now we are faced with it in our home in europe, and our national legislation must accept this challenge and finally adopt efficient legal ways of combating this crime. parliament has already adopted several resolutions and i sincerely hope that this new report will make a change and bring new impetus to combating all forms of this violence. for this reason, i voted in favour of the motion.
for the ecr group madam president and madam commissioner! this is without doubt the most important question of the six months here in strasbourg, of course, why? because it's very popular and a lot of people are interested in it, and it could be used as a pre-voting item in the 2019 spring election. i am very surprised that the committee on transport has tabled this resolution, because the study that was organised in the european parliament does not show any impact on transport, and the commission has no study to characterise transport costs from this time change. i also really liked, even surprised, that mr. swoboda mentioned that changing one hour has such a huge impact on health. we who travel from latvia, for example, for one hour each week to the european parliament are in a constant state of jet lag. i would therefore urge you to keep your sanity and either do the right research and then talk about this issue, as several members have suggested in this resolution, or to end this issue.
mr president, as we all know, turkey is becoming less and less respectful of human rights. at the same time it is becoming a more and more important regional power and its every political move may have severe repercussions on security in europe. erdoğan is able to justify any human rights repressions and the use of brutal force as a pretext for fighting terrorism and the desire for revenge for the failed attempted coup in 2016. this strategy means that we are probably going to see even more crackdowns on civil society in the months to come. what is even more worrying is that the international community is going to have less information on what really happens in turkey. i have a journalistic background and i can personally testify to the crucial importance of free mass media in a country’s political trajectory. current persecutions, jailing and physical attacks on journalists is unacceptable. that is why i voted in favour and sincerely hope that corresponding political decisions by the member states will follow.
mr president, colleagues, in dealing with the issues that closely touch the everyday lives of european citizens, we have to stick to the evidence-based approach. the research that has so far been produced by the european commission has shown that the summer-time change has very little impact on a person’s well-being. in addition to energy savings, it provides major opportunities for evening activities. certainly we should encourage further research into this topic to find new evidence. if the need to stop changing the clocks is underpinned by the national governments, there will be a reason for us to consider adopting a relevant regulation. otherwise, if this issue is not a priority for citizens or for the governments and would not bring meaningful benefits to the internal market, what is the reason for adopting new measures here in the european parliament? personally, colleagues, i’m not convinced so far about the need to change the current arrangements and i therefore voted against the resolution calling for the summer-time clock change to be stopped.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, while the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap) is an ambitious and game—changing project that can contribute to the eu’s efforts in decarbonising the economy and introducing environment friendly energy supply, it faces several criticisms, and not without reason. the trans-adriatic pipeline has so far encountered more obstacles than approvals. at least two investigations have been conducted on it, one about connections between the tap project and italian organised-crime groups and offshore capital, and the other about a tacit political and economic arrangement between erdoğan, aliyev and russian oligarchic groups. certainly these are issues that have to be addressed by their national governments. however, the trans-adriatic pipeline is a project we need. it will facilitate gas supply not only to italy, bulgaria and croatia but also to several western balkan countries, including albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia. in the context of the current western balkan enlargement strategy, that has a specific value. tap will create a stronger bond between this region and the eu and consequently improve our energy harmonisation. in addition, multiple opportunities will appear for the transport of caspian natural gas to some of the largest european markets, such as germany, france and austria. if we are bound to build greater energy security in the eu, tap will certainly make a great contribution – and, more than that, tap means major economic development and job creation for all the countries concerned. however, while the tap corridor is a strategic priority for the italian economy and other partners, it represents a matter of concern to ordinary citizens. why? tourism activities represent a big share of income on the adriatic shore, and environmental security in this regard is a matter of great importance. such preoccupations have also frequently been raised by the authorities of puglia, who are very concerned about the conservation of their olive groves. in puglia they call olive oil the ‘green gold’ because it is the wealth of their region. digging up their olive trees may compromise local livelihoods. around 2 000 olive trees have to be removed and transplanted to make way for the pipeline, and the criticism raised by the head of the region, michele emiliano, is perfectly understandable. so how can we be sure that the trans-adriatic pipeline is in the interests of the private citizens who are actually paying for its construction? how can we guarantee that such large—scale projects are implemented with due democratic accountability to our citizens, and with thorough consultation with local authorities? the answer lies in democratic guarantees that the contracting governments have to give their citizens. we cannot apply the ‘business as usual’ tactic and present the project to the people as an accomplished fact. in this specific case, a lack of preliminary consultation has brought about delays in the project’s implementation because no substantial compromise had previously been reached. to tell the truth, there was no significant attempt to reach such a compromise. when we have to deal with such important initiatives, the eu must take the lead in filling the democratic gap. businesses are often not interested in asking the opinion of the families who will have to live beside their new installations. citizens need the certainty that tap does not carry any potentially high industrial risk, such as that of explosions. this is very important. citizens need to be asked. i repeat this again and again because, in today’s europe, where there is a desire to promote democratic consultation and accountability, respect for sustainability and the harmonious life of households, we cannot afford to let business be done only among the big players, while ordinary people stand looking on, without a say. that it is why it is very important to discuss this issue –very important even for my small country, among the baltic states, latvia. that is why we are discussing it here in parliament.
the blue card issue. i'm not going to let you go. thank you for your speech, but i don't really understand, are you, generally speaking, for or against this project, because i completely agree with you in the sense that the opinion of the people must be taken into account before we build something or make something, any decision. but yes or no, plus or minus, you're either for or against this project.
the blue card issue. thank you, mr. president, especially for the fact that you have endowed my personality with all kinds of gifts, but in reality the question i have is the same one i asked mrs. forenza, also mr. dzhambazki. i know you, mr. dzhambazki, as a very honest man and very serious when you decide on projects, you are for or against, in short, plus or minus, white or black.
mr president, if you do not maintain order at home, then you should not be surprised if your house is managed by strangers. this fully applies to the european banking union. two weeks ago, the us financial crimes enforcement network imposed sanctions on ablv bank, the third-largest bank in my country, latvia, by prohibiting it from opening and maintaining a correspondent account in the united states. ablv was under european central bank supervision. neither the latvian regulator nor the european central bank tried to check the accuracy of the charges. moreover, after the bank had such difficulties, they helped to push back into the edis. the bank was forced to announce self-liquidation. hundreds of latvians lost their jobs. dear colleagues, the authorities of another country can destroy large eu banks by a mere statement of suspicion. such a situation is unacceptable. the european union must protect its interests and the interests of european businesses. we need the european union and european banking as a real thing.
madam president, if we cannot protect our principles inside the eu we will lose the moral right to criticise non-eu countries’ decisions. we should create independent evaluation mechanisms and strengthen sanctions for violations of eu fundamental principles within the union. we have no choice. we have to understand whether we have common values or not. if not, the only possible decision is to dissolve the european union. if yes, we must establish discipline among member states and have the means to enforce it. therefore, i welcome this motion for a resolution and i hope such discipline will be consistently applied. it is only through consistency in our policies on fundamental rights that we can achieve legitimacy in the eyes of our eu citizens. i voted in favour.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the situation on fundamental rights in the eu in 2016. however, i would like to raise your attention to one thing: the rights of minorities in the eu are only a marginal topic in this report. i believe this is not a shortcoming of the report drafted by our colleague frank engel but rather a shortcoming of our policies. we actually do not have a real european approach to minorities, and we leave it to the discretion of member states to protect them, but in some member states minorities belong to really vulnerable groups. to give you one example, the russian-speaking minority in latvia is in decline due to emigration and to the negative birth rate. the death rate among russian speakers in latvia is much higher than the average in the country. the reasons for that are their unfavourable social conditions and the absence of rights for civil and political participation. these people are in a situation of total cultural insecurity and the reproduction of their identity is at high risk.
madam president, on saturday, 10 march, a protest rally was held in riga, the capital of latvia. five thousand participants expressed their deep concern regarding the decision of the latvian authorities to destroy the system of minority education. i promised to inform the eu institutions about this disaster. thirteen years ago, when latvia joined the eu, the latvian authorities agreed and incurred obligations to respect and protect national minorities. the recent decision to prohibit the use of minority languages as a tool of instruction in secondary schools is a flagrant violation of these basic principles of the eu. the russian—speaking minority of latvia comprises up to 40% of the population of the country. the ongoing destruction of russian minority schools undermines the peace and mutual confidence in the society. on behalf of my voters and on behalf of the russian minority in latvia, i ask the eu institutions to intervene in this situation and ensure the protection of human rights in latvia. let us say it together: stop killing minority schools.
madam president, there are two pieces of news: good and bad. the good news is that we can see rapid gdp growth in eastern europe, and the main reason for this growth is the contribution from eu funds. for example, in my country, latvia, the cohesion fund and other european funds give around 3% gdp growth annually. every eighth euro in the latvian state budget is foreign help, as my colleague, the newly-appointed member of the european parliament, mr mitrofanov, knows very well. the bad news is that the economies of eastern europe have become heavily dependent on this money. let us imagine that this money is not be available for a period after 2020. the reduction of cohesion fund spending might coincide with the next cyclical downturn in the world economy. this combination could lead to a very deep crisis in the economies of eastern eu countries. let’s think about it.
mr president, a third of the current eu budget is allocated to a financial instrument which supports cohesion policy, and we cannot allow this amount of money to be spent inefficiently. for this particular reason, i greatly welcome the report drafted by our colleague, ms giuffrida. my country, latvia, is one of the clear winners of eu cohesion policy. however, we need to reinforce its social dimension. social inclusion is crucial for the harmonious growth of the eu, and when i speak about inclusion i speak about minorities and vulnerable groups. they need to be given a role to play, and they need to have a voice at the political stage. they should benefit from eu policies too. on another role, the implementation of cohesion funds should not become a victim of politicisation. eu cohesion funds are not a vehicle for the european parties to achieve their short-term goals. nepotism, corruption and politically motivated appointments should be absolutely excluded from our cohesion projects.
my fellow citizens! i'm not going to let you go. this will be the first dfs where we first talk about what we want to do and then look for the means to do it. the most important thing for people is security, so we have to have the means to protect the external borders, to control them. the schengen area will then also function fully. additional funding must be found for youth programmes, science, small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. to strengthen our competitiveness. people want to live better throughout the european union, so cohesion policies need to balance the different levels of member states' economies. the infrastructure is key. the european union is also committed to the development of a european rail network. our future is an environmentally friendly and resource-efficient economy, so there is a particular focus on new technologies and research. the financing of the common agricultural policy by the member states is too different and efforts to close the gap need to continue, but to fill the gap created by brexit, member states' contributions need to be increased and new own resources accepted, while saving on administrative costs.
mr president, the european union strategy for central asia, which is currently under revision, must become a strong instrument for our foreign policy. the security challenges in this region are also our security challenges, and we need to work collectively against islamic radicalisation. among the five countries, only kazakhstan has an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, which includes strong provisions on security. i hope that in the near future we will be able to develop similar agreements with the remaining four countries. high representative ms mogherini, i know that during your last visit to samarkand you laid the basis for the creation of common counter-terrorism action, and we really appreciate your diplomatic efforts in this. indeed, there is no place for geopolitical competition when we speak about security—building, because china, russia and afghanistan all have a role to play in it, and i am sure today that you have enough diplomatic leverage to promote regional security cooperation.
in writing. us president donald trump's decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium imports is economic nationalism. it's a populist and wrong policy that will give trump support for a while in the grassroots, but it won't solve the economic issues, while creating a deep rift between the allies. this decision is a deliberate weakening of the international trading system, a dismantling of the world trade organisation and its rules. it will lead to the philosopher thomas hobbes's description of a global war against all. if europe is not given a suitable exception, it will have to respond with the same, which will further escalate the situation in an upward spiral. as a result, the initial political beneficiaries of the us-eu trade relationship will be china and russia. the situation with chinese aluminium and steel imports had to be addressed by the us together with europe and its allies. the rules of trade can be changed if necessary, but we cannot abandon them completely. the eu should now make a particular effort to strengthen rules-based trade, for example by ratifying agreements with japan and singapore.
mr president, the european union needs a stable financial environment. it is very regrettable that the enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax is shared only by 11 member states. this tax could raise eur 57 billion per year if implemented across the entire eu. this money could be dedicated to the personal and professional development of our citizens, resource the demographic revitalisation of our regions and substantially strengthen our social pillar. this report, which i voted in favour of, invites the commission to elaborate a new own resource for the union budget. this rhetoric is good; however, we need to be realistic, otherwise enhanced cooperation will remain our lowest common denominator. we need, first of all, to create real incentives for the member states to share more in order to get even more in return. without mutual trust in the financial sectors, we will not be able to go any further than the enhanced cooperation.
madam president, the conflict in syria is probably the most outrageous disaster we are confronted with. this resolution has a critical meaning not only for syrians and for the middle east region, but also for europe and the future security structure in the world. when we take a decision on syria with the scope to target assad’s regime, in practice, we make an impact on a very fragile regional framework that will determine our future safety. from this consideration, i voted against this resolution. the report in the way it has been drafted puts the eu on the side of the problem and not on the side of the solution. let us ask ourselves what concrete results we managed to achieve by introducing restrictive measures against syrian officials. is the eu really acquiring the face of diplomacy, and can we really call our approach inclusive and multilateral if we exclude big players such as russia or iran? that is why again and again, i voted against this resolution.
madam president, i would like to call on the members of the european parliament and the leadership of their countries to change their priorities. at the present moment, there is no more important global issue than the preservation of peace. mankind is balancing on the edge of war. in recent months, we have seen the excessive reaction of western countries to the poisoning of the former russian spy in the united kingdom. this was followed by the excessive military reply to the obscure case of the use of chemical weapons in syria. i am an ethnic russian and a latvian citizen. i am not going to judge whether either russia or the west is guilty in the recent aggravation. in my opinion, it is not a fruitful approach to look at who is guilty when the situation is developing in a fast and dangerous manner. but i may – and i have to – speak on behalf of my people, my voters: the residents of latvia. we live on the frontline between the west and russia – our people will suffer first and most dramatically if a war begins. we strongly ask the governments of the eu countries, the usa and russia to stop moving towards war. we ask the european parliament to play a more active role in the de—escalation of the conflict between the west and russia. let us give the globe a chance.
in writing. as french president emmanuel macron has said, we, the european union, are the model of liberal democracy in many parts of the world. it is liberal democracy, whose need is currently being questioned by many, that is at the heart of our european identity. we must stop ignoring the lessons of the past. we need to be proactive, to listen to citizens' concerns and to respond to them. the president's speech touches on the eu budget after the uk's withdrawal. we have heard that france is ready to increase its contribution to the eu budget, which is positive, but it must be understood that the president's aim is to link the budget to his new proposals and to french priorities, but it is important to remember that the eu is other member states and the future of the eu is possible by balancing the interests of all countries in the name of a common goal. the proposal for better eu cooperation in the field of security and defence, which is the main priority in europe at the moment, is welcome. i also support the proposal to tax the giant tech companies, even if they pay a fair share of the profits they make in europe. the proposal to create a common eu fund for the reception of refugees is questionable, as this is a matter of national importance that cannot be decided centrally without respecting the reception and integration capacity of each country. europe needs leaders who are resourceful and decisive today. the french president is perhaps, for the time being, the only real eu leader with a clear vision for the future of the eu, even if not all of his ideas are acceptable to us.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european parliament has repeatedly called for a realistic and responsible strategy for the eu’s relations with russia that must be based on the principle of credible deterrence. the recent use of chemical weapons on european soil and in syria, the continuous war against ukraine and attacks in cyberspace have once again reaffirmed the need to deter further aggressive actions by russia. while i welcome the readiness for new sanctions on syrians linked to the 7 april gas attack, it would only be logical to extend similar measures to their russian patrons. i believe that it is necessary to make the kremlin pay a higher price for its actions by designing and implementing comprehensive measures in the areas of finances, technology and energy. we also have to target further those individuals who are responsible for the breaches of international law and also those billionaires from putin’s inner circle who participate, finance or manage the regime’s dirty interventions abroad. as we are witnessing the space for independent political voices shrinking, and decreasing respect for human rights in russia, a magnitsky list at eu level must be an appropriate response to the continuous human rights violations.
the rapporteur. the president of the court of justice! thieves like the dark. if someone has set out to rob an apartment, he or they will likely wait for night, for darkness, when they can break into your property unwittingly and take what they need. similarly, people who want to legalize illegally obtained funds (i'm talking about so-called money launderers) also love this kind of darkness, and this darkness in the financial world is called anonymity. if we want to tackle money laundering, if we want to tackle money laundering in the european banking system, we have to tackle this anonymity. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what we have done with this directive. here i must first of all thank judith sargentini for her very good cooperation over several years in both the drafting of the fourth and the drafting of the fifth directives. as well as to the other colleagues with whom i have had the honour and pleasure of working, and of course to the council of the eu, the representatives of the member states, with whom we have worked through a rather lengthy and rather complex process to reach a good result. and what is behind this result? we have developed a number of, you could say, weapons that will help to prevent the risk of money laundering in the european financial banking sector. first, we have a register of beneficial owners, which shows the names of the owners of the companies, the names of the people behind the companies, and this register will be fully public in the future. similarly, we have established a register of beneficial owners of trusts. we also have a register of bank account holders within the european union and a register of bank safe deposit box holders within the european union. it's all about letting banks know who their customers are, so that the journalist and the public can track who's behind which company, so that they can make sure that the money flowing through european banks is a legitimate flow of money, that it's not money that could be used to finance terrorism, among other things. in this directive, we have envisaged one innovation that is being tried out in europe for the first time - that is the regulation of cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin and other popular cryptocurrencies. what's the challenge? the challenge is that these currencies, which exist only in the online environment, are by definition completely anonymous. and how do you deal with that, because of course, criminal criminals can also use this system to fund terrorism, among other things. it is designed to make the service provider who helps convert bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency into either euro currency or real estate or otherwise sell it within the european union subject to the same requirements as bank representatives to know who their client is and to make sure that this money, this cryptocurrency's origin is really legal, that it cannot be used to anonymously finance terrorism. so in europe, if we have a challenge in the fight against terrorism, if we have a challenge in the fight against money laundering, our remedy is the fight against anonymity. we have incorporated this very successfully in this directive. let us support, colleagues, the new anti-money laundering directive in the vote tomorrow!
the rapporteur. - the chairman of the board. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is clear that we must rid the european banking system of illicit money, of the possibility of using it in our banks or of erasing illicit money in an attempt to legalise it. but it is one thing to adopt a directive and another to implement it. i therefore ask you, madam commissioner, and the whole european commission, as the legal overseer, to ensure that this directive is actually implemented in the member states, so that it is not the case that most member states do not introduce the directive. because this system and all the registers will only work if they are really set up in all the member states, this information will be available and the anonymity of criminals in europe will no longer be possible. i therefore not only call for a vote in the plenary to implement the directive, but also, in particular, for the commission to see that it is actually implemented in the member states and that the system really starts to improve.
madam president, i strongly support the resolution, in particular its call for the highest level of protection for investigative journalists and whistle-blowers. as a journalist and a member of the european parliament, and also as a citizen of latvia, a state where serious investigative journalism is lacking, i am sure that we must, and can, do more for our journalists. speaking about disinformation and fake news in this house, we have repeatedly stated the need to stimulate critical thinking and media literacy among our citizens. they have the right to be more demanding and to call for investigations. ján kuciak did crucial work on large-scale tax evasion scandals, tax fraud, corruption and money-laundering, and it is regrettable that the simple duty of a journalist requires extraordinary courage, even in the eu. it is the corrupted politicians that should be afraid of journalists, not vice versa. if our journalists operate in a climate of intimidation and fear we shall have weak and toothless journalism and, as a result, a weak civil society.
mr president, the success of the european project has made us think that the values in our treaties are both exceptional and universal. however, with time we have to realise that not only our normative transformation power is limited, but that even at home our democracy is suffering. we do not have the responsibility to democratise each and every partner, and there is no such thing as ‘democrat international’, but it is true that we need to have a functional democracy within the eu. therefore i suggest that the european values instrument should not only finance ngos, it should also provide monitoring and scrutiny on the ground. be sure that we will discover many uncomfortable truths about us. one such truth is the deprivation of the political and civil rights of the so-called ‘non-citizens’ of latvia and estonia, who are also restricted in their social and economic rights. attention, colleagues: in the case of latvia we are speaking of almost 20% of the population. such discrimination creates a divided society and the consequences bring security risks. if we wish to call eu countries ‘strong democracies’, we have at least to end a phenomenon of forced statelessness within our borders.
madam president, i support the call to reinforce the social dimension in the european higher education area. education should not be a luxury, but it has to be inclusive to the maximum degree. inclusiveness and equal access are the keys to guaranteeing social justice in the european union. the bologna process has brought significant mobility and offered many chances to students and researchers, making european universities the best performers in many sectors, but it still has its limits. in its current form the bologna process does not really create a platform for social debate on education across europe. the fact that the eu nation-states adopt their language policies in education without any scrutiny from the eu can lead to highly undemocratic practices. to give you an example, my home country, latvia, has recently become a victim of disproportionate education reform, doing away, de facto, with education in minority languages. what i expect from the bologna process is major engagement with stakeholders and a closer look at the problems on the ground.
the blue card issue. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for accepting my question on the blue card. as we know, china is now facing enormous competition from europe in shipbuilding as a country and from the chinese shipbuilding sector. do you see any possibility in the near future for the european shipbuilding industry to compete effectively with the chinese shipbuilding industry?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today europe is still a major player in the global shipbuilding industry. however, low demand in shipbuilding production is expected in europe in the next 10 years. this means that this industry will face serious challenges. as far as i can see, there are few of us here in the plenary but the topic doesn’t become less important because of that. the eu is a maritime power and we need to consider all the benefits and perspectives of this sector. our european project is unique and makes our neighbours wonder about how we ensure such a stable regulatory framework. but we need to keep in mind that the eu is not only about norms and regulations. it is about geopolitics too. the maritime industry still belongs, to a large extent, to power politics. to be a post-modern power in the world of modern nation-states requires us to be geopolitical players too. the study produced on behalf of the european commission by balance technology consulting shows that the well-being of the european shipbuilding sector has not only economic but also political, security-related and environmental implications for the european union. this is why today europe needs a pragmatic and visionary approach towards its shipbuilding. the wise decision has been taken in europe in recent years to concentrate shipbuilding industry on special high-tech and high-value ships. high technology is going to give us major competitive advantages and take our shipbuilding industry out of yesterday’s world. but we should bear in mind that china also has the political objective of entering the high-tech ship market. it means that we need to think of the next steps to preserve our competitive advantage. in the absence of effective global trade rules we absolutely need a european umbrella to protect our shipbuilders who otherwise will struggle more and more every year. the shipbuilding market remains dollar-based, and that means that we have to protect this industry in europe from financial imbalances and ensure a fair treatment for our producers. a strong shipbuilding industry also contributes to the new maritime security policies, the eu maritime security strategy, eu arctic policies and eu naval missions. the eu member states certainly have strong economic or strategic maritime interests. therefore, they are reluctant to transfer more competences in this field to the commission. but if we are to compete with the world’s major maritime powers we need to pool resources and adopt a common action. brexit will undermine our maritime power to a certain extent, but it can also give us an impetus to go faster in building a common maritime policy. another reason why we need an effective industrial strategy in the maritime sector is environmental concerns. the eu has an image of the most progressive power in terms of environmental regulation and it should also uphold this principle in its maritime trade relations. this will also contribute to our efforts in promoting environmental standards. furthermore, climate change is going to uncover new maritime routes in the arctic region. it will enable much faster transportation from europe and africa to asia, rather than today when the ships pass through the middle east and south asia. current routes will be abandoned as being slower, more expensive and more dangerous. this will immediately shift the competition to the north and to the arctic region. you have to think about it already today and start to develop new technologies for the new ships able to operate in zones of the extreme north. colleagues, i also belong to a maritime country. speaking about the shipbuilding industry in latvia i need to say that our major current challenges in the shipbuilding sector are the development of workers’ skills and the improvement of the marketing system. thanks to the historical roots and old traditions of the shipbuilding sector, latvia conserves its respected position amongst the world’s maritime power, which has been guaranteed by the introduction of some advanced materials, new manufacturing technologies and new designs. but such innovations are not enough to keep latvian shipbuilding in good economic conditions, especially considering the slowdown of demand in europe. today’s shipbuilding sector is in part a knowledge-based economy, and i think that the latvian government has to officially state it will adopt a truly european approach to ensure the development of shipbuilding and the welfare of workers.
the blue card issue. thank you very much, mr. dzhambacki, for accepting my blue card question! my country, latvia, joined the european union in 2004. bulgaria joined later in 2007 together with romania. in my country, there are things that we have lost in the shipping industry and the shipbuilding sector, objectively speaking, but there are many things that we have gained for our industry, our needs, our people and our business as a whole. how is your country? what have you gained and lost during this time?
the european investment bank is an important instrument for achieving our economic development objectives in the european union. one of the operational aspects, namely the european fund for strategic investments. overall, the fund has been successful, the initial three-year period has been extended, but i think that both the european investment bank as a whole and the strategic investment fund still need to focus more on cohesion policy objectives. what did we hear today in the budget debate? the multiannual financial framework therefore provides for a 7% reduction for cohesion purposes. the european investment bank is the instrument we could use to achieve these goals, but when we look at the overall lending to projects within the european union, five countries - spain, italy, france, germany and the united kingdom - have received 55%, while the funds for the baltic states, for example, have even been reduced slightly. of course we need very high quality infrastructure (i think that is one of the main objectives), as well as small and mediumsized enterprises, and in general we need to focus much more on technical assistance, which is particularly important for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that children in migration are vulnerable to all kinds of trauma and they struggle in many spheres of life, but their rights are undeniable and equal. migrant children have the same rights as our children. i call on the european commission to take steps to ensure that the identification of children upon their arrival in the eu occurs as soon as possible. it is unacceptable that children should stay in the limbo of detention for years awaiting refugee status. the process of getting asylum must be as quick as possible for them. researchers on the ground tell us that the main problem is not the lack of a strong legislative framework to protect these children. the problem is the implementation of the rules. if we need more trained staff to work with migrant children, we must train them. if we need new facilities for their accommodation, we must create them. if we need to overcome the reluctance of local people to accept the children, we must lead awareness campaigns.
mr president, we often talk here about the deficit of democracy in the european union. usually, we speak about the european citizens; they do not want to take part in the european elections and blablabla. but 12% of the population of latvia don’t have the possibility to vote in any elections. by this i mean people with the special status of former ussr citizens who are not citizens of latvia or any other state; in short, non-citizens of latvia. the soviet union collapsed more than a quarter of a century ago, but people with the official status of former ussr citizens still live and continue to be born in the european union. many of the non-citizens of latvia were born in latvia. they lived there for generations – for a quarter of a century in latvia. these people could not vote in the local parliamentary or european parliament elections. dear colleagues, let us give them the possibility at least to vote in the european parliamentary elections.
madam president, as we know, the early presidential election in venezuela called by the internationally non—recognised national constituent assembly and endorsed by the national electoral council are now to be held on 20 may this year. in order to make the election process clear and have a successful result, it is necessary to find a compromise and reach an agreement between the two competing sides, because only their cooperation would enable a synergy to be reached and stabilise the country. as a member of the european parliament, i would also like to stress that only an objective assessment and an adequate and impartial view on the situation can solve the current problem, which has appeared in this state. we should not rely on our personal fellow feelings and give an advantage or preference to one side or another. we – i mean europe – should be an example of independent representation, making objectivity the main criteria for our assessment concerning this country.
madam president, the global ban on animal testing for cosmetics is one of the battles successfully led by my political group, the socialists and democrats. the s&d was at the forefront of this issue in 2004 when the european union stopped the testing of finished cosmetic products, and we were also there when the ban on the importation and sale of any such cosmetics was introduced. however, around 80 countries still allow the testing of cosmetics and toiletries on animals. causing pain to animals is a great cruelty. we must help our international partners to eliminate this culture of cruelty from their societies. that is important, and it is important that both the un and member states promote a cruelty—free approach in their bilateral trade relations. i voted in favour.
madam president, the faces of the criminals are more familiar to us than the faces of journalists. don’t you find this unjust? in the times of fake news and mis-information, journalists must be our new heroes. this is exactly the message that can be seen between the lines of this excellent report to which i have had the honour to contribute with amendments – and not only because i am a former journalist, but because we need to support traditional media. i voted in favour. it is dangerous for our democracy that political information migrates more and more to the domain of facebook and twitter, and that is why i particularly welcome the call on the commission to present a new mechanism on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. it should be based on concrete criteria.
in writing. – the strategic report represents the ep’s position on the cap’s future ahead of the presentation by the commission of legislative proposals, expected 1 june. the compromise of the last cap reform was not satisfying yet with the new proposals, we have to go further now. it is important to ensure a level playing field and equal competition conditions for farmers across the eu single market. hence, the baltic states insist on convergence of the direct payments despite brexit and the new eu priorities like defence and migration. the direct payments for the baltic states’ farmers are still among the lowest in the eu and remain considerably below the european average. this is not just and sustainable, given that we face almost the same costs and challenges across europe. let us change that! i support the epp lead report which calls for the future cap to retain funding at least at current levels and for fair distribution of direct payments between ms, is against renationalisation and for the maintenance of the two-pillar structure; any new model for implementing the cap must maintain a level-playing field within the sm, respect the different competences within ms and entail genuine simplification for farmers.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. europe is competing on the world market. and it is therefore entirely right that the next multiannual budget should provide for a substantial increase in european funding for science. because, of course, we can compete not with cheap labor, but with good, expensive, valuable inventions. but there is a challenge! at present, eastern european countries receive only about 3% of all science funding. three percent of the time! 97% go to the richest europe. my colleagues, eastern european countries are poorer than western european countries, but their scientists are no less educated. so, by investing more in science, we need to change that greed, so that eastern european scientists can work from home, so that they don't have to go to a wealthier country. let's fix this mistake by giving more money to science!
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament for their interventions. dear members of parliament, i started my intervention by highlighting the importance that this text has for workers, for companies and, ultimately, for european citizens. once adopted by this house and the council, this text will ensure fair labour mobility and, together with the enforcement directive, will contribute to strengthening the cross-border provision of services. i told you that this directive is necessary to preserve the internal market. this is not about needless administrative burden for companies. nothing in the revised rules requires companies to change their treatment of business trips. it is about ensuring equal pay for work carried out when companies provide a service cross-border, so that posted workers are paid according to the same rules as local workers and companies benefit from a level playing field. dear members of parliament, labour mobility is a good thing. free movement is the right that european citizens cherish most, but it must be organised. the internal market cannot be a jungle but needs clear, fair and enforceable rules. today you have the chance to allow us to take an important step further in this direction. please do not miss the chance. citizens expect us to act.
in writing. i do not consider this directive to be a uniquely valuable step. while the directive contains reasonable rules, such as that an employer cannot charge an employee for travel and subsistence expenses while the employee is posted to another eu country, the requirement to align wages to local wages will in fact limit the competitiveness of 'new' european companies in 'old' europe. as a result, this well-meaning administrative step towards fairer pay is really looking like an attempt by individual countries to protect their service providers and workers. this practically limits the free market in labour. for example, a latvian company that has won a tender in germany because it was able to offer a better price, also thanks to lower labour costs and high quality, will no longer be able to do so because this company with latvian income and profits in latvia will have to pay a german level of remuneration. these are two completely different categories, which will make this latvian company unable to compete in germany.
mr president, the common agricultural policy should be truly common. when i say this i do not only mean further integration and harmonisation of the rules, but also that the european commission should overcome the silo approach. agriculture is also part of our development and cohesion, commerce and international trade. this is why i am very glad the report includes the opinions of numerous parliamentary committees. i wish the european commission had a similar holistic approach to the goal of achieving the revitalisation of our farms. we must make farming attractive to young people. in recent years there has been an extreme decrease in the share of young people in rural areas. personally, i am particularly worried about this negative trend in latvia. the poor quality of professional education is a big obstacle. in addition, agriculture is considered to be low prestige and inferior to other sectors, and our young farmers do not feel that they have priority in public support programmes. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, the way of lawmaking in the eu is known to be highly complex and slow. this is one of the things our international partners notice with regret. at the same time, our legislation is the most inclusive and most respectful of the will of our citizens, and we need our people to know that their voices have been heard. we organise consultations and collect opinions before the legislative process, but we lack the citizens’ assessment during the implementation. for this reason, i welcome the call for a dedicated joint database on the state of play on legislative files. transparency must be our key word and efficiency must be our testing criteria. we need a politically intelligent approach to gain the support of our people for the laws we do. our laws must be something that these people can be proud of, and i am convinced that our s&d group is politically and ideologically equipped to lead such a battle. if we want to have well-informed and supportive eu voters tomorrow, we need to share more information with them and get more feedback from them.
mr president, our common commercial policy is the main instrument to fight against the challenges of globalisation. in a context where china and the us rearrange the trade order according to their individual agenda, we need to be stronger and more united. the withdrawal of the usa from the international trade and multilateral system is a threat to democracy. we need to create commercial security mechanisms to protect our businesses and industries from such shifts. i appreciate the spirit of this report and the assessment of the achievements that have been made, and i have of course voted in favour. i regret, however, seeing that european companies are not making sufficient use of the benefits available under free-trade areas. the reason for this is lack of open data and expert support. this is why i support the call to make the implementation of the common commercial policy more transparent, particularly during the negotiation of trade agreements.
for the ecr group mr president, honourable member of the council and commissioner! who really arranged for the issuing of so-called schengen golden visas or temporary residence permits or passports in these countries? it is usually occupied by a relatively narrow circle of people connected with the financial world in these countries, although with real estate development, and they actually earn excess value excess value that does not belong to them because they are sold not only for the sake of property investment, but also for entry into the schengen area or the british commonwealth. and this is what many people in this building like, the classic marx, who calls it surplus value, meaning the value of a thing, which doesn't really belong to these entrepreneurs. the investors who come into the european union with these, being both owners of this money and often just agents or agents, do not come with pure intentions. and all of this is promoting both money laundering and corruption in the european union, and all of these processes in between are not welcome in the european union. there are special cases where you sell your citizenship. it not only changes the perception of european union citizenship as such, as a value, but actually puts us in a situation where we suddenly find out that there are maltese or cypriot citizens who are actually on us sanctions lists and who are causing us problems, even when they are doing business in another eu country. and finally, whether we like it or not, i think the united states has more influence in this case on the processes in the european union and is cleaning us out of unwanted money than the european union has in both latvia, my country, and cyprus.
for the group verts/ale. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. this time i will speak in latvian and express my opinion more than the opinion of the group. tomorrow we will vote on the report on the implementation of the european union youth strategy, and tomorrow, 1 june, we will celebrate international day for the protection of children. maybe it's a coincidence, maybe it's not, but on june 2nd, a mass march will be held in riga, the capital of latvia, to celebrate international children's day. i'll be in on it. we are going to protest against the decision of the latvian ruling party to prohibit the children of the latvian minority from studying in their native language in secondary schools. access to and quality of education are crucial prerequisites for a successful youth strategy in the european union. the report on the implementation of the european union youth strategy states that the socioeconomic crisis that has continued in europe since 2008 is most affecting disadvantaged groups such as ethnic minorities, who face barriers to entering the labour market and to accessing culture, social services and education. the new report also builds on the principles of the resolution of 19 january 2016 on the role of cultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the fundamental values of the european union. i can safely say that by destroying the education system of minorities, the latvian ruling party is acting against the spirit of the european union. thank you for your attention.
mr president, when i heard the story of noura hussein hammad, i was deeply hurt because it is not only her who has suffered such cruelty; this cruelty is part of society in sudan. our resolution may raise awareness among some of the officials there and may bring to light the atrocities of women’s lives in sudan, but it will barely diminish the culture of cruelty. hussein, a girl only 16 years old, suffered too many atrocities inflicted by society, to become a martyr. there is no honour in honour crimes. hussein suffered extreme loneliness as nobody, not even her family, protected her. what we must do is to show our solidarity and provide assistance to such women in muslim countries. the culture of cruelty is not a fate. we can change it with difficulty, but still we can make a small change by giving a voice and a face to such victims.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is important to understand that, in any aid emergency, there is a risk of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation and the abuse of somebody who is in need of assistance. we are gravely concerned that the culture of silence, intimidation and abuse will continue as soon as the media spotlight on this issue begins to dim. the european union should reconsider funding for oxfam, one of the largest charity organisations providing assistance in natural disasters, after reports that some of its employees paid for sex while on a mission to assist after the devastating earthquake in 2010. while the un claims to have had no knowledge of the abusive exploitation of syrian women, it has been as an ongoing issue for years. it was first reported three years ago by danielle spencer, a humanitarian adviser. spencer was informed about the allegation by syrian women in a refugee camp in jordan. women and girls need to be protected when they are trying to receive food and basic items to live. the last thing you need is a man who you were supposed to trust and supposed to be receiving aid from asking you to have sex with him and withholding aid from you. the ongoing abuse can no longer be ignored. it is horrible enough that these women have to rely on international aid for survival. but for them to fear this aid is unacceptable. action must be taken to prevent the sexual exploitation of syrian women and girls. in june 2015, the international rescue committee surveyed 190 women and girls from the area and found that 40% had experienced an act of sexual violence when seeking supplies at a distribution centre. this is unacceptable, colleagues. this is unacceptable. staff who pay for sexual services are incompatible with the values and mission of the aid organisations. this is the real problem. it is systemic, large scale, and simply ugly. we have to fix it.
the blue card issue. - madam president, i have to go. mr kelly! i know that, compared to my country, latvia, ireland is much more progressive - i would say - in the fight against the sexual exploitation of women, especially when such heinous crimes are committed under the cover of charity. perhaps you could share your experience literally name the best thing you could possibly be proud of as an elected member of parliament from your country.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, although families all over the world have transformed greatly over the past decades, in terms of their structure and as a result of global trends and demographic changes, the united nations still recognises the family as a basic unit of society, and the international day of families which is observed by the un on 15 may every year is the best proof of that. i am convinced that, with time, everybody realises that the most important values, in life is family. no amount of money, clothes or even a good job can be compared with the family. only relatives and loved ones, with a smile on their faces communicating with us, can bring us true joy and happiness. only at home can we always show our true emotions and find moral support and practical advice. and the family is the main source of our inner soul power. in my opinion, every person’s success in life directly depends on the relations in his or her family. unfortunately, there are problems which families face every day: for example, poverty, lack of social support, and an absence of equal rights among family members. in a special risk category are such vulnerable social groups as young families, migrants, ethnic minorities, and families with persons with disabilities. to resolve these issues, the european union is developing an approach to family policies for inclusive societies. the main aim is to raise awareness of the role of families and family-oriented policies in achieving more inclusive societies. the primary emphasis is put on social inclusion and the protection of various types of families to facilitate their full inclusion in the mainstream of society. this can be achieved through implementing the following points: for example, firstly ensuring equal justice to all family members, especially women; secondly, providing universal birth registration and legal identity for all, especially targeting vulnerable families; and lastly, developing and promoting social protection. these are key points in order to save and support such things as cohesion, unity, empathy, integrity and solidarity.
the blue card issue. - madam president, i have to go. the good mr. kelly! i also have a grand opening tonight, i also have three children, and i know that the support for large families in latvia is not enough, what large families really need. perhaps you could share the irish experience. i know that in ireland, large families are especially valued and are given help from the state.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i will increase the number of languages used here so i will ask you to use the headphones, and also to symbolically extend the core of the european union, i will speak latvian. priekšsēdētāj! protams, nav nekāds jaunums, ka nacionālo politisko uzvaru dēļ eiropas savienība un citas dalībvalstis bieži vien tiek izmantotas kā ringa pretinieks, un pēc šīm saldajām uzvarām tiek kronēts nacionālais čempions. taču pēdējā laikā šī situācija sasniedz jaunu intensitāti, un uzvarām noder gan viesstrādnieku uzvaras — kaut gan īstenībā tie ir tikai pāris procentu no darbaspēka tirgus —, gan arī migrācijas jautājums un dublinas konvencijas pārskatīšana. tagad, gatavojoties padomes sēdei, es faktiski pieskaršos tikai pāris punktiem no eiropadomes dienas kārtības. pirmkārt, par migrāciju, dublinas pārskatīšanu un kvotām kā sastāvdaļu no tām. trīs gadu laikā, kopš eiropas komisija nāca klajā ar šo kvotu priekšlikumu, es domāju, ka visiem ir skaidrs, ka šī sistēma nevar un nevarēs strādāt arī nākotnē, jo faktiski migrantu un arī kontrabandas organizētāju kartē ir tikai dažas eiropas savienības dalībvalstis, kas ir galamērķis, kur šiem migrantiem nokļūt. visas pārējās valstis ir vai nu tranzītvalstis, vai tādas, kuras vispār nav kartē, kā, teiksim, tās valstis, kas ir pārāk nabadzīgas, lai tur kādreiz kāds vispār nokļūtu. teiksim, manā valstī, latvijā, tika uzbūvēts simts vietu migrācijai — labas, iekārtotas, — patversmes bāze, kura parasti ir aizpildīta labi, ja ar vienu trešdaļu. izpildot mūsu brīvprātīgās kvotas, cilvēki, kas tur nejauši nokļūst, pazūd ar dokumentiem vai bez dokumentiem jau burtiski nākošajās dienās. tas nozīmē, ka šāda sistēma faktiski nedarbojas, un mēs joprojām trīs gadu laikā neesam atraduši citus risinājumus. otrs jautājums — daudzgadu finanšu budžets, par ko arī tiks runāts padomē. manuprāt, ir ārkārtīgi svarīgi akcentēt to, ka eiropas komisijas priekšlikums, neskatoties uz brexit naudas iztrūkumu, tomēr rada lielākas iespējas kopumā šajā finanšu daļā, tajā pašā laikā ļoti mērķēts kohēzijas politikas samazinājums atkarībā no konkrētās dalībvalsts. šajā gadījumā kāda ziņa tā ir paaudzēm, kas ir jaunā paaudze šajās valstīs? mēs runājam par periodu no 2020. gada līdz 2027. gadam, kas faktiski nozīmē 10 gadu garumā daudzām jaunākām dalībvalstīm tā ir ziņa jaunajai paaudzei: “jums nākotne ir vēl sliktāka nekā pašlaik šajās dalībvalstīs, un tas nozīmē, ka jums ir jābrauc prom uz tām valstīm, kuras ir turīgākas, jo tām pat subsidēs darbvietas jaunatnes nodarbinātībai”. nav gan skaidrs, vai arī iebraucošajiem jauniešiem no citām valstīm vai tikai vietējiem jauniešiem. jāatceras tas, ka dažās valstīs t. s. universālā “universal income base” bāze ir augstāka nekā vidējā alga citās eiropas savienības dalībvalstīs, un visā šajā kopējā mērcē mums ir ļoti grūti uzrunāt eiropas savienības pilsoņus, ka ir kopīgas vērtības, kā timmermans kungs teica, ka ir kopīga vienota izpratne par eiropas vērtībām. ir grūti un gandrīz neiespējami paskaidrot šādu valstu, eiropas savienības valstu, pilsoņiem, ka tā ir.
mr president, during the war of august 2008, i was in georgia. tbilisi’s schools were turned into refuges for 200 000 people. i talked to the refugees and i visited the wounded. i met the human rights groups who documented the russian war crimes. i went to gori. in the almost deserted city, i stood next to a bombarded house and listened to an old man’s painful story about his neighbours who had been killed. at the ruins of the cadet school, an old woman asked me if i felt the smell of corpses. yes, i felt it. today south ossetia and abkhazia are still occupied territories and refugees have no place to return. the august 2008 war was a warning for europe which was not heard at the time. thus, we have to do everything to help georgia to cope with the consequences of the aggression. aggression in ukraine and the hybrid war against the west are now a reality. i hope we have learned from our mistakes.
mr president, i am deeply concerned about the situation in abkhazia and south ossetia and i am deeply concerned about the coercive eu measures inflicted upon these regions. the sanctions are having a direct negative impact. they lead to isolation and can lead the people of abkhazia and south ossetia to poverty, hopelessness and despair. in the meantime, the eu continues to issue resolutions. for 10 years already the eu has been issuing resolutions. we politicised the issue because we couldn’t resolve it, nor about negotiations nor by legal means. i suggest that we finally start seeing people on the ground, see the degradation and demographic collapse of south ossetia and abkhazia. why don’t we come up with a project aimed at regional development and cooperation? we could provide assistance to schools, we could equip hospitals and we could help the infrastructures. as the standing rapporteur on georgia in the committee on foreign affairs, i have nothing against resolutions, but let’s act. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to the blue card question. the president of the republic shall be elected by the members of the commission. i will answer in the official language of the free state of latvia. you must have confused the subject we're discussing. the current debate is about georgia and the occupied territories in georgia, not about your fantasy and what happened in history.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, our decision on the macro-financial assistance to ukraine is a message of strong continued support for a democratic and european ukraine. it is a message to the people of ukraine, to its government and also to russia. i admire the ukrainian civil society that has been the driving force behind many reforms in ukraine. i commend the women and men in ukraine’s public service who work hard on implementing these reforms. i encourage all the ukrainian politicians to follow through on their promises to fight and prevent corruption. the ukrainian people expect it and their patience is wearing thin. work hard not to repeat the mistakes of the past. i would also like to send a message to russia that building a democratic, strong and independent ukraine remains our strategic objective.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you for the rich debate and for the support expressed to the commission’s proposal to grant further macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the commission shares many of the concerns expressed here today about ukraine and its reform path. ukraine has made a lot of progress, but progress has also been uneven across areas, and a lot remains to be done in order to make reforms irreversible. this is precisely why the mfa is so important. it is an instrument for the eu to support reform-minded forces in ukraine and to continue to exercise eu leverage so that the still strong vested interests can be overcome. as i said during my opening remarks, if we turn our back on ukraine, the risk of reform reversals could be high, and a lot of the achievements that ukraine has without doubt made since 2014 would be at risk. our message to ukraine through this decision and the joint statement is crystal clear: solidarity goes hand in hand with a call for taking forward the reform drive with renewed vigour. one cannot go without the other. the eu committed to stand with the people of ukraine. we cannot let ukraine down and we cannot allow ukraine to fail. therefore, i count on your support tomorrow for the decision to grant further macro-financial assistance to ukraine without further amendments.
in writing. i consider that the european commission's proposal to grant macro-financial assistance to ukraine to reduce ukraine's current financial vulnerability is unequivocally to be supported. moreover, this eur 1 billion loan is conditional and directly contingent on the implementation of reforms in ukraine, including the reduction of corruption and the establishment of a dedicated anti-corruption court, thus providing indispensable support to ukraine in its path towards economic and democratic stability. latvia has always supported ukraine, because the stabilisation of south-eastern europe also contributes to latvia's security, so it is also in our country's strategic interests. unfortunately, the normandy group talks in berlin on 11 june, attended by german, french, russian and ukrainian ministers to discuss a possible peace process in ukraine, did not show any appreciable progress. however, even if the minsk agreements were respected, they would not provide immediate stability. the european union must therefore continue to support ukraine not only financially but also - and this is no less important - politically. we must not give up under any circumstances and we must realize that we still have a long way to go before the situation is resolved.
madam president, culture is one of the primary goods, and cultural access and participation are considered a priority issue at eu level. the current work plan for culture for the period 2015-2018 adopted by the european council in 2014 mentions assessable and inclusive culture as our top priority. however, nowadays we face several obstacles to cultural access and participation. there are not only structural and financial barriers to access, but also social and digital barriers, and by far the most important problem of educational barriers. to overcome these hurdles it is necessary to develop firstly public funding, then sustainable and long-term cultural tourism policy, then coordination of national cultural policies (i have to say), and digital education. and therefore i call, after the vote, on the european union within the sphere of its competence to develop and implement specific measures in order to guarantee access and participation in cultural life.
chairman of the board! my fellow citizens! as rapporteur here on the foreign affairs committee on georgia, i want to say that of course this resolution is a very important political milestone not only for georgia but for the whole world, that is clear. but what i really don't like about the text of the resolution and the way it was negotiated, which i actually said in the debate, is that we forget about the people. it's the same thing. who are our resolutions to, if not to the people, as they say, "on the ground" on the ground. for example, territorial integrity is an official position of the european parliament, the european commission, the european union. but if abkhazia and south ossetia are legally part of georgia, then we have to think about the people who live in abkhazia and south ossetia, because they are citizens of the georgian state. that's what we sometimes don't see here when we debate resolutions. it's an important document, but we have to move on.
madam president, i would like to stress that our main task as representatives of the european union is not to preach and sermonise to the african, caribbean and pacific group of states about how to build and govern their states, but to give them reliable support. in order to build strong partnership relations and bonds between the eu and the acp, we need to gain their trust and ensure that european companies do not violate the rights of the indigenous population of the acp. our political dialogue must be balanced and based on mutual respect and trust first of all. moreover, the renewed eu and acp cooperation and partnership should ensure more effective joint action to tackle the various challenges facing the world today, such as combating terrorism and, first of all, organised crime. i voted in favour, of course.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, israel is an excellent example of the successful implementation of horizon 2020. it certainly has its own big scientific and technical potential, and our programme may play a secondary role in the development of israeli knowledge—based industry. but for other countries in the european neighbourhood policy (enp), this programme may be essential. it can help to develop life-saving technologies and substances that the countries of the southern mediterranean especially need. i am happy that horizon was included in november 2017 as one of the parts of the ‘enp plus’ strategy. this will allow us to extend the areas where the interests of the eu and those of the enp countries overlap. in the case of israel, this programme enables it to, firstly, integrate with the european academic research community; secondly, cooperate with key players in europe; and thirdly, have access to research infrastructure and attention in order to have an influence on european norms. this is very attractive for our neighbours and profitable to us. certainly i find it one of the best successes of the eu’s normative power. we cooperate with our neighbours and allow them to have a say in development inside the eu. this is a unique situation. no other power in the world does it. i will continue in latvian, the language of my country. dažreiz mēs nereti dzirdam kritiskas atziņas pret izraēlu, par ko arī minēja godātais iztaujāšanas jautājuma autors, bet īstenībā izraēla ir viena no valstīm, kura varbūt ģeogrāfiski nav tā tuvākā eiropas savienībai, bet tuvākā mums, pēc mūsu vērtībām spriežot. jo izraēlā ir un izraēla balstās uz tām pašām demokrātijas vērtībām, uz ko balstās eiropas savienība. nevaru piekrist, ka cilvēktiesību pārkāpumi ir tik milzīgi, kā to minēja autors, īpaši attiecībā uz cietumniekiem. ko es ar to gribu teikt — izraēla ir valsts, kur ļoti uzmanīgi tiek ievēroti cilvēktiesību jautājumi. ņemot vērā konfliktu, kurš ilgst jau tik ilgi mūsdienu vēsturē, izraēla tomēr izmanto faktiski mūsu eiropas sistēmu, kā ievērot cilvēktiesības. dažreiz, runājot par manu politisko grupu — sociālistiem un demokrātiem, rodas iespaids, ka mums ir “pro-palestīniešu” pozīcija. daļēji tas ir fakts, jo mēs sadarbojamies aktīvi ar palestīniešu partijām, bet no otras puses, es gribu teikt, ka mēs ļoti augstu vērtējam to, ko izraēla dara, it īpaši — atkārtošu vēlreiz un vēlreiz — cilvēktiesību jomā. varu pieminēt, ka arī arābu valodai ir oficiālas valodas statuss izraēlā. tas ir svarīgi, runājot par manu valsti, latviju, kur dzīvo vēsturiski daudz nacionālo minoritāšu. un izraēlas piemērs, ne tikai runājot par horizon 2020, bet vispār, vērtējot to demokrātijas līmenī izraēlā, mēs daudz ko varam pamācīties no valsts iekārtas, no demokrātijas līmeņa, no parlamentārās demokrātijas, kas ir izraēlā. šī fona informācija mums jāņem vērā, kad runājam par tālāku sadarbību un it īpaši kaimiņattiecību politikas jomā. rezumējot manis iepriekš sacīto, es gribu teikt, ka mums ir lieliskas perspektīvas sadarbībai ar izraēlu ne tikai šajā jomā. izraēla ir valsts, kurai ir pietiekami ilgas demokrātijas tradīcijas, un pietiekami daudz bagāžas, ko izraēla ir sakrāvusi, runājot par demokrātiju un cilvēktiesībām. un es tiešām saredzu ļoti lielu perspektīvu šai sadarbībā.
the blue card issue. thank you, ryszard czarnecki, for accepting my request for a blue card. we know the difficult history that poland had, in terms of the jewish community in your country. we know the missing pages in history, which are in my country's history book in latvia, and what you said that we are changing here in the european union with regard to israel. do you see an element of anti-semitism in the attacks on israel at times?
, the question of the blue card. thank you, mr. schaffhauser, for accepting my blue card question. i have to say that it is one thing for the commissioner not to want to come to work, and another for transport and other problems to prevent him from getting to the european parliament in time, but that is the way it is. you said mr. schaffhauser about collaboration in science. i had the great opportunity, when i was a journalist, to ask shimon peres, the president of israel, and he said that science has no limits. where do you see opportunities for scientific cooperation with the eu and israel at the moment?
madam president, i greatly appreciate the proposals that are central in mr freund’s report and i want to congratulate him on this really good job. i am happy to see that one of the priorities of the 73rd united nations general assembly (unga) will be strengthening multilateralism. this is also the main goal of the european union. however, it is important that we have realistic expectations of this meeting. i believe that the eu needs to promote a rule-based order and binding commitments of the unga. only in such a way can we hope for improvements. just take the example of the deeply disappointing results of the european council last week. if we do not adopt binding measures, it means that our desire to reform the system is not sincere. i hope that in september the eu will be convincing in pushing forward the reform of the un security council because the eu needs a permanent seat there as one of the most foreign policy actors.
mr president, in the eu we continue to witness organised discrimination against many ethnic minorities. it is my duty to speak to you again about the shameful practice of discrimination against ethnic minorities in latvia. all the rules we make in this house affect these people directly, although they are never consulted. even in european elections they cannot vote and cannot hope for any political representation. the so—called ‘aliens’ amount to 12% of the population of latvia, my country, and these 12% are excluded from any consultation. until now, this anti—democratic practice has never been seriously discussed at governmental level in latvia so my only hope is that it can finally be addressed at european level. we need to find a way to enable these people to vote in european elections. there is no democracy which is not inclusive. if it is not inclusive, it is not a democracy.
mr president, we know that the committees have proportional representation from our political families. that is why the committee on transport and tourism, when we discussed it, we did it very substantially with a mandate of all the political groups. we took into account that there are rich and poor countries, and we took into account the high market areas in europe and the low market areas in europe, and we also know that some member states are tens of – and some are several thousand – kilometres from the high market areas. we did everything with a good understanding on a political level. for example, merja kyllönen is on the left side and i am on the right side, we have both been ministers of transport, and we took a reasonable compromise on all those issues. that is why i ask you to trust the tran committee – we did compromise very well on all three dossiers; nobody is completely 100% happy, but it is a good balance. please trust us as a committee, because the way the tran committee is working was developed over several years, and it is very cooperative, not seeing what kind of political views we have. at the same time, we would like to keep it as a package, and please don’t separate those issues. otherwise, we will have a cocktail of protectionism, a fragmentation of the single market in the haulage business, and have argumentation of so-called drivers’ social rights, which is often actually not true. so, please be serious at the vote tomorrow.
madam president, the european union is based on common values. among them is that of respect for all nations and minorities and equal treatment for all eu residents, regardless of their origin, native language or religion. for many decades, these principles promoted the peaceful coexistence of many peoples who had been mutual enemies in their recent past. now the atmosphere in europe is changing. the hate speech against minorities in a number of eu countries is no longer associated with marginal political radicals, but is becoming a part of the everyday rhetoric of mainstream politicians. i see this as the main problem. the starting point for today’s discussion was some xenophobic attacks by italian ruling politicians against the roma minority but there are also examples of hate speech from other countries. two months ago, kārlis šadurskis, the latvian minister for education, appealing to the latvian parliament, spoke about tolerance regarding minorities and then, and i quote the minister for education, said: ‘over-expressed tolerance and empathy [toward minorities] have been a threat to the latvian state, and we have to make every effort to eliminate this.’ however, jānis iesalnieks, the parliamentary secretary for the ministry of justice, publicly compared latvian residents of russian origin to insects that are difficult to get rid of. these statements have not received any criticism either from the latvian ruling elite or in mainstream media. this intolerant attitude towards part of the population opens the way to arrogant and aggressive behaviour against other nations and countries. i am sure, in these circumstances, the european union must develop a centralised system of monitoring hate speech cases in the eu member states in order, at least, to compensate for the absence of national discussion on such issues. if we are not going to eliminate the dark corners of european political life, the political monsters will multiply there, come out and destroy europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, which i deem to be very timely. humanitarian assistance as such should never be criminalised. the eu is bound to protect those in humanitarian need. this is one of the main elements of our soft power. the commission is the third biggest donor of humanitarian aid after the united states of america and germany. we need to keep this flag high and not allow our efforts to be diminished. but i call for major operation cooperation and coordination between actors providing humanitarian assistance and the competent authorities. humanitarian assistance, like any matter which involves financial resources, is subject to criminalisation. while we can guarantee accountability and transparency on the part of the commission, we cannot fully guarantee the same from the ngos that are our partners. therefore, we need to monitor the enforcement and effective practical application of the facilitators package by collecting and recording annually information on the number of people arrested for facilitation.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report and agree that we must take significant measures to ensure that the privacy shield will fully comply with eu regulations and with the eu charter of fundamental rights, with no loopholes or competitive disadvantages for eu companies. i know very well that it has required great effort for the eu to arrive at a common position on this, but what is more problematic now is to enforce our norms with regard to the united states of america. if we do not adopt a wise diplomatic approach immediately, this will become a real stumbling block for privacy in europe and the european union. for this reason, i particularly support the call on the eu authorities to start discussions on the privacy shield arrangement. that is why i voted in favour. another issue which bothers me, especially in view of the recent investigation into cambridge analytica, is the illegal use of our data for political manipulation.
mr president, providing an adequate level of protection for personal data transferred to the us under fatca in full compliance with national and eu data protection law is a matter of crucial importance for the european union. thus i call on the member states and the commission to ensure that the fundamental rights of all citizens are guaranteed, especially the right to a private and family life. the right to privacy and the principle of non—discrimination is laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and in the european convention on human rights. it is necessary to present a joint eu approach to fatca in order adequately to protect the rights of european citizens and improve equal reciprocity in the automatic exchange of information by the united states of america. i also would like to call on the commission to open negotiations with the us on an eu—us fatca agreement with a view to ensuring full mutual exchange of information.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, observance of women’s rights in pakistan is a big human rights question in the west. unfortunately, we have to admit that this country is one of the most dangerous countries for women. the state does little to protect women and girls, despite constitutional guarantees, with loss of free will for the women of pakistan. they are denied their basic fundamental rights. women in pakistan have been constantly complaining of isolation from the mainstream of society. women feel disillusioned by being maltreated by the male oriented set—up in pakistan. however, pakistani society usually adopts a hostile attitude towards women, who face substantial systematic challenges in pakistan, and most fundamental is the question of violence. violence against women is a very alarming situation in the country because it is getting to a very threatening situation in that the violence is getting more brutal day by day. the honour and dignity of females is endangered, and no woman is efficiently protected by the state. one of the key problems is that there is a very fragmented legal framework for violence against women and girls. moreover, there are no proper mechanisms on the ground for proper law enforcement and prosecution of crimes against women. despite several legislative developments to strengthen women’s protection system, there is no significant decline in the number of cases of violence against women. many laws for building the country’s protection of women’s rights for freedom, equality and justice were formally introduced, but never enforced in the country. as a result, dramatically cruel and ruthless actions of crime against women are still happening. violence against women and girls, including rape, murder, through so—called honour killings and domestic violence and forced marriage remain routine. in fact, pakistani human rights ngos estimates that there are about 1 000 honour killings every year; yes, one thousand. as you can imagine, investigation rates on them are close to zero. for example, in 2017 in khyber pakhtunkwa (kpk) province in north—west pakistan, 94 women were murdered by close family members. in june 2016, zeenat rafiq, aged 18 was burned to death in lahore by her mother for ‘bringing shame to the family’ by marrying a man of her choosing. in the same year, family members tortured and burned to death an 18 year—old schoolteacher in murree, punjab, for refusing an arranged marriage, and qandeel baloch, a well—known pakistani model, was killed by her brother in a so—called honour killing. these are just a few examples of the numerous inhuman brutal crimes against women in pakistan. especially vulnerable are women from religious minority communities. the report by the movement for solidarity and peace in pakistan found that at least 1 000 girls belonging to christian and hindu communities are forced to marry muslim men every year. the government failed to act to stop such forced marriages. moreover, child marriages still remain a serious concern in pakistan, with 21% of girls marrying before the age of 18, despite the submission of proposals aiming to raise the legal minimum age to 18 for females and to introduce harsher penalties for those who arrange child marriages. it was withdrawn by the national parliament of pakistan. given these facts, women and girls in pakistan do not possess their due rights guaranteed by the constitution of pakistan. i know the situation. i visited pakistan in april last year with the committee on foreign affairs on an ad hoc mission to pakistan. the state is unable to protect them from the inhuman social customs prevalent in this society. dear colleagues, let us stop our silence. we have to protect women in pakistan. thank you, ms mogherini, for your support on this issue.
the blue card issue. - the honourable mr jakovcic! thank you so much for accepting my blue card request. you all rightly praised the rights and protection of christians in pakistan, but understand that when we were there with the foreign affairs committee delegation last april, every meeting we had started with a reading of the koran. pakistan is a deeply religious country, a muslim country, a sunni country. how do you view christian defense in this situation?
in writing. i think that the speech of european commission president jean-claude juncker was a little lacking in energy and in the appreciation of his mistakes, and a little too optimistic. the phrase 'a europe that protects' has become mr juncker's motto and should be our common goal. i therefore welcome mr juncker's proposal to continue strengthening the european external borders and coast guard agency by providing an additional 10 000 border guards by 2020. however, the question remains whether and how this promise can be realised in such a short time, as the previous mandate of the agency has not yet been fully implemented and this proposal would require serious investment and support from eu member states. the rapid return of illegal migrants, which has been a stumbling block for member states so far, is also essential to enhance security. these are proposals that i would have liked to have heard sooner, because they would have saved a lot of painful memories in the process of addressing the problems of migration and integration.
mr president, i voted against the mandate for the copyright directive and i appreciate that some colleagues here worked hard on this file, but the final document is not more satisfactory than the one we voted down in july. parliament had only two working weeks to discuss and approve the proposal and i really feel that they have the responsibility in front of our citizens to achieve a good and fair agreement here in parliament before the file goes to the negotiation table with the council and the commission. debates in this parliament are the last opportunity for our voters to see in a transparent way what will happen to their digital rights in future and i believe that what we have achieved now is not democratic enough. as a journalist, but also as a citizen of the eu, i put freedom of expression among the top values. by no means can we suppress through the filters the creativity and the freedom of europeans.
mr president, we can like donald trump or not, but one thing is sure, we have to deal with the united states. the us has been supporting the european project since the beginning. our ties are irreversible and the shadow of the future is long for us both. what we must do in this house is decide our approach to the us notwithstanding who is in power there. we need to be serious about it and not reduce the current disequilibrium in our relations to the individual figure of trump only. as a member of the snd group, i am convinced that our dialogue with the us must be equal and fair – i repeat, equal and fair. the eu needs to stop merchandising its values for the sake of a deal with the us. why did we not adopt any urgency resolution on the human rights violation perpetrated by the us. why do we not speak about the us violating the sovereignty of other states. it is easy to be strong with weak ones and weak with the strong ones.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on eu—china relations. it states that eu—china cooperation should be more people oriented. i fully agree with this but, in order to benefit the people, our cooperation should be dominated by human rights issues and social standards. instead, our cooperation is dominated by commercial interests. china is probably bigger and stronger than ever before, but please remember that it was this big and strong china that put the nobel prize laureate for peace, liu xiobo, in laogai, a detention camp supposed to re-educate and reform through labour. the fact is that it is a prison where people are forced to work. liu xiobo found the courage to write a manifesto for democracy in china and at that moment, penal labour became his destiny. do you know what, colleagues? the penitentiary labour camp was expressly proud to have among its prisoners a nobel prize winner – and who knows how many products from such camps we use every day.
my fellow citizens! already four years ago, when we started this period, we started working very actively with colleagues from croatia, poland, slovakia, the czech republic on the quality of products to prevent discrimination, which we see, and my latvian citizens complained about, between eastern and western europe. we used every means possible to convince our western colleagues that this was a problem. and it was only last year, when the commission and juncker also raised the issue in their speeches, that this work really picked up speed. this was particularly accelerated when we in the committee on budgets funded a project to study a methodology for comparing products. we have also proposed this year that research should also be carried out on non-food products. it is clear that discrimination must end. it is quite clear that the labelling of identical products must be identical and, if the quality of the products differs, the labelling must be different. clearly, these differences are largely due to the fact that large companies make more profit at the expense of the consumers of eastern and central europe. i very much hope that the commission will give our proposals serious consideration. i am convinced that there is a need for reforms in legislation european legislation as well as in the supervisory authorities, otherwise the individual institutions will not be able to cope with this problem. so, commission, let us get back to work!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would say to the honourable commissioner, my friend and real socialist mr andriukaitis, that europe day on 9 may is a big event for us. it has great salience for us here in the european parliament and for all those who work in the european institutions. it is evident that we try to fill this day with the strongest meaning, but it is not the same for many ordinary european citizens to whom the european institutions still seem quite distant and irrelevant. i am in favour of making europe day a public holiday in all the eu member states, and i support my colleague, ivan jakovčić, in this claim. holidays are traditionally connected to great family events or to the celebration of big historical dates. i think that europe day is both a historical date and a family holiday. this is something that makes people feel that their nation is part of a big family and it makes them turn back in time and imagine how this family started. this celebration certainly contributes to a positive vision of the eu, and to major awareness of what the eu actually is. but as information about the eu grows, do the expectations of the citizens of the eu grow? it is important that we make the citizens feel part of a secure, stable and prosperous union, able to stand up for its interests in the international arena. we don’t want to see people feeling part of a union with an opaque decision—making system, disengaged from minority issues and subject to the will of the other great powers. europe day is a way to approach the hearts of the people. i know this personally, because for several years i have been participating in activities in my country, latvia, on 9 may. i know that people come to the celebration with the hope of a better europe. it is extremely important that we do not destroy these fragile feelings by adopting measures that go against the fundamental rights of people and their personal development. i am speaking in particular about the copyright directive on which a majority of meps voted in favour here in this chamber. i consider it a failure of the democratic process and as subjugation to pressure by lobbyists. i really don’t know how these meps will explain to their constituencies, to their voters, after the entry into force of the directive, the reason why they voted for the computer filtering of social media, putting every piece they publish into a copyright panopticon. in my opinion what we as meps cannot afford is to be deceptive with our voters – otherwise we just won’t have the moral right to go to the europe day celebration and pretend to work for the sake of europeans. the eu is a great power, or even better, it is a great power in the making. i think that we still need to show to our partners how strong we feel about our values and how essential it is to adopt a multilateral approach when adopting even the smallest agreement. europe day is also a message to the international community. we are a union, and we celebrate it like any country celebrates its national day. we all know well that foreign countries will try to use any cohesion gap, any deficits, any weakness and incompleteness of the european union to their benefit. there is no other way to dissuade our partners from an opportunistic approach than to show our unity at every occasion. that is why i think the celebration of europe day must be held in all corners of the world where there are eu representations, missions, offices, embassies and so on. another point i would like to raise is the legitimacy of the european union. we have many symbols – an anthem, a flag, a motto and europe day, and then the euro as a single currency became our symbol. but we need to be cautious about what message we transmit with our symbols. we must ensure that when the eu flag is flown in other countries it is there to bring only our peace and democracy.
chairman of the board! commissioners, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your cooperation. there aren't many of them here. we are in a small minority here, as we always are in plenary debates. but we have a disaster in latvia. we are in mourning. the former latvian minister of education actually closed down minority schools with his reform, and it is the biggest disaster that is not in line with the spirit, nature and letter of the european union. and we are celebrating the centenary of the latvian state. a hundred years ago, the free state of latvia was so democratic that it guaranteed education in eight languages, including latvian, in secondary schools. i now speak latvian specifically, instead of french or english, to show that we latvians are masters of the latvian language. but please, the european union, members, colleagues, support us! this is vital, because we have a slogan: 'unity in diversity!'. uniformity in diversity means that nations outnumber countries. latvia is part of europe. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, madam vice- president/high representative, blatant violations of international law by the russian federation are nothing new. since 2014, the eu has been able to unite itself in the response to them. but the creeping annexation of the azov sea and partial blockade of all the ukrainian ports is one more serious challenge to our determination to uphold the european peace order. it is a direct concern of eu security and commercial interests, as the financial losses directly concern also eu merchants. but it is obviously more serious than a commercial and legal issue. the situation in azov gradually turns into one more open conflict waiting to happen. the eu so far has not been up to this challenge, projecting weakness and disinterest rather than strength and determination. at the very least, you, madam vice-president/high representative, i thank you for the statement you made today and i expect you to join ukraine in using all diplomatic action and international legal procedures to counter the hostile russian actions in oslo.
madam president, mr president of the council! finally, at the council meeting, some of the emphasis is right on migration policy - either on how to move migrants faster, returning those (who are not refugees) and also reducing the influence of criminal organisations in this process. at the same time, however, it must be said that no significant steps have been taken to establish a coastguard, a border guard. although relocation schemes continue in member states that do not work, we see this from the experience of many countries. but the most important thing for me from the council was the brexit issue and it's hard to know whether citizens and businesses on the european continent and in the uk are reassured by the announcement that the compromise is 90% achieved or 95%. perhaps the most important thing for citizens and businesses is to stop this drama of scenarios that will end with an unknown outcome in a month or two, and to finally think about this content that will ensure cooperation and, above all, security on the european continent, and not just the security of the european union from the security of the european continent.
mr president, the general budget is one of the most complex and crucial files that parliament is adopting this year. i am happy to see that we have gone much further than the commission and the council in our commitments. i am speaking about the enforcement of the youth employment initiative, horizon 2020, the asylum, migration and integration fund and other projects. the budget for next year must be tailor—made to address the needs of our citizens. therefore i support the programmes that give the highest european added value. as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to this report, i did my best to contribute to the chapter on security and citizenship. i specifically underlined the role of eu agencies, which are practical tools in solving security problems. we cannot give them big mandates and little money. we cannot do more with less. in addition, i initiated and supported several pilot projects. one of those is the protection of investigative journalism and media freedom in the eu. in some eu countries like my country, latvia, it is crucial.
mr president, dear colleague, i welcome the adoption of this report and i’m glad that i could contribute also to the drafting of the libe committee opinion on it. it seems unacceptable that so far there has been no common rule regarding the import of cultural goods from third countries, except some specific provisions for iraq and syria. looting on archaeological sites has happened at all times but has now reached an industrial scale. the economic and artistic value of the cultural heritage creates a strong demand on the international market, including the shadow economy. the illegal export is managed by terrorists or other criminal organisations, especially from the regions affected by armed conflict. i would like to remind you that the cultural heritage constitutes an element of personal identity together with language, religion, territory and the sense of belonging. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of the motion of this fourth resolution. the european parliament has finally decided to speak openly that there is a xenophobic surge in europe. but the resolution is not enough. we need our national parliaments and governments to start speaking about it and to explain to the people that it is not refugees, not minority groups and not human rights defenders who pose a threat. the real threat to our societies comes from neo—fascist groups and right—wing extremists. i’m very sad that some of my colleagues from my country, latvia, voted against this text. i’m sure any one of us could cite a recent example from his own history, even if only nine countries are mentioned in the report. just take the example of the recent parliamentary election in latvia – hate speech and violence have become almost normal for some political forces to attract the attention of voters. this is unacceptable.
the blue card issue. thank you very much, mr. tarrant, for accepting my blue card request. you spoke so much and extensively about the ussr and how ethnic estonians and latvians were probably oppressed in the soviet union, but at the same time why did you keep quiet about the fact that this year the free state of estonia and the free state of latvia will celebrate their centenary of statehood? estonia and latvia were a model for europe a century ago in preserving the rights of minorities. why not remember this wonderful experience?
the blue card issue. thank you very much, your honor, for accepting my blue card request. as you know, there are many ethnic poles in my country latvia, especially in the east of latvia, called latgale, and according to the latvian state language law it is not possible for ethnic poles to write "tomaszewski" in their passport, they have to write "tomaševski". do you consider this to be a violation and a disregard of the rights of national minorities, in this case the poles?
madam president, at the previous session of the european parliament we adopted the resolution on the rise of neo—fascist violence in europe. the overwhelming majority of the members of parliament voted in favour of this resolution. it was a clear signal to all member states and the political forces: europe is against politically—motivated violence and against the rise of neo—nazist ideology. what happened then? in my country, in latvia, the anti—fascist resolution was met either by ignorance or sharp criticism by ruling politicians and the mainstream media, and it is not an exception. all signals coming from the external world which do not fit the nationalistic ideology of the ruling parties are simply ignored by them and the latvian—language media. what is important from the point of view of the latvian russian minority, because of the ignorance and double standards applied by latvian authorities also in the case when we need the state to react against hate speech, or the relentless persecution of national minorities – a majority against the minorities. there was no reaction after the minister for education asked latvians to get rid of the empathy towards minorities. there was no reaction when we asked the police several times to investigate the hate speech by one latvian intellectual who called the local russians ‘genetic trash’. in these conditions, we ask the european union to elaborate clear and strong rules for preventing hate speech on the level of national states.
madam president, traditional parties in europe are being defeated in the recent elections. why? i dare say that the problem is not in the economic situation and not even in the refugee crisis, but in the rapid decline in the significance of europe in the world. the population of greater europe at the beginning of the 20th century was one—third of the world population. now the share has dropped to 12%, and by 2050 the europeans will be only 7% of the world’s population. the share of the eu economy by 2050 will be reduced from the current 15% to 9% of the global economy. visible changes have already occurred, but not only have they become visible to society, but the loss of significance of europe leads to the loss of many past advantages, and people feel that. this is not a reason for fear and panic, but a reason for honest re—thinking. then there will be less surprises and more useful solutions for our citizens.
i am pleased that the european parliament is now the most dynamic force on the question of the european union's budget after 2020. i therefore thank the rapporteurs who have continued to work even when the member state has not tried to reach a quick agreement. i believe that we should ask for an increase in member states' contributions to 1,3% of national gni, because it is the most efficient way, alongside a digital tax, to implement common european programmes after brexit. the next important thing is to maintain cohesion and agricultural policy funding at at least the same level as it is at present. it would be very unfair to restrict the availability of these funds to countries whose gdp and direct payments are still below the eu average. as in the baltic countries, where, for example, infrastructure, even at the level of italy, spain and greece, requires further huge investments. the reduction in unemployment in our countries is due to people moving to the economically stronger member states and thereby increasing the gdp of those already strong countries. so this gap is only going to grow in development. in contrast, programmes such as erasmus and the 'awareness' programme clearly need to grow. they are the key to europe's competitiveness, to the opportunities for young people, and to our future scientific and innovation achievements. as regards security and border security, there is no longer any doubt that the only solution here is to be found at european level.
mr president, in the eu 8% of citizens belong to national minorities and 10% speak a regional or a minority language. if this house were to fully represent the ethnic diversity of the eu, every 10th member here would belong to a national minority, that is to say to a vulnerable group. if you try to imagine being this 10th member then the whole picture changes. i supported the report of mr nagy with my vote and i had the honour of contributing to it personally. my claim is that the commission needs to explore the legal instruments so that minorities can be better represented at eu level. the commission cannot always hide behind the lack of competence to address the minorities issue. in the eu, we are witnessing odious practices that go against human rights. the new school reform in latvia deprives our children of the right to study in their own language. i am extremely worried about oppressive linguistic policies, and i say that we must fight against such illiberal practices.
rapporteur. – mr president, since the signature of the report in 2014 georgia has undertaken substantial reforms for the successful implementation of an association agreement (aa). its european path is now even enshrined in the constitution of georgia and enjoys cross—party support. unlike here in the eu, in georgia there are no serious anti—european movements. georgia has shown a good absorption capacity and between 2017 and 2020 the association programme has been supported with funds of between eur 371 and 453 million. it is reflected in the report that the eu takes very seriously the oversight of this financial spending. i believe that georgia is making enough communication efforts to guarantee that its citizens know about the projects realised with the help of the european union. the aa has a very positive effect on eu—georgia relations. it has allowed us to extend our political relations under the security dialogue so that now georgia is even taking part in our csdp missions. georgia provides an example that the eu’s structural foreign policy really works. even if the eu is still silent on the concrete membership process, the georgian side is really putting a lot of energy into it. many say that georgia has gone much further than other association countries in its ambitions and performance, and has made a series of ministerial reforms to achieve the objectives of the aa. that is why georgia needs more highly—qualified personnel from the eu. they need our expertise in energy, in the environment, in safety standards and other fields. if you want our engagement in georgia to be sustainable, we need to boost it with knowledge, not only with money. georgia has achieved huge progress on many democratic issues, including free media and journalism. in the last five years the number of tv channels with nationwide coverage rose from 3 to 13. this is important considering that tv is still the major source of information for the people. in its judiciary reform, georgia can already claim many achievements. among them one can mention accessibility for the media, the removal of politicians from the high council of justice, the reform of the high school of justice, and so on. the parliament is now working on further reforms of the judiciary to address disciplinary proceedings, caseload and other issues. recent constitutional reforms transform georgia into a truly parliamentary democracy with strong powers in the hands of the parliament, particularly as far as its oversight over the executive is concerned. georgia expects a transition to a fully—proportionate parliamentary election system in 2024. this will make political life even more vibrant, and the active engagement of civil society in georgian policymaking is a good precursor of this new trend. the report also reflects major improvements in human rights standards, and freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and of association are now protected much better than before in georgia. some challenges need to be tackled however. let’s say that our current association agenda has to take account of the legacy of the previous government georgia had since its independence in 1991. therefore this report does not only contain an assessment of achievements but also provides concrete recommendations for further work. on a separate note, i would like also to underline that this report gives support to georgia in its pursuit of peaceful conflict resolution and reconciliation. the report welcomes georgia’s efforts to maintain constructive dialogue with russia and supports its committed participation in the geneva international discussions. my report proposes a decision to draw up such implementation reports on georgia on an annual basis, and considering the recent positive dynamics i think that the next report will reflect even more achievements. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for supporting this first implementation report on georgia and for their comments. i know that the georgians have been impatiently waiting for it, because it provides an assessment of what has been done for the last two years or even four years. but this is not only the assessment of the georgian establishment. this is also the assessment of the european capacity to promote democracy, the rule of law and good governance. the concrete example of georgia confirms that the eu is a good model for imitation, and the european perspective – no matter how near or far it can be – still exerts an important attraction. but let’s not make georgia the hostage of its own success. as i have said before, georgia still needs to solve many problems, and it needs to keep in mind the social dimension of policy change. i would like to thank also those members who brought substantial contributions to the report with the amendments on the implementation of the association agreement between the eu and georgia, and i want to thank them for sticking to the scope of the report. unfortunately, some other colleagues felt the need to introduce amendments on some very negative aspects, and i sincerely regret that the spirit of confrontation of some colleagues still overrides the logic of cooperation and dialogue. and then, in addition, georgia is now in a politically delicate moment. now is the period between two presidential election rounds, with the second round on 2 december, and as you well know this is the last time the president of georgia is elected directly. even though i understand the colleagues who tabled the amendment of the first round of elections, i personally cannot support it, because i think this house cannot allow itself to interfere with the electoral process and try to influence the balance of forces within georgia.
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to thank you for your support. as always, the world is changing. it's always been like that. the first industrial revolution brought new technologies that radically changed people's lives. if people used to work mainly in agricultural jobs, maybe forestry, fisheries, new industries, factories, completely new work environments, our, shall we say, great-grandfathers adapted to these conditions. we're now living in the next revolution, the so-called digital revolution, where the whole job market is changing again, all the opportunities are changing. and if maybe 50 years ago, many people literally worked in factories, now there are robots working in factories, but it's people who are building the robots of the future, creating the opportunities of the future. the challenge for us in this era of digital revolution is that these are already technologies that have evolved. we have a very fragmented market in europe. it's also affected telecommunications and so on. but we know that europe competes in the global marketplace: it is up against the united states with a single market of 330 million people, it is up against china with 1.3 billion people. europe, with 500 million, has enormous potential, but great scarcity. what this telecommunications package that we're talking about today is providing is a unified approach, a unified infrastructure for this entire area. so for consumers, this means phone calls that don't cost more when you travel elsewhere in europe, so a single market for telecommunications. this means simple, secure access to the internet. and for industry, this means clear conditions for how to further develop technologies, such as the so-called 5g technologies, which will be the key to the future of autonomous driving, healthcare and so on. we support this pact, we support our economic development. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i support this resolution, but i want to underline that this is only the first concrete step towards ensuring that the member states respect the principles that the case has subscribed to. central and eastern european countries’ sole claim to fulfil the copenhagen criteria, including their political criteria on the respect for human rights and protection of minorities, but they also made promises to improve their unaddressed issues. let me take the example of my country, latvia. before accession, it was subject to the screening mechanisms that showed the need to give minorities more representation and finish with the practice of statelessness. since the accession, latvia put this request into the archives. it might seem ironic if it were not so sad. so, what can the eu do to avoid this moral hazard and post-accession opportunism? the reply can be found in this resolution. the commission must present a proposal for a comprehensive new mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
chairman! i am voting for the report by my colleague, mr lopez aguilar. i voted in favour, along with my political group and other members. but what happened at the time of the vote is, first of all, not a credit to us the european parliament. it's a technical error. and i understand when the ultra-left politicians say that we shouldn't issue humanitarian visas just because some migrants are coming, and we should fight as if against migrants. it's absurd, that's their rhetoric. but when the president of the parliament, mr. thunne, seeing that it is a technical error, does not want to vote because the majority in this house, in this building, is for the issuing of humanitarian visas - yes, i think there is a mistake, and we should have voted for this document in principle. he's very important to us. humanitarian visas are a way of showing europe's flag to the world. we had to vote for the "a" side. thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the old saying goes, if you want peace, prepare for war. it's not to be taken literally, but a propaganda war must be prepared to defend our values. russia has realized that direct intervention, like in crimea and southeastern ukraine, is met with serious western opposition, so now there's an emphasis on fake news, propaganda on the internet, on television, fake profiles on social media. russia is not just producing fake news, as i say, but fake views. this is an indisputable fact, treated in exactly the opposite sense. it's about the occupation of the baltic states, it was about the hijacking of the malaysian plane. what are we to do? first, the law on party financing must be established. when i heard some colleagues today who don't remember the fake news created by russia, i thought maybe the law on party funding is a mess. second, we have to work seriously with journalists, we have to be creative, we have to create media literacy, public information. we need to not only dominate the bad news in the media, but also balance it against our achievements. we need to work with our nato partners to make sure that our tech specialists, our cyber specialists, are stronger than those who try to disrupt us, who try to hack into our websites and so on. i thank you, colleagues, for supporting my pilot project to increase the funding of stratcom, but i really urge the commission to find the means to make the funding of stratcom a permanent thing. thank you!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the single market and the absence of borders has given us many chances to seek economic advantages in another country. many children have, however, become victims of our striving for a better life. we are faced with a new phenomenon today: euro orphans, that is to say children temporarily abandoned by parents working abroad. did you know that the number of euro orphans in the eu is estimated at between 500 000 and one million? this is a huge number, but the reunification of such families has not been taken for granted, and in some cases becomes a nightmare for parents. during the last ten years, parliament has received an enormous amount of petitions related to involvement of the jugendamt in cross-border family disputes. in the majority of cases, non-german parents denounce systematic discriminations and arbitrary measures, including the prohibition of the use of the parents’ mother tongue in contact with children. the national administrative system of non-german parents do not have a say in this process and in addition, the german competent authorities have failed to implement the recent recommendation of our committee on petitions. clearly, the question of parental responsibility and child custody falls under the competence of the jugendamt and, without it, there is no alternative way to solve these questions. therefore, we must find new, effective solutions to all issues experienced by non-german parents. the european commission needs to have a regular oversight of jugendamt activities. bilateral consular services must get involved and multilateral platforms must be created to guarantee that the cross-border character of a dispute does not endanger the well-being of children.
the blue card issue. thank you very much for accepting my blue card question. i know that you often criticize the european union very sharply - that it is not good for us and it is not good for us. but in reality, i have not heard from your speech the answer you are offering, what needs to be done to preserve the children's mother tongue on the one hand and to discourage the european union on the other.
madam president, this year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. after the terrible second world war, humanity needed new values and new points of support. for the first time, the universal declaration of human rights powerfully declared that every person has rights that must be respected by any authority. its adoption has become a unique embodiment of the great will of people and their leaders. it’s alarming that today such a declaration would hardly have been adopted. most of the current political leaders would find in it something they didn’t like, fail to accept it and start blaming each other. the lessons of the world wars are forgotten by a new generation. human rights are no longer popular. for many they cease to be of value, they simply do not comply or are used as a tool against a competitor. do we need great terror again to come to our senses? dear colleagues, my answer is yes.
madam president, the wto remains an example of a rules—based multilateral institution that brings a certain degree of order into the house of post—modern states. it is a precious platform for the eu to promote the values of multilateralism. however, it is becoming even more difficult considering the free—riding behaviour of some states, like the usa. i am glad to see that the report calls for the eradication of poverty and removing barriers to women’s participation in trade. i believe that our task is to make commerce as inclusive as possible. i also welcome the fact that the report calls for more transparency in international trade as a way to increase stability. my special attention goes to the provisions on developing countries. i believe that both these and the eu, in compliance with wto principles, should avoid a situation of donor—charity—receiver. to allow our partners to grow we need to treat them as equals and demand the same level of trade compliance from developing countries as from our developed countries.
madam president, academic education is a starting point of political awareness. if we want our efforts in promoting democracy to be successful, we need to ensure that the population of the countries we engage with is able to make an informed political choice. the more freedom we give to academia, the more democratic a society we achieve. a democratic society is always a more peaceful and balanced society. i particularly appreciate the plenary amendments tabled by s&d group that require academic freedom to become a part of the copenhagen criteria. if a country restricts free academic research we must take it as the first symptom of illiberalism and encourage our partners to refrain from political manipulation of universities and schools. a failure in education brings about a failure in all spheres of public life, and in addition it results in a huge loss in economic opportunities. therefore, i support this report and hope that its provisions are fully implemented.
madam president, i support this report and want to underline that the strength of a society is assessed based on its attitude towards fragile groups. even though european countries have achieved better social standards than the majority of our international partners, the issue of female disability is far from being solved. if you look at the figures, there is good reason to be disappointed and even ashamed. we have 46 million women and girls with disabilities in the eu, but only 18% of them are employed. 34% of them have experienced physical or sexual violence by a partner. these women and girls not only face discrimination in the labour context, but also in education, in the social spheres of public life. as a result, their choice of profession and lifestyle is restricted. they become victims of poverty and social exclusion, and this all creates a situation where cruelty almost seems to be socially acceptable. on those grounds, i voted in favour.
madam president, the yellow vest protest in france is a symptom of the disease, but is not the disease itself. this is the distrust of europeans in their political elite. the symptoms suggest that the authorities and residents of the country have a different understanding of their problems. according to recent polls, only 20—25% of french residents trust president emmanuel macron, and over 70% do not trust him. when macron was elected as president two years ago, many people had the impression that they had voted for liberal values and a united europe. however, few people paid attention to the fact that macron received support not for his views, but rather for the fact that he was the only candidate in the elections who was fresh and did not belong to the old political elite. people gave him a mandate of trust, but time was spent on euphoria and false promises. it’s necessary to start a real dialogue.
mr president, it happens to all of us to listen to people disappointed in the eu, blaming brussels and feeling that nobody cares about their needs. this is partly due to the lack of information about the eu, but also partly due to the lack of reaction from the institutions. unfortunately, numerous petitions get superficial replies from the commission, which leads petitioners to conclude that the whole institutional system of the eu is inefficient. the european parliament, as the institution receiving the petitions, has a special role to play in the process of turning citizens’ claims into a real political change. but to make it a reality, we need to intervene on multiple levels. first, we need to ensure that information on eu law is made available to specific groups of citizens in the most user—friendly way. information on filing a petition should also be made clearer. second, we need to make sure that petitions manage to bring a mindful impact on eu policies. petition is the right of any eu citizen, but we cannot give a right that does not really empower people. some petitions are closed without people getting a concrete reply. this is the case of numerous petitions on the problem of non-citizenship in latvia: this is a problem that affects 12% of the population, and has lasted for 27 years already. the only hope of latvian non—citizens is an efficient reply at the eu level. when the petition becomes the only one and single tool, we cannot allow this single tool to be useless. third, based on the petition statistics, we need to enhance cooperation with member state authorities on the matter of implementation of eu law. petitioners should be at the origin of the claim, but they should also be the final beneficiaries of our replies.
mr president, the negotiations of the budget for 2019 has been particularly challenging this year, and therefore i thank mr viotti for his hard work. i also contributed to the ep draft budget, paying special attention to the budget of eu agencies in the area of freedom, security and justice. unfortunately, when the mandate of an agency is expanded, it does not necessarily result in the increase of its budget. do we really expect our agencies and justice and home affairs to deliver more results with fewer resources? it seems that the council really believes so, which i – as an mep – deem unacceptable. however, i would like to make a positive comment on the increase of eur 943 million obtained in the negotiations. they correspond to parliament’s main political priorities – namely, in support of researchers, young people, smes, tackling the root causes of migration, climate change and increasing the security of eu citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, scientific research helped us to satisfy citizens’ priorities, both productivity and competitiveness. for centuries, ‘made in europe’ has been a symbol of quality and knowhow. i even dare to say that the excellence in science, technology and the arts became a component of the eu’s normative power. i support the proposal for a regulation on horizon europe and the report drafted by colleague, dan nica. this proposal serves the consolidation of the european research area and is going to deliver new jobs in science and research. as a socialist and democrat, i defend the principle of open science and i believe that the diffusion of innovation makes the eu a unique scientific hub. however, we need to guarantee that our scientists choose to stay in europe, because countries such as the united states, canada and australia appear attractive to researchers from europe due to their larger innovation intensity and better social conditions. that is why we have to defend our social conditions in europe.
mr president, eu member states are facing growing violence from far—right extremists and neo—fascist movements. they target political opponents, refugees and migrants, ethnic and religious minorities. manifestations of these movements are seen everywhere in my country, latvia, which is not an exclusion of this outrageous practice. the recent attack here in strasbourg should be a reminder for us that the danger exists always. the role of the eu, which is expected by our citizens, is to detect and prevent such cases and to react rapidly whenever such things happen. for this, we need a strong and coordinated response and cooperation at the eu level. security challenges become even more cross—border and that means that the reply should be cross—border too. therefore, i welcome calling on the rapporteurs of all european institutions to work towards a common strategic culture, and the creation of the eu coordination centre for victims of terrorism is another necessary measure that the commission should propose immediately.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, approximately 5 000 to 8 000 distinct rare diseases affect between 6 and 8% of the eu population – between 27 and 36 million people. patient registries and databases, clinical research in the field of rare diseases are very fragmented. this problem can only be solved at the level of the european union. the eu’s strategic objective for rare diseases is to improve patient access to diagnosis, information and care. specific measures have to include, first of all, ensuring that rare diseases are adequately coded and traceable in all health information systems. secondly, supporting national plans for rare diseases in eu member states. thirdly, improving recognition and visibility of rare diseases. and then creating european reference networks linking centres of expertise and professionals in different countries to share knowledge and identify alternative treatment options. the eu has to continue to support research into rare diseases through horizon 2020, in the eu framework programmes for research and innovation and the european platform on rare diseases registration, which was mentioned by the honourable commissioner. rare diseases are the field where you can ensure progress, creating synergy in research and innovation and let’s work for it.
