mr president, the clean energy package, which we are dealing with today, is our opportunity to decarbonise the economy while keeping energy affordable for all. i will be dealing with all the different reports because i believe that to reach this target, we need to be ambitious and we need to understand that business as usual this time round will not work. ensuring clean energy will help our climate and safeguard the wellbeing of our citizens. if we are both ambitious and realistic, we can understand that the way forward is to reduce drastically greenhouse gas emissions, improve energy security, reduce energy bills and eradicate energy poverty, if we are smart enough. we have to ensure investor certainty and accountability. this will lead to the creation of jobs and a marked reduction in air pollution. this is our opportunity. over the past months, we have worked hard in the various committees to reach a progressive position that can effectively transform our energy landscape, make the transport sector cleaner and fight energy poverty. today, and in the months to come, we need to send a strong signal – to businesses, citizens and all stakeholders – that this is the time to be competitive, invest further in new economies and ensure clean energy for all.
in writing. – unfortunately, the last elections were marred by serious human rights violations by kenyan security forces, who used excessive force to break up protests and carry out house—to—house operations, during which more than 90 people died, shot by police. the kenyan authorities have failed to adequately investigate a range of abuses across the country, undermining basic rights to free expression and association. human rights activists and journalists face numerous obstacles and harassment. the kenyan authorities should condemn the recent violence, rein in any police abuses, and investigate scores of killings, most of them by police, during the prolonged electoral period. we have to encourage all political forces in kenya to genuinely engage in constructive dialogue in order to find a solution to the deep crisis in which the country still finds itself. we really have to ensure that recommendations made by the eom to kenya are fully implemented.
in writing. – the first months of 2018 may crucially affect next year’s elections to the european parliament. the tone could be set by the outcome of the italian and hungarian elections in coming weeks. moreover, while entering the second year of negotiations, brexit talks still remain a huge source of uncertainty. in this transitional context, which usually induces a legislative slowdown, the bulgarian presidency has presented a strong programme. by prioritising the deepening of regional relations, starting with the balkans, this presidency could further raise awareness of the state of peripheral countries, whose full inclusion in policymaking is key to ensuring economic and social cohesion in europe. i also especially welcome the emphasis on the digital agenda. this issue is crucial, especially regarding smes. we should ensure that the development of the digital single market includes the needs of real users, who must adapt as they realise the possibilities afforded by technology. lastly, tax—related concerns should remain important in this first half of 2018. parliament has recently questioned the unanimity principle. strong emphasis should remain on tax transparency and on the necessary tax flexibility for countries at the margin of europe. bulgaria is well placed to highlight this crucial issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. other we are talking about the fact that the information and statistics we have show that the youth unemployment rate is falling, but of course not at a consistent rate across europe. it is therefore important that we continue to work towards achieving our goals on this subject and i am very pleased that the bulgarian presidency is making this subject one of its priorities. this report exposes certain shortcomings in the implementation of the youth unemployment initiative, as we know it, and perhaps it was also implemented quickly, albeit with positive results. we have to admit that we may not have refined this initiative to add more success stories and we need to rebuild, as the commissioner said, and improve this initiative to ensure that it continues to trend in the long term and not just for the immediate future. i believe that we should not look at this problem of youth unemployment from the economic point of view alone. our role is to understand and address what the problems really are. let us recognize that there are other consequences for young people who are unemployed. so we need to know what these problems are, what these consequences are and of course address them. there must be more commitment then on our part and on the part of the member states for this initiative to be a success. this means that more work needs to be done to enable young people who are not working, not studying or not in training to recognise that this initiative can help them and that they can succeed through it. the effects of unemployment among young people and the people who are, after all, the future of the european union are profound and the consequences are felt over the long term. and so it is more important than ever that we achieve our goals together and make this initiative a success.
madam president, let me start straightaway by congratulating both vice-presidents. i have been through the strategy. i have spoken to both of you and i have to say i am satisfied that for the first time ever we are looking at the issue with a holistic perspective. it could be that i come from an island in the middle of the mediterranean, and that makes me much more aware of the environmental and health problems that plastic waste brings. i think this is our opportunity to actually make sure that we put environment at the forefront, while also making sure that we get industry on board. we need to make sure that we remain competitive and we do not let other continents run in front of us in the competitiveness stakes. this is our opportunity because people are aware of the impact that plastic has, not only on our environment but also on our health. i have to be honest with you, i was quite shocked to hear that micro-plastics are not only ending up on our seabed, not only in the fish that we eat, but are also in the air we breathe. it is such a complex issue and so great a problem that we need to address it sooner rather than later. i have spoken to both of you, and if i may, as a final point, i would like to commit you on something, because i have heard some of the concerns that were raised. when we spoke, you promised a ban on the deliberate addition of micro-plastics, in detergents and cosmetics for example. you spoke about legislation on single-use plastics, and we will hold you to your word. we hope that we will see this by may, as we really want to make sure that we have progress on another legislative proposal from your end to make sure that waste does not come into our ports.
member of the commission. – madam president, the brussels iia regulation is a key tool to navigating cross-border legal issues in family matters and to providing protection for children. its revision addresses the shortcomings regarding parental responsibility proceedings which have also been flagged in the past by the honourable members. i am very happy that the commission and parliament have a common goal. we want to prevent that, in cross-border cases, children end up being taken hostages of long disputes. we also want to facilitate the procedures for families by various means including by reducing the length and cost of these procedures. before i speak about parliament’s amendments, i would like first to express my thanks to our rapporteur, mr zwiefka, for the excellent cooperation on this file. i am delighted that the report acknowledges that time and a smooth return to family life is of essence for children’s welfare and their relationship with their parents. in particular, i very much welcome the measures included in the report aiming to substantially reduce delays in returning children who were abducted by one of their parents. these are in line with the commission’s proposal. these measures will imply in practice less cumbersome procedures for parents and quicker decisions by judges in cross-border cases. this will result in giving children back the stability they need and deserve, and an earlier return to family life. facilitating enforcement of judgments once decisions are taken is another crucial aspect to ensure the rights of children and their families. the abolishment of the intermediate procedures to obtain cross-border enforcement of judgments will make this possible. this will avoid costs and delays, whilst maintaining the necessary safeguards to ensure, for instance, the rights of the defence. therefore, i welcome parliament’s support for this measure in this respect. concerning the amendments on the rights of the child to be heard in the proceedings, i take note of parliament’s wish for their to be common minimum standards at eu level – to be proposed by the commission – such as referring to the practical arrangements of the hearing. we have carefully assessed such a possibility. however, given that the existing rules and practices in member states in this area are extremely divergent, we find it more efficient to rely on existing standards laid down in the united nations convention on the rights of the child, to which all member states have already subscribed. therefore, i hope to have this particular rule accepted in the final version of the new instrument. as you all know, strengthening the rights of the child is a top priority for the commission. our proposal in this area will ensure that children are given an opportunity to be heard in legal proceedings concerning them. mutual recognition of member states’ practices in this respect will avoid refusals at the recognition or enforcement stage, thus allowing true circulation of judgments in the european union. for the sake of efficiency and in order to avoid overlaps we have not included specific rules on mediation for conflicts between parents, as requested by parliament. the existing mediation directive already covers efficient mediation mechanisms in these situations and foresees support for parents in resolving their conflicts. finally, i have noticed that parliament’s amendments focus also on close cooperation between member states’ authorities. here again, we speak with one voice. central authorities are the direct interface with parents and should play a key role in supporting judges in applying the regulation. the report and the proposed amendments reflect the need for more efficient cooperation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. – madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur. what we are discussing today is a sensitive issue that has a direct impact on thousands of citizens, particularly children living across the eu. so it is our duty to ensure that both children and parents who act in good faith are protected. there are too many cases of international child abduction by one of the parents for us not to act, and our guiding principle is that child abduction is detrimental to the fundamental rights of any child, wherever he or she is. it is a fact that the world we are living in is changing, and family law issues also change because family law issues that, before, were exclusively dealt with within national states now require international application. as international relationships and marriages increase, so do international custody disputes. in the committee on petitions we deal with cases of parents being deprived of their children, illegally taken away from them by the other parent, and that is why we believe that any proposal has to be more effective and ensure the best interests of the child. this is precisely why we need to close all loopholes and make sure that the regulation is not interpreted in a way that favours the parent responsible for the wrongful removal of a child. we need to make sure that the court of the member state of origin of the child is the one that takes the final decision in this respect. and we have to reduce, if not eliminate, forum shopping and ensure the interests of both parents are protected and, most importantly, reduce any possible harm to the children involved. i believe that this is the only way through which we can ensure effective judicial protection of the fundamental rights of children across the eu, wherever they are.
i think we agree that ensuring the protection of children from any form of danger has always been an intrinsic part of our values as europeans. and we can continue to do so by improving the way we regulate international cases of child abduction. the importance of legal measures is clear and strong. i remember a case also in malta where a father had the problem that although he had a custody order from the maltese courts, he had great problems to enforce it in another member state in a case where the child had in fact been abducted by his mother and held in another country. we are talking about real cases and cases that affect the most important aspect of the life of human beings. these regulations naturally have the advantage of making the return of abducted children much more efficient through the time allotted for the process, through the introduction of mediation and also through procedures whose ultimate aim is to enforce a principle that is dear to us: the principle that the best and most important interest is always that of the child and that children have their fundamental rights which must be protected at all times.
prime minister of croatia. – mr president, dear friends, thank you for the initial round of comments on the speech i delivered at the beginning of this great opportunity to discuss the future of europe with you. several points on several questions and comments. first, on jean-claude’s comment on balancing the enthusiasm, ambition and the financial realism of what we would like to see implemented, what policies should be the guiding lines of our project and which budgetary means we have available. the fact that the uk is leaving is – as i know thanks to my earlier position as a member of the committee on budgets here – not a positive thing. it is a downside. let’s be very clear about it: we have a downside. we all know that more or less 10 member states finance around 80% of our budget. this is something we don’t widely publicise, but these are the facts, and the catch in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework will be how to fill in the void which will be there. can we have enough resources to implement all the objectives of our policies? will this require more contributions from all member states? are some countries willing to increase it or to remain in the framework of what they are paying or contributing today? the situation is not the same if you are looking at it from the optics of the countries which contribute with a substantial percentage, or coming from a country with more modest economic and financial abilities where the increase would not be so dramatic. so after the analysis which we have made in croatia if there were an increased demand from our side we would be willing to do it, to be very clear at the beginning. when it comes to issues of enlargement, something that several of you have mentioned, if ever there was a policy or a dossier that we know more than well it is enlargement. it is a very positive coincidence for me that the commission will come up with a paper during the college a few hours later, bringing forward, as you said, the indicative timeline for the countries that remain within the group that we called the western balkans. they are divided into three groups. serbia and montenegro as the countries that negotiate, albania, our friends in macedonia – who are now negotiating the issue of the name with greece more intensively, and from what i understand, with a bit more optimism on finding a solution as the second group – and then bosnia and herzegovina, and kosovo, as the final two. my country has no dilemma. first of all, we are helping all of them already. you are not aware of that, but so many croatian experts are engaged in one way or another, transferring the freshest knowledge on the process of accession negotiations to all of our neighbours. we also know that, as jean-claude has said, the bilateral issues should not obstruct or slow down the process of any country’s accession to the eu. we know it better than you, if i may be very clear. having spent basically my entire life dedicated to the objective that one day my country would be around this table, i know what it means to lose a couple of years in the accession process. in my modest assessment around five years were lost, due to two main reasons. one relating to the bilateral issues, and the other to wider international conditionalities. five years from a historical perspective might not seem a lot, but it is an awful lot when you consider what it means to invest or lose in your economic, social development and take the benefits of eu membership. this is something i know well. that is why i see the role of my country as a bridge, as a facilitator and as someone who will advocate further enlargement. there is no dilemma for us: we want to follow up on what the bulgarian presidency is doing in sofia in may and that is the eu-western balkans summit after 15 years when it was last held in thessaloniki. the first one was held in zagreb. i was one of the organisers of it. my ambition is to have one in 2020, twenty years later, and we are trying to give a push because having the future of our neighbours anchored in the eu is positive for croatia. it will help us to address all the residual and open issues which stem from the times when croatia, as i said at the beginning, was a victim of aggression. that’s why we will do our utmost to help all of our neighbours, especially bosnia and herzegovina. here we all have a historical responsibility, and that is why i mentioned it at the beginning, to safeguard the full equality of all the three constituent peoples and all other groups in the country. when it comes to the issue of slovenia, which you have raised, slovenia is a friend of croatia. it is the only country in our history, over many centuries, with which we have never had any conflict, which is rare in our part of the world, almost an exception. this is not perhaps the best forum or the place to go into details of our border issue, but what i would like to stress here is my government’s readiness and openness to solve this issue in a manner which would be acceptable for both countries, taking into account the interests of both slovenia and croatia. that is what i proposed to miro cerar about a month and a half ago, because at this a moment we have a good opportunity to do it. at the same time, those of you who are following this in a little more detail will know that croatia’s parliament has withdrawn from the arbitration process that was facilitated by the eu in 2009 in order to unblock 14 chapters of the accession negotiations at a time stalled by slovenia because of the fact that it was unfortunately the slovenian representatives who violated the arbitration rules and violated in international law. we were there in good faith and we were investing all our efforts in this. so what we need to do now is find a compromise where both slovenia and croatia can be happy. i am willing to do that. i have the courage to do it, but the only thing i cannot do is close my eyes and say ‘no, everything was okay’. this is something i cannot do. but what i can do is to refrain from any unilateral actions, refrain from making this state-to-state problem into a citizens’ problem. this is what i can do, and some of you know what i mean, and that includes fishermen. because i do not think that is smart and that is useful. on the contrary, it can create an environment where it will be more difficult to achieve an agreement. so from my point of view, with a bit of patience, with a bit of a sense and sensibility we can make progress, while refraining from unilateral actions, because even if arbitration was to be considered under international law both countries have to agree for it be implemented. things are relatively clear to all of those who know a bit more detail. i will do everything in my power to eliminate tensions and ensure that a solution is found. at the same time, let me be very honest and clear with all of you. there are so many other still open bilateral issues among many member states and they never arrive on the table of the european council, or the european parliament. this is something we should remember. a few points on the social elements that you mentioned. on the social elements it was a very timely initiative that we had in goteborg, initiated by sweden. the social pillar principles, 20 of them, are items that we can all improve on a national level. i am in favour of social dialogue with our social partners, both at european and national level. we have taken account of the fact that minimum wages and the average salary have increased, and that major tax reform which we have undertaken at national level has had an overall positive impact on our citizens, including on the demographic issue by leaving more money to mothers and fathers, by via some additional allowances for those with children and larger families. these include subsidising interest rates on the housing loans and a number of other measures that we have taken in order to address the most critical issue, a structural issue affecting my society at least, and that is the question of demographic revitalisation. a few points on the spitzenkandidaten and transnational lists. in the last elections in 2014 i was privileged to be on the list of the croatian epp family and i was always mentioning jean-claude at every single event we had – and he was more popular than he can imagine! but it took us a lot of effort to communicate to croatian voters who jean-claude was. it wasn’t always easy, it took me a lot of effort, as dubravka and ruža and the others know, so my point is that we have to be realistic. we have different budgets for campaigning, we have different legislative frameworks for campaigns. we have an issue of accountability to our constituency. i am very much, as you can see, a pro-european leader of the croatian government, but i need to see that it is the right time and that there is sufficient preparedness. we need to look at things from all aspects. so i advocate the spitzenkandidaten, absolutely. are we ready for transnational lists, will they be adequately and fairly represented everywhere across the 27? for that i would need to see a little more concrete evidence that it is feasible. this is what i think from the experiences i have had personally so far and the consultations with my friends. a few points on the issues of climate change, renewable energy, and the protection of nature. you are right. we are lucky to have such a place in europe, with all the benefits of being on the adriatic and the danube, being a country which is really rich in water and natural resources, but we are also aware of our energy needs. so we are looking at the ecological aspects of every single project in a very detailed manner in dialogue with local communities and in dialogue with the ngos looking at various projects and various items. on the istanbul convention, which you have mentioned, few people know that croat experts initiated the whole exercise within the council of europe just next door here. here we signed it in 2013. i don’t know why the social democratic government at the time didn’t pass to the step of ratification. it remains a mystery to me because they had two years. what i have done is ensure we have completed the public consultation. the process of preparing the legislation to forward to parliament is almost over. unfortunately, the debate on this convention which was there, in my view, to protect and prevent violence in the family – especially violence against women – has somehow acquired a different dimension in many public debates, a sort of gender ideology debate which is trying to put a different angle on the substance. i am willing to debate this within the croatian parliament, within the political parties and with the public, and try to distinguish the wood from the trees. this is my task ahead in the months which will follow. finally, an issue of identity, which was rightly mentioned by manfred, thank you very much. we have always longed to be part of this european project. it was on the lips of most of the croats ever since we became independent in 1990. and therefore the national identity which we acquired, in terms of international recognition and finally having our own state after nine centuries, is very strong. we will nurture it and respect it ruža, as you know. but at the same time, trying to build this european project from the perspective of a country that is aware of what war means – and luckily most of your generations in your member states are not aware of this – gives me another argument that this very project should be strengthened by all means, and by consensus if possible.
mr president, it is an honour and a pleasure to discuss, in the presence of the prime minister of croatia, the future of europe. i also think that everything he said to us this morning, about the reference to the fall of the berlin wall and also about our common values, reminds me of the words that the author francis fukuyama said to us precisely after the collapse of communism in his book, 'the end of history', 'the great ideological struggles of the past were over, now that western values have captured the world'. i believe that our future must also be linked to our roots, to the victory over nationalism, to the victory over borders, to the victory over division and hatred, to the victory over all that is connected with totalitarianism. and so i also believe that europe must remain the shield of our values, of the protection of our fundamental rights, as it is also linked to more opportunities for our future.
madam president, markets in certain member states are small, and e-commerce and the digital single market provides endless opportunities for businesses to expand those markets. unfair practices of unjustified geo-blocking often prevent consumers from ordering a product and services in other member states or having to pay higher prices than the locals. the removal of such artificial barriers means that european consumers should be able to purchase products and services from the retailer or supplier of their choice from other member states. they should have wider cross-border access to products and services, and smaller businesses should have access to bigger markets that are potentially more profitable. so, under the new rules, consumers will be able to choose from which website they wish to buy goods or services without being blocked or automatically rerouted to another website due to their nationality, place of residence, or even their temporary location. this is the essence of the geo-blocking proposal that we voted for today.
mr president, my one question concerning the making of adjustments to the seating arrangements in this parliament is this: as a result of these adjustments, will european citizens feel more committed to this parliament? at present, they are not. this parliament and its members project too distant an image among our constituents. participation in the last three elections dropped to close to 43%. given brexit and the openings for eu enlargement, the proposal to maintain national entitlements for seats is the right thing, but then the proposal also is to create new transnational constituencies in order to bring parliament closer to the voters. this approach will have the opposite effect. it will continue to dislocate perceptions about the european parliament away from the daily concerns of citizens, especially in smaller member states. being asked to vote for people they do not know or care about on party lists that cross country borders will sound like a gimmick. chosen by political groups, these meps will only be accountable to their party chiefs, generating a greater distance between voters and elected meps. this distance can probably only be eliminated if members of this house are directly elected and not through their position on party lists whether national or – least of all – transnational.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here on a topic so essential for the european union in the current political context. today, more than ever, the european union needs to guarantee the prosperity and well—being of all its citizens, as well as to overcome the socio—economic inequalities in a fast-changing world. according to opinion polls, more and more citizens across europe feel that they cannot fully profit from the benefits of globalisation. we need to make sure they see that the european union is the solution to their concerns and that it delivers on their expectations. as a result of the effective policy response to the economic crisis by the european institutions and the member states, the eu economy is now firmly recovering. economic growth has returned and unemployment is at its lowest since 2008. nevertheless, social and economic challenges persist across europe. in 2017, 23% of our citizens remained at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion. young people are still especially vulnerable and we really need to focus our efforts on them as they are the future of europe, of our economies and our societies. the consequences of leaving a whole generation without prospects would not only be morally irresponsible, but would have long—standing negative economic and political effects in the decades to come. we need to make sure that young people have better opportunities for education and training, mobility and personal development, and improved access to employment. socio—economic stability and fairness is a pre-condition for social progress and trust in the european union project. as parliament rightly stated in its resolution of november 2017 on combating inequalities, the reduction of inequalities must be one of the main priorities at european level, not only in order to tackle poverty or promote convergence but also as a precondition for economic recovery, decent job creation, social cohesion and shared prosperity. the root causes of socio—economic inequalities are related to a wide range of factors. the scission between rich and poor is widening. labour markets and societies are evolving quickly with new opportunities and new challenges arising from globalisation, the digital revolution, changing work patterns and societal and demographic developments. the industrial revolutions for zero waste and digitalisation are presenting enormous opportunities, but they are also placing extraordinary pressure on skills. in order to overcome existing inequalities based on skills, we need a comprehensive approach. we must fill the digital skills gap and prepare both our citizens and our labour market for change. for this reason, one of our presidency’s four priorities is the digital economy and skills for the future. discrimination and gender inequality are two further factors that contribute to inequalities. the average gender pay gap remains above 16%, and in some member states it is above 20%. our citizens expect us to take action: they rank unemployment and social inequality as the most important challenges the european union has to face. this is also a commitment that we have made at national, european and international level. the leaders of 27 member states recognised in the rome declaration that economic and social inequalities were unprecedented challenges for the european union. they pledged to work towards a social europe which promotes economic and social progress as well as cohesion and convergence. so the key tools to overcome inequalities are the new provisions for training and for the protection of our workers – vocational training helping the redistributive potential of social protection systems. as the current presidency, we look forward to the commission proposal on the new social fairness package expected on 7 march. i would like to express our readiness and willingness to start negotiations on it properly within the council. we also plan to adopt the recommendation on the framework for quality and effective apprenticeships at the march employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco). the signature of the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights is an important step towards reinforcing the social dimension of europe. it provides a compass for action towards better working and living conditions in the european union, hence renewing the process of increasing social convergence. the council has already started to work on the implementation of the pillar. the legislative elements of the package, namely the proposals on work—life balance and on transparent and predictable working conditions, are currently being discussed in the preparatory bodies of the council. as of this year, progress in member states is monitored in the context of the european semester through use of the social scoreboard, in line with one of the recommendations expressed by parliament in its resolution on combating inequalities. furthermore, employment and social affairs ministers will hold a policy debate on closing the gender pay gap, at the march council where the future of social europe post—2020 will also be discussed. i would also like to focus your attention on the fact that some of the roots of socio-economic inequalities lie in natural demographic or regional disadvantages, in relation to which investment in cohesion has a very positive impact. i will listen to your debate, which is also an opportunity to reflect on the consequences of the challenges in front of us. thank you once again for inviting me and for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, the topic of this debate is the consequences of rising inequalities – a topic much-talked about in international fora such as the g20 or the united nations, and of course also in this very house. over the years, we have gained important insights. we know that rising inequalities act as a brake on growth. even competitiveness is reinforced by a more equal society. we also know that rising inequalities come with social by-effects – increased crime rates, decreased health, and lower participation in our democracies. and we see every day how the discontent of citizens that feel left behind, or fear being left behind, is fuelling a populist movement. these are the consequences of rising inequalities. and also for these reasons, reducing inequalities is a priority of the commission. the drivers behind the rise in inequalities are numerous. therefore, our policy response must be multi-dimensional. at european level our message is clear: we have to redouble efforts along the virtuous triangle of investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies, with a focus firmly on social fairness and more inclusive growth. inequalities can only be fought through a combination of good jobs, fair tax systems, and adequate social policies. firstly, it must aim to reduce inequalities in market income, especially by focusing on work. raising skill levels and preparing our people for the jobs of tomorrow is the first way to address inequality in earnings. last year we adopted the new skills agenda. with the right skills, people are better equipped for good-quality jobs with reliable and adequate incomes. moreover, we must create jobs. wherever possible, the commission takes steps to boost job creation. for example, via the capital markets union and the digital single market, not to forget the european investment plan and fund. we also strongly push for reforms that support growth in member states through the european semester. secondly, we need to look at the tax and benefit systems. having a job is not enough to be included, we also have to look at the tax and benefit systems. the re-launch of the common consolidated corporate tax base and the initiatives on tax transparency should contribute to ensuring a fair distribution of the products of growth, income and wealth in our member states. i also want to add the decisions on state aid – i refer to certain tax rulings in certain member states. lastly, we must respond to the rise in inequalities by boosting our social policies. that is why we proclaimed the european pillar of social rights. the pillar’s principles range from wages to social protection systems, from minimum income to gender equality, from childcare to old-age income, and from health care to access to housing. the european semester will play a key role in implementing the pillar on a national level. already in the past, as you know, country-specific recommendations have addressed inequality-related issues. think of the need to improve the adequacy and coverage of safety nets; or think of recommendations on childcare, on education, and on the provision of supporting services. in the current semester cycle, we build on this approach. to give you a glimpse: the country reports will pay special attention to investing in skills and building adequate safety nets and supporting sustainable and inclusive growth. moreover, they will include the social scoreboard that accompanies the european pillar of social rights. the scoreboard contains an indicator on income inequality, but also on skills, childcare, and the impact of social transfers. this is our method of keeping track of member states’ performance on the implementation of the principles of the pillar, making clear that effective social policies are a priority for europe. but we also have something to do, and for its part the commission is also implementing the european pillar of social rights. to increase the rights for the most vulnerable workers, we recently presented a proposal for a directive on transparent and predictable working conditions. to tackle women’s under-representation in employment, and to create a more balanced distribution of caring responsibilities between women and men, we put forward the work-life balance for parents and carers initiative. and we are now working on a social fairness package. the package includes an initiative on improving access to social protection for people employed on non-standard contracts and in various forms of self-employment. this, i believe, is an extremely important step in fighting inequalities. the package also includes a proposal for a european labour authority and a proposal for a european social security number. more details will follow on 7 march. and of course we will continue to use the european structural and investment funds to support the objectives of the pillar. tackling inequality is an imperative for the european union, for economic, social and political reasons. reducing inequalities is the only way to sustain growth and ensure continued competitiveness. it is the only way to ensure that our welfare systems remain sustainable. at the social level, we cannot leave anyone behind, everyone should participate in labour markets and in our societies. at the political level, rising inequalities drive disillusionment in politics and society. people no longer feel in control. the result is the rise of nationalism, protectionism and populism. we need to put the fight against inequalities at the top of our agenda, you are totally right. with the pillar we have done that, but now of course it is time and we have to prove that we are able to implement it.
on behalf of the ppe group. other we all agree that the european union's economy is recovering and growing at a positive rate, but nevertheless, on the other end of the spectrum, there is another reality; the socioeconomic inequality of european citizens. as mrs bulmen said, the gap between rich and poor in the member states is widening and this is a challenge that we european politicians have a duty to take into account because the economic growth that is taking place is not being enjoyed by everyone. the positive effects of this growth are not being felt by everyone. it is essential to identify the tools we need to mitigate this problem. we are currently in a period where member states' national economies are growing and the labour market is improving, but despite this, citizens' wages are still low and not rising proportionately. this means that we do not want to ensure just more jobs, but more jobs under better conditions; quality work, coupled with high-standard education and access to decent medical care, which together help to eliminate the problem of inequality. several studies show that an inclusive and fair society between men and women leads to stronger and more robust economic growth. i am very pleased with the work being done on the commission's proposal, on work-life balance in europe, for which i am responsible, but [we] must work harder to ensure that the needs of our citizens are addressed for the good of all. if we achieve this goal, everyone will benefit from the positive outcomes of inclusion and equality.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the situation in romania remains of concern. we have seen attempts by the government there to suppress the judiciary, to water down anticorruption legislation and to use its electoral majority as an excuse to do as it pleases. i know some people claim and will claim that the european parliament and the commission should not get involved, or try to spin the idea that this is somehow politically motivated. it is a justification that we are seeing used by unscrupulous politicians across the european union who try to excuse the inexcusable. but they are wrong. the eu cannot look away and, for sure, the european people’s party will not do so, because romanians are not any less european than the rest of us. they deserve – as we all do – a country where the rule of law is respected, where corruption is fought, where the courts are protected and where laws are not changed on a whim to suit only those in power. romanians have been on the street for more than a year: as temperatures plummeted and the snow fell, they stood up. they flew european union flags because they believed in europe – a europe that is not only an economic bloc but also a guarantee of common values and shared promises. they believe still. this is not only about romania. this is about all of us. every member state must understand that what happens in bucharest affects people in paris, just as what happens in valetta affects people in stockholm. we are distinct as nations but we are intertwined all the same, and if the rule of law is at stake in any one state, then every single other state is endangered, and that is why the commission is right to act, as it must do everywhere there is a threat. i met with some of the people who are out on the streets in romania: they are teachers and poets and students and pensioners. they are not politicians. they just want a country and a union where justice is blind, where everyone is treated equally before the law, where corruption is eradicated and where winning an election does not mean you are entitled to divide up the country like your personal spoils of war. i will finish by saying thank you for standing up. vă auzim pe stradă. we hear you. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for a good and partially very colourful discussion. just a few comments. many members said that the eib should be more transparent. just to look at this issue from one perspective. if somebody is interested in efsi projects just go to the eib’s website and you can find every single project that has been signed. unfortunately this opportunity is not taken up very often and many meps could spread the good word about what efsi can do in your region or in your country if you could see what the others have already done, how money is being used. the second point. efsi and the eib more generally speaking is a demand-driven bank. so efsi or the eib generally speaking doesn’t send money according to its own decisions. you have to ask. you have to negotiate and then if preconditions are met the company or the public authority can get financing. this is why, for instance, if you look at the difference between bulgaria and romania it is so big. whereas bulgaria is the second biggest beneficiary of efsi funding, romania is one the one of the countries which have barely used efsi opportunities. but you cannot push on a rope, even though we try. the eib is offering technical assistance through the technical investment advisory hub and this is one of the tools we want to use even more in order to make sure that all countries and regions can benefit from efsi financing. many members were worried about climate-related investments and many members said that the eib should finance more climate-related investments. the eib is already now – and correct me, mr hoyer, if i am wrong – but according to my knowledge, the eib is the biggest climate financer when looking at these kind of banks. also efsi 2.0 has already decided to dedicate some 40% of overall investment capacity to address climate change. finally, to our british friends, concerning britain and british businesses: the british business sector is one of the most active users of efsi and the eib has a significant portfolio in britain. british businesses and the public sector have deliberately sought to use efsi and the eib because it had created added value to the british economy.
president of the european investment bank. – mr president, there are so many – sometimes colourful – questions, as the commissioner has said, that i cannot respond individually to each and every one, but i promise you that my people have written everything down, so we will approach you individually in order to answer your questions. let me concentrate on a very few points. number one: the geographical balance of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the lending of the bank in general. if somebody writes big articles in newspapers, comparing the investment volume in the united kingdom with the investment volume in malta, you will be surprised that the uk has more than malta. there’s a little bit in relation to gdp and a little bit in relation to the overall investment activity in a country that has to be observed in that context. so you have to see the figures by gdp or the figures as a percentage of overall investment activity. there, i think we are very good now. secondly, the juncker plan consists of three equally important strands: efsi, advisory services and the institutional and regulatory improvements that the european union needs. the commission, the parliament and the council are working on all three of them, and this is why we take advisory services so seriously, and we cooperate closely on the advisory hub, together with the european commission. for some countries this is, for the time being, the only way to be able to participate in efsi, and where more can be done, we are ready. in some cases where the percentage of investments via efsi or via the eib in general is extremely low, we see also that the overall investment activity – private investment activity – in that country is extremely low. there must be a reason for that and we must address it together. on the third issue, we should remind ourselves of the status of the bank, which emanates from the treaty of rome. there it says that the objective of the bank is to contribute to the forming of an internal market – that was sensational in the year 1957 – and to the levelling-out of regional differences. neither job has been done yet. too much of our gdp in the member states of the european union still follows the rule of the national, local or regional legislation, and not european legislation. so the internal market is not perfect yet, and in addition to that, we still have huge regional differences. this is why cohesion policies are of such importance for us. the accountability / compliance question is extremely serious. we know that we have to continually improve on that, but i think that, in comparison to our peers in the multilateral development institutions and financing institutions, we are second to none. there was a word on crowding-out in the remarks by mr niedermayer and i take that very seriously, because it is my firm conviction that there is no role for a public bank to finance something if that can be financed by private institutions. but let’s be honest: in very many cases it is our engineers (because we are the engineering bank in the world) who check a project, come to a positive conclusion, say it is good project and give the stamp of approval to the project and then, all of a sudden, private investors think it is a good project and say, ‘let’s participate and let us ourselves be crowded-in’. so sometimes the opposite of crowding-out is true: we crowd in. basically, the eu bank is the crowding-in institution in the world. we sell our bonds (eur 70 to 80 billion per year) on the international capital markets, with which we finance all these activities. in addition to that, we never finance more than one third, so this brings you to the level of roughly eur 80 billion of activities, producing eur 272 billion of overall additional investment in europe. we can talk forever about energy lending. the energy policy of the european union, unfortunately, is not set by me, or it would look a little bit different. we finance activities that are in line with the energy objectives of the european union. we are going a little bit beyond that. there is no doubt about that, because our energy lending is energy-source neutral, but still i cannot promise you that some day i will have stopped financing fossil-fuel energy projects. this would not be honest, because the member states of the european union who own us will say that they do not follow that way. on the question of the paris agreement, i must say that we are extremely proud that we were the driving force behind the role of the multilateral development banks in the paris accord, and we still believe that we should continue that role. as a matter of fact, when it comes to green bonds, which were just mentioned, we were the inventors of the green bonds (climate awareness bonds). we are still the largest issuer of climate awareness bonds and we are the ones who are now trying to find ways of expanding the idea of these – let’s say social responsibility bonds – to other areas in order to help finance sustainable development goals and other goals – in particular, for instance, right now when it comes to the ocean conference which is just ahead, where we have to bring a big european contribution to cleaning up the oceans. one final word on brexit. brexit can break my heart, but i think that, whether we like it or not, we have to accept the decision, although sometimes one wonders what had been done in order to give the british people the real picture of what will happen when brexit takes place. it probably will take place, but let’s look at the figures. the united kingdom has paid eur 3.5 billion into the bank over the last 40 years. they will get that back, but the overall volume of indebtedness of the european investment bank is eur 243 billion. with that, the member states of the european union guarantee our projects, which consist of a number of assets of, all in all, close to eur 600 billion. that means that if something goes wrong, the member states have liability here. the united kingdom has a contingent liability of eur 36 billion (or eur 35 point something billion), and that will remain. it is not so that we pay out to the united kingdom – they have never paid in, and if something goes wrong, they have a contingent liability. so these are the facts. unfortunately, mr coburn has already left, because that additional information would probably have been too much.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the treaties stress the need for the union to have an open, transparent and regular dialogue with civil society organisations, and they recognise civil society’s role in the good governance of the european union. we share the view of the european parliament on this topic, that a healthy democracy requires an active and well—developed civil society. the active engagement of citizens is the cornerstone of our open and free societies. only recently, in october 2017, in its conclusions on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights in 2016, the council stated that civil society organisations serve as a watchdog and play an important role in promoting and implementing fundamental rights on the ground. they are irreplaceable in raising awareness of fundamental rights among rights-holders and in supporting their efforts to exercise and defend their rights. to fulfil their task civil society organisations must be enabled to carry out their work. as for external relations, the council reaffirmed that civil society organisations are both actors of governance and development actors in their own right. as such, they are key partners for the successful implementation of the 2030 agenda and the eu global strategy. there are many examples of policy fields where civil society is regularly consulted and integrated by the union in the decision—making process. this is, for example, the case in the work of the european union high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance, the eu forum on the rights of the child, the eu forum on migration and integration, and many others. capacity-building of civil society’s national human rights bodies is supported through eu funding in areas such as anti—racism, anti—discrimination, access to justice, rights of the child, women’s rights, the elderly, disability, etc. as for the council’s work, for several years already there has been a tradition of regular contact and dialogue between the presidencies and civil society. in the programme of the bulgarian presidency we have committed to realising a presidency which is open to citizens. both in the process of preparation and conducting the presidency, we strongly rely on cooperation with civil society and the non-governmental sector, as their intellectual imagination, expert contribution and creative, innovative approach have a very important added value for us. as recently as december 2017, council working parties discussed how to ensure and enhance coherence and possible synergies between the internal and external aspects of civil society policies. the fundamental rights agency participated in that debate. the agency is closely cooperating with civil society and has initiated work on a better understanding of the challenges and positive experiences of civil society organisations in the european union. this work was recently concluded with a report. it stresses that the decision makers need to ensure that the important work of civil society is not undermined through policy and legal changes and funding cuts. the report also contains good practices that are being used to address these challenges. i would like to conclude by stressing that civil society brings forward citizens’ concerns. it represents and supports democracy, human rights, the rule of law, social justice and pluralism. it contributes to the effective and inclusive policies and engages in initiatives to further social inclusion, participatory democracy and governance, both in the european union and also in third countries. therefore it is our legal and political responsibility to guarantee good conditions for a strong civil society in our countries and in the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, i cannot stress enough the importance the commission attaches to the existence of a vibrant civil society, and to a regular and transparent engagement with civil society actors – both as allies and as critical minds. as we can see in several states, elections are not the only sufficient proof of a democracy. a strong civil society is heavily needed. the importance of preserving and protecting the civil society space has become more evident in our time, where fundamental rights and values are under high pressure. indeed, civil society is unfortunately facing pressures in many parts of the eu. i am aware and deeply concerned by these worrying trends, or – as this debate is called – the shrinking space for civil society. it includes funding cuts, stringent regulatory frameworks, lack of involvement in policymaking, or smear campaigns affecting public perceptions of the credibility and legitimacy of civil society organisations and those that fund them. we are monitoring such developments at national level, touching upon the role and functions of civil society organisations. we take very seriously actions by public institutions aimed at deliberately shrinking the capacity and position of action of civil society organisations or attempting to control, delegitimise or stigmatise their work. we will not hesitate to take action when measures are taken in violation of member states’ obligations under the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, as we have already done in the case of hungary. in december 2017, the commission referred hungary to the court of justice concerning its law on foreign-funded ngos. we also continue to provide concrete support, including capacity-building and funding, to raise awareness, encourage advocacy and foster the enforcement of fundamental rights, and we are currently mapping gaps and needs to identify how to further empower civil society and other independent human rights actors, such as national human rights institutions. this takes up a specific request from the european parliament, on the basis of which we are about to launch a feasibility study. this is also a timely moment for the new ideas to feed ongoing reflections on the future eu multiannual financial framework. we are in contact with civil society partners, with the council of europe and with the eu agency for fundamental rights to reflect on how to build on and complement existing research-surveying experiences on how the space for civil society is evolving. all actors have a role to play, be it at national, european or international level, and we are fully committed to playing ours. keeping our civil society strong, independent and pluralistic requires these joint efforts, and we welcome the continued engagement of the european parliament on this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. the role of civil society is crucial in a democracy. on the one hand we see them as the conscience of our society, and on the other they watch to ensure that the powers of the state are used well, properly, responsibly. civil society has always been a protagonist in the development and change of the european union. it brought change and changed the status quo. in poland and romania, civil society led to the collapse of communism. in france, civil society has played a major role in recent history. in malta we also have a vibrant civil society, different organisations working for the protection of media freedom, for the environment and a strong call for justice amongst others. they too, like independent media, face obstacles, threats and intimidation. some may see them as a hindrance to politicians, but the very reason civil society exists is to shake and squeeze politicians. a strong civil society is necessary and essential. without them, democracy is poorer. they are essential for those in power to be accountable, to speak the truth and to behave to the highest standards. so when they are not able to work with complete freedom we have nothing to worry about, and this is the situation. they are under threat as the fundamental rights agency report showed. we need to address the challenges they face. we cannot be silent in the face of situations that should never be acceptable. we cannot be silent when we see that access to funds for certain organisations is being taken away because it is given to others who support the government. we cannot remain silent in the face of threats of legal action, intimidation, violence, bureaucracy to discourage them or laws to undermine their work. member states must adhere to international standards that promote participation in policy development. these are the principles ... (the president suspended the speakers for reasons of time. )
we seem to agree here that civil society really has a crucial role to play in a democratic country because its voice is actually the voice that is instrumental in having a strong society and in having scrutiny on governments and authorities, and even their operation. so in this sense and also pointed out by my colleague roberta metsola it is wrong to have in the member states, also in malta, where civil society appeals are ignored, including appeals concerning a serious governance system, and not only ignored but you have cases where you even have an attempt to discredit them systematically, even through deceptive tactics. civil society must have the right to an opinion, even the right to receive all information, the right to be a real participant in everything that is happening, and so it can never be accepted that civil society is subjected to even tactics that can only be considered as intimidation tactics. i would like to take this opportunity, therefore, to greet civil society here as the voice of those who have no other form of representation. i particularly welcome the work that, for example in malta, is being carried out by the civil society network, precisely to bring forward grievances that reflect the feelings of the maltese people in general.
in writing. – this motion is asking for the consideration of stopping the annual summer—time change of clocks, or at least to allow each member state to decide individually on this matter. one has to note that the concept of daylight saving time (dst) was introduced to save energy. this practice may have made sense in the past when lighting made up the major part of energy consumption in the household. however, today’s energy expenses are different. for example, the cost of air conditioning outweighs the benefits of not needing lighting. energy saving lighting further reduces such expenses. many also argue that dst has negative health effects, leads to productivity loss, and increased risk of accidents. this mainly results from sleep deprivation that takes place until the body gets used to the new timing. studies have shown that this period correlates with increased cardiac arrest rates by 24%, work—related accidents by 6%, traffic accidents by 8% and a productivity loss of nearly 20%. finally, and most essentially, we have to look at the impact dst has on our schoolchildren. i am not happy with seeing kids heading to school in darkness. any change in the current system must give priority to this issue.
madam president, the restavek system in haiti, which uses children as labour, is an unacceptable and intolerable form of slavery and trafficking of children. this is a cause of extreme poverty in one of the poorest countries in the world. in all its forms, child labour does great harm to children themselves and hinders their education and development. but what's happening in haiti is far worse than child labor. it is child slavery that affects one in every fifteen children in haiti, of which 60% are girls. more than 300,000 children are currently enslaved as restaveks in haiti. this is a future generation of haitians who should be lifting the country out of poverty, but instead of being educated and offered a future with dignity and hope for a better life, they are being used as slaves. the problem is that the restavek system is rooted in haitian culture and socially accepted as the norm. i believe that the solution to the restaveks issue lies with the haitian people themselves, but i believe that the european union and the member states have the power to bring about a political change to not ignore our promises and help the country to overcome these challenges.
in writing. – the informal council meeting discussed the make-up of the upcoming european parliament, including the so-called ‘spitzenkandidaten’ process to elect the president of the commission. this issue needs to be given further consideration both by the european parliament and by the council. both sides seem to be making assumptions about democracy and political legitimacy that have little to no resonance among european people. another point discussed was the upcoming multiannual financial framework. given new priorities and the funding vacuum being created through brexit, there is clearly a need to explore other ways of funding. when proposing own resources for eu funding, the economic sensitivities of each member state must be duly respected. similarly, new funding priorities should not downgrade cohesion as a crucial tool of european policy. they must take into consideration the different constitutions of the member states. defence has now emerged for some as a leading priority. the eu as of now is not a military union. defence spending should be kept separate from the common mff. this would allow those that want to participate in a defence union to do so, without imposing additional burdens on those member states wishing to opt out.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you to parliament for putting this issue on the agenda. the commission’s concerns, raised in our three previous recommendations of july and december 2016 and july 2017, have not been addressed and you know what steps we took on 20 december 2017. on 21 december, the polish president signed two new laws on the supreme court and on the national council for the judiciary into law, raising additional grave concerns about the consequences for the independence of the polish judiciary. in a nutshell, within a period of only 2 years, 13 laws were adopted in poland. their cumulative effect is to limit the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers. the entire structure of the justice system is affected, in particular, the constitutional tribunal, the supreme court, the ordinary courts and the national council for the judiciary. the executive and legislative powers can now interfere with the composition, the powers, the administration and the functioning of judicial authorities in a way that, in our view, undermines judicial independence and the separation of powers, and if you undermine judicial independence and the separation of powers, there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law. these concerns are fully shared by a wide range of european and international organisations, including the european networks of the presidents of the constitutional courts, the supreme courts and the highest administrative courts. a particularly informative read, including for the historical context, are the council of europe’s venice commission opinions of december 2017. in light of these developments, the commission adopted on 20 december last year a reasoned proposal for the council in accordance with article 7(1) of the treaty. simultaneously, the commission also adopted a fourth recommendation under its rule of law framework in which we invited the polish authorities to solve the problems identified in that recommendation within three months. the commission also decided to refer poland to the court of justice of the european union for breaches of eu law by the law on ordinary courts. the recommendation sets out clearly a list of steps that the polish authorities can take in order to remedy the current situation. in particular, the commission believes that the polish authorities should address five key concerns, and they could do it as follows: first, by publishing and implementing the three unpublished 2016 judgments of the constitutional tribunal. under the rule of law, no government should be able to decide which court rulings are published, especially if publishing is essential for these rulings to be valid. secondly, by restoring the independence and legitimacy of the constitutional tribunal, by ensuring that its judges, its president and its vice-president are lawfully elected and appointed. the changes over the past two years have led to a complete re—composition of the tribunal outside the normal constitutional process so that it is no longer able to provide effective constitutional review of laws. they could also amend the law on the supreme court so as to not apply a lowered retirement age to the current supreme court judges or the current first president, thereby avoiding almost 40% of its current judges being forced into early retirement. that’s a third option that should be used. also, the discretionary powers of the president of the republic over those judges who wish to stay should be removed, as should the truly extraordinary – so—called extraordinary – appeal procedure that makes it possible to re—open and overturn judgments going back 20 years, not on grounds of new facts but on grounds of social justice. this is unheard of in any member state of the european union. fourthly, they should amend the law on the ordinary court so as to remove the new retirement regime for judges of ordinary courts, including the discretionary power of the minister of justice to prolong mandates of judges that wish to stay. also, the arbitrary and unjustified decisions to dismiss court presidents should be remedied. fifthly, they should amend the law on the national council for the judiciary to ensure that the mandates of current judges—members of that council are not prematurely terminated and that judges—members are elected by other judges and not by politicians. i am pleased to inform you that since january this year, since the new government has been in power, exchanges between the commission and the polish authorities have been taking place again. for the first time in two years, we really have a dialogue, and i think we should continue this at all levels. we met with the prime minister and with the foreign minister: jean—claude juncker met with the prime minister and věra jourová met the foreign minister, so we are intensifying our contact. i really hope that this dialogue will lead to concrete measures which address adequately these five key issues before the end of march because the dialogue, however pleasant and intensive, is only useful if it produces results. i’m really looking forward to poland’s concrete reactions to our recommendation. i cannot overstate the importance of the rule of law for the functioning of the european union. respect for the rule of law is not only a prerequisite for the protection of all the fundamental values listed in article 2; it is also a prerequisite for upholding all rights and obligations deriving from the treaties and for establishing mutual trust of citizens, businesses and national authorities in the legal systems of all other member states. the proper functioning of the rule of law is also essential, in particular, for the seamless operation of the internal market and an investment—friendly environment. let me also draw your attention to the court of justice of the european union’s ruling from yesterday in case c-46/16. the cjeu has clarified the scope of article 2 and article 19 in relation to the need to ensure at national level an independent and effective judiciary. we will examine this judgment very carefully as a basis of our dialogue with the polish authorities. i would like to underline that the commission does not question the right of any member state to reform its judicial system. it is up to member states to define and reform their judicial system. however, whatever the model chosen or reform carried out, full judicial independence should be safeguarded in line with eu law and european standards. you cannot use the argument of needing to reform the judicial system to then introduce political oversight or political control by the executive or the legislative force of the judiciary, which should remain independent. the discussion today and the whole process that we have been engaged in for two years is not against poland, and i’m really quite saddened by the fact that, every time, this is presented as a one—man operation against poland or the polish nation. we have a very strong difference of opinion with this polish government, not with the polish nation. the commission is working for a union with poland and for poland within the union. i’ve said this before in this parliament: i cannot imagine a european union without poland. we need poland and i think poland also needs the european union. (applause) the independence of poland’s judicial system and its respect of the rule of law are essential cornerstones for a strong poland in the european union, for an independent poland, a sovereign poland. there is no contradiction between being a fully fledged, active member of the european union and being a sovereign nation. it’s about time for people who sell this nonsense to be called out. to conclude, the commission has always stressed that upholding the rule of law is a joint responsibility shared among all eu institutions. that is why i’m so glad your parliament has taken the time to look at this so intensively again today. we are now in a new interinstitutional phase which reflects this joint responsibility. yesterday the commission got very vocal and very strong support from an overwhelming majority of member states in the council, and both parties – the polish government and the commission – were urged to continue the dialogue and to come up with concrete solutions to the problem. we are game. the commission wants that to happen and i trust that this parliament will continue to show its strong determination to uphold the rule of law in all of our member states, including poland. that is in our collective interest. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start by saying how upsetting it is to me, to my group and to my colleagues that today we stand here again in the shadow of article 7 discussing poland, the land where solidarity was born in all its senses: solidarity – that force for freedom and independence – which inspired so many in europe to do the same. but we cannot close our eyes to what is happening, not on our watch. we remain seriously concerned about what is going on in poland, and i cannot but express our sincere regret regarding the lack of will on the side of the polish government to even engage in a real, constructive dialogue with the commission, let alone contemplate the changes that are needed. we are here for the sixth time on this issue and we are here not because we want to be or because we want to somehow punish poland. we are here because someone must stand up for the people of poland. we are here because the authorities in poland have shown little sign of moving. rather than work to improve the circumstances and start to rebuild the bridges they have burnt, the situation has deteriorated even further. we have seen countless heads and deputy heads of lower courts fired, often by means of a fax. we have seen the reform of the national council for the judiciary get underway in a manner that, even with so many polish judges resisting, serves to undermine the independence of the judiciary. we have seen poland regress. democracy and the rule of law in poland are being seriously threatened today, and this cannot continue. polish people are looking to us to act, and act we must. the polish government is even going as far as attempting to control historical narratives as a means toward somehow bolstering its own nationalistic aims. europe simply cannot afford to close its eyes to what is happening and so tomorrow’s vote will mean that we fully support the commission’s decision to trigger article 7 for poland. it did not need to come to this, but unfortunately the polish government left us with little choice. our intention is to do everything in our means for poland to come back to the heart of europe. the commission has always made it clear, as we have just heard, that it is willing and ready to talk, but we need concrete results from poland. we need to see respect for poland’s constitution and the independence of its courts. no one wants to push poland away; we have been trying to do exactly the opposite. but being an eu member state means respecting eu values, honouring your commitment to fundamental rights and understanding that an electoral majority does not give you a free hand to do as you please. it means respecting critical voices. if you are a member of the european union, you cannot ignore what it stands for. that is why we will always stand up for the people of poland, the land that gave europe and the world the values of saint john paul ii, the genius of marie skłodowska curie, the music of chopin, the courage of lech wałęsa and so much more. polish heroes are european heroes, and we are one. so i repeat (applause), it is not only about poland. we know that if the rule of law is allowed to collapse anywhere then it has failed everywhere. this is the very nature of our union and we, as the european people’s party, cannot allow it. we also know that there is a huge gap between the rights that we demand as eu citizens and the mechanisms that are available to ensure their protection. it is something that we must address. the situation that we see in poland has again underlined the need for a concrete mechanism that would protect the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights across the european union. our message to poland is clear: do not turn your backs on europe, do not drive a wedge where one does not exist. let us all come back – as we have just heard – to the negotiating table, engage in active dialogue and act on the commission’s recommendations so that the current situation can be remedied as soon as possible. i conclude with this message. we will not – we will never – turn our backs on the people of poland. (applause)
mr president, it is with great interest that at the beginning of next week i will be participating in the 37th session of the human rights council in geneva. we are in a sense celebrating the 70th anniversary of the declaration of human rights. unfortunately, i am not so sure that the word 'celebration' is always correct because 70 years later we are talking about such human rights violations and so that is a statement that remains relevant. i note with satisfaction that when we look at the council conclusions on what we should prioritise, we also find an emphasis on the media. we know that the murder of journalists, we had in the case of malta the murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia, we have been talking for days about the murder of the slovak investigative journalist which also reminds us of a fundamental point about this fundamental right that when journalists, and there are countries that are being mentioned, are threatened, are placed in a situation where they cannot exercise their rights, it is that right denied to all the people who no longer have access to the information they want.
mr president, yes, during the past year we have seen that the employment situation in the european union is improving. we are also seeing less poverty in europe and less social exclusion as the commissioner rightly said, but is this enough? certainly not. of course as mentioned before we have a high rate of young workers who are not finding work. we have a problem of child poverty, as my colleague lambert has said, but of course we must go on and not stop there. we need to continue to see investment, for example, become one that sees improvements in product and service markets and this to lead to long-term growth and also to help make public spending more sustainable. we need to look at how to help small and medium-sized companies because they naturally create a lot of jobs in europe. we must see our economy and its development move in line with social realities beyond the politics of populism, but we must recognise that the strength of our economy depends on how well we treat the economy in the realities that currently exist in europe. i think that if we work together and do not go to either extreme, the successes we had during this last year will repeat themselves next year, god willing.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, in 2017, internet access reached 51% of the world’s population. devices connected to the internet reach 8.4 billion worldwide. with the number of targets expanding at such rates, cybercrime is likely to become the world’s number one threat, capable of causing serious economic damage estimated at no less than usd 6 trillion over the next two years alone. cybercrime and the criminal use of the internet violate privacy and human rights. they jeopardise the integrity of our data, attack the security of our critical infrastructures and seek to disrupt the provision of services vital for our security and economy. these are serious threats and they require our full and immediate attention. already in 2013, the first eu cybersecurity strategy prioritised the fight against cybercrime. since then, we have been constantly expanding the efforts we make to improve our resilience and our preparedness to counter these threats, so that citizens and businesses can fully enjoy the benefits of cyberspace. allow me to briefly outline some of the efforts which demonstrate the prominent place that the matter occupies on our political agenda. the ambitious cybersecurity package presented by the commission on 13 september 2017 was followed by a set of council conclusions and an action plan for their implementation. they emphasise the need to enhance the eu’s capacity to prevent, deter and respond to cyber—attacks. in this regard, they encourage the exchange of best practices, investment in cybersecurity training, awareness raising and cyber hygiene. as part of this package, the council has also started examining the proposal for a cybersecurity act that addresses the need for a strong and permanent mandate for enisa, referred to as the eu cybersecurity agency, and for enhancing the eu cybersecurity certification to promote the availability of secure products and services. we are happy that the work on this file is progressing steadily in parallel with the work in parliament. we are confident that the constructive dialogue will allow a swift closing of the negotiations and the timely adoption of the act. i would also like to recall that in september last year, the very first digital summit took place in tallinn, allowing our political leaders to give strategic directions for future work in the digital domain. they confirmed the strong commitment of the european union to fight cybercrime and the criminal use of the internet. this is part of the overall aim of making europe a global leader in cybersecurity by 2025, in order to ensure the trust, confidence and protection of our citizens and businesses online. thus, it is not surprising that discussion has concentrated on the need to achieve the highest level of resilience for digital infrastructure, industries and services, to create a competitive advantage and to attract investment. this was further developed by the october 2017 european council, which placed combating terrorism and online crime among the prerequisites for successfully building a digital europe together with a common approach to cybersecurity. i do not want to prolong my intervention, so i will limit myself to mentioning a number of other relevant initiatives including the eu internal security strategy 2015—2020, which also prioritised the prevention of and fight against cybercrime as one of the three priorities of eu internal security. secondly, the eu policy cycle, which is aimed at tackling the most important threats to the eu posed by organised and serious international crime, including cybercrime. i could also mention cyber dialogues between the european union and key international partners, as well as cyber diplomacy on which the council adopted conclusions in june 2017 towards a joint eu diplomatic response to malicious cyber activities. very positive news is that, on 9 march 2018, ministers reached a general approach in the council on the directive on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. the directive aims to update the current rules to ensure that a clear robust and technology-neutral legal framework is in place. it also eliminates operational obstacles that hamper investigations and prosecutions and provides for actions to enhance public awareness of techniques such as phishing or skimming. trilogues are now ready to start as soon as you have your mandate from parliament’s side. finally, let me conclude by briefly mentioning that in may this year, we expect member states to finalise the transposition of the 2016 nis directive. it is the first legislative act that seeks to achieve a high common level of security of network in the information systems within the european union and to improve the functioning of the internal market by creating trust. let us keep in mind that strong and trusted encryption is of high importance, not only for establishing and maintaining such trust, but also for assuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. their protection, including in cyberspace, is our paramount task and joint responsibility.
member of the commission. – mr president, as we have heard, today it is not just computers and phones that are connected, but our homes, hospitals, governments, electricity grids, the news we read and the cars we drive. so we have to take cyber-attacks against our systems very seriously. they can have a huge economic impact. we have heard some of the examples. bank and credit card fraud in the eurozone alone amounts to some eur 1.5 billion a year. every month, one in five industrial computers are attacked. aviation systems are subject to an average of 1 000 cyber-attacks a month. but the threat continues to evolve and change. it is becoming more strategic. cyber means have been used to undermine democratic institutions, to spread disinformation and to cast questions over elections. the internet of things means that tens of billions more devices are going online. this will inevitably create a huge number of extra potential vulnerabilities, and at the same time potential new tools to perform cyber-attacks. so what from the commission side are we proposing to do about this? first of all, we continue to support member states in the implementation of the nis directive, as we have heard, ahead of the transposition deadline in may. this will ensure operators of essential systems assess risk, prepare a strategy, and properly protect their systems. some member states are also extending these measures beyond the critical sectors already set out in legislation to other sectors at risk, in particular public administrations. the nis directive will also boost national capabilities and competence to promote the exchange of information about threats and incidents. in parallel, we are continue the implementation of the action set out in the cybersecurity package presented last september, based around strengthening resilience, creating effective deterrents and reinforcing international cooperation. the cyber security act, which this house and the council are currently discussing, focuses on making us more resilient. it aims at giving enisa a permanent mandate and it is setting up an eu-wide framework for cybersecurity certification systems, again as we have heard. from the commission side, we are convinced that a european certification process is an important step towards creating security by design. the commission, the european parliament and the council have agreed that this is a priority file and it is of paramount importance that negotiations are concluded within the current mandate of parliament. making us more resilient also means making sure the eu retains and develops essential capabilities to secure its digital economy infrastructure and society and democracy. to this end, we have announced the creation of a network of european cybersecurity competence centres to reinforce capabilities across europe and overcome the current fragmentation of research, with the cybersecurity research and competence hub at the heart of that. the network should bring together research and expertise in cybersecurity from across the european union and lead to the scaling-up of existing research and technological capacities in the competence centres in member states, while making sure that research is transformed into specific products and services that will directly increase our cybersecurity. on 1 february, the commission launched a call for proposals for a eur 50 million pilot project to support the creation of this network, an important step in its development. however, as we stressed in our joint communication last september, it is crucial to complement our efforts to build resilience with efforts to build effective deterrents. we need to make sure that cybercrime does not pay. that means making it easier to detect and easier to prosecute. as long as there is little or no chance of getting caught, cybercrime will remain an all-too-attractive option for criminals and hostile governments alike. we have already proposed a directive to strengthen the ability of law enforcement authorities to combat fraud and the counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. to tackle barriers to prosecution, we are also working on a legislative proposal on obtaining electronic evidence for criminal investigations and prosecutions. over the last two years we have carried out an extensive consultation process and conducted an impact assessment. this issue is complex and requires a carefully balanced approach, having an efficient instrument from law-enforcement point of view, while ensuring full respect for fundamental rights, data protection and ensuring legal certainty for business. i am confident that we will soon present a solid legislative proposal for consideration by the co-legislators. in parallel, we are advancing work on our practical measures to simplify cooperation between judicial authorities and cooperation between our law-enforcement authorities and service providers, based on the existing legal framework. this includes cooperation inside the european union and with our key international partners, notably the united states. the commission also actively participates in the ongoing preparatory work in the council of europe on the possible additional protocol to the budapest convention on cybercrime, which will deal with cross-border access to e—evidence. on the side of operational efforts that have been underlined, we are beefing up capacity at europol’s cybercrime centre. law-enforcement capacities need to keep pace with fast-changing technological tools and cybercriminals’ ways of working. this means more cooperation and sharing of experience and reinforced cyber-forensics and detection capabilities. a strong cooperation framework with external partners is of the utmost importance, given the global nature of the threat. the europol cyber-crime centre provides technical and forensic support to a number of international investigations which have led, for instance, to the take-down last summer of two of the largest criminal dark web markets. aside from making ourselves more resilient and building more deterrents, we need stronger international cooperation to make cyberspace stable and secure. this is why the cybersecurity package has an important international dimension. in order to shape this international cooperation, the eu has ongoing cyber-dialogues in place with the united states, japan, india, south korea, china and brazil. through these cyber-dialogues, the eu promotes the application of existing international law, the implementation of universal norms of responsible state behaviour, and regional cyber-confidence-building measures, as well as the international cooperation through the budapest convention on cybercrime. the dialogues allow for the enhancement of cooperation with third countries to strengthen global cyber-resilience and the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance, as well as to advance the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. they contribute to global cyber-stability, including through the exchange on responses to malicious cyber-activities that should encourage cooperation, facilitate mitigation of immediate and longer-term threats, and influence the behaviour of potential aggressors. on all these proposals my colleagues and i are actively working with you for the speedy adoption and implementation of initiatives on the ground, and look forward to continuing this fruitful cooperation, to the benefit of all our citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start by thanking you, commissioner, for your work on this issue. you will find us as a strong partner to continue to work forward on such an important subject, because the spike that we witnessed in online crimes over the last years should concern us all. cybercrime and criminals have become more organised, more brazen and more serious. they are using the very tools that we have created to make people’s lives easier against us. we have seen computer systems that we thought impregnable hacked. we have seen the spread of government-controlled social media trolls blur the lines between propaganda and views. there are still too many credit cards and identities stolen and far too many children remain exploited. tools created for the good of mankind, and which are largely used for good, are being abused, and we must respond by closing the loopholes. with the increasing number, nature and gravity of cybercrime, with the increasing prevalence of the dark net, we need more and better coordination between member states at international level, as well as with the private sector, to protect eu citizens, companies and our critical infrastructure. we need to ensure that our law enforcement authorities are provided with the necessary tools, resources and staff in order to effectively investigate and prosecute cybercrimes, and that this is done in full respect of fundamental rights and privacy expectations. from here, let me call on the member states which have not yet done so, to ratify the council of europe convention on cybercrime – as we call it, the budapest convention. we have to work together and, of course, we need europol, cepol, eurojust and enisa to be granted sufficient resources and tools in order to allow them to build the necessary capabilities to cope with the increasing workload and to continue their valuable work in the area of cybercrime. finally, together i know that we can find the solutions that keep people and companies secure online and respect citizens’ privacy, and go after the criminals who think that they can mask their identities. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we have been hearing today that digital technologies are an integral part of our daily life and the backbone of our economies. this makes it more crucial for the european union to continue to equip itself with strong cybersecurity legislation, whilst investing in further research on how to protect citizens online. i believe that this is our opportunity to train young ict experts who can combat this phenomenon and the crimes we are facing now and also the crimes of the future. cybersecurity is not about infrastructure alone. it is also about educating users on the risks that they will be facing in cyberspace. the matter is more urgent since a number of public services across the eu are now available online. all it takes sometimes is just a click of a button or a password that is too easy to crack. my message today to the commission and european governments is that it is not enough to arm yourselves with unhackable infrastructure. educate citizens to think then click, not the other way round.
today we are talking about the murder of a journalist, jan kuciak. we in malta also experienced the murder of a journalist, daphne caruana galizia. there were those who had every interest to devote their lives to bringing an end to what they were doing. investigations into corruption links and networks, and money laundering investigations are a hindrance to those who want to uncover the truth. it is a hindrance to those who wish to conceal the facts. it is a barrier to those who want to get rich by illegal means. the leaders and those charged with investigating these murders have a heavy burden on their shoulders. the roots of what led to the murders we know. we know that weak institutions and the failure to enforce the law are poison to society and vitamins to criminals. the mechanism for european citizens to have peace of mind about democracy, the protection and application of the law and human rights is becoming more urgent. this mechanism needs to be country-specific and to enter into force rapidly. journalists are paying a high price. they are paying with threats of legal action, court cases, intimidation and even murder as we have seen in malta and slovakia. in the meantime and we need action, we will continue to fight corruption wherever it is, we will insist on independent and serious institutions. and here i end, the regatta should be for everyone. everywhere. we are all for ján and we will never stop fighting for justice for daphne.
madam president, today we join the slovak people in condemning unreservedly the murder of the journalist jan kuciak. the state of any democracy is measured by the freedom and safety of that country's journalists and in europe it is not currently a good one. until recently we were discussing the murder of the maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia and the two cases are very similar; corruption, abuse of power and a culture of impunity. what happened to jan and daphne unfortunately cannot be changed but what can be changed is the protection we offer journalists. abusing legal systems to put a stigma on journalists has no place in the european union and we are therefore asking the commission to propose laws against the use of slap. i welcome the words of vice-president timmermens that the commission will work to combat this abuse. let us honour the memory of daphne and jan by continuing their work and protecting what they stood for.
the murder of journalist ján kuciak just months after the murder of daphne caruana galizia raises the serious question of how well the media is protected in europe. it raises the issue mentioned by several speakers about how much we are watching investigative journalists. of course, i am also struck by the fact of the different political developments in slovakia and malta because, in slovakia you had the resignation first of the minister of culture, now also the resignation of the deputy prime minister responsible for internal affairs and the fact that malta has continued to go on 'business as usual' seems to be the norm even though we still do not know who ordered the murder of daphne caruana galizia seems to be the norm. against all those who wanted to silence journalists we must send a clear message that this parliament is here to defend the right to freedom of expression, not only of journalists but of all peoples; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused.
it is interesting to share with you that just as it was done in other countries through the save european youth orchestra campaign, in the city of valletta in malta, now the european capital of culture, two years ago a protest was held by maltese musicians playing music to ask the european union to continue to financially support the european union youth orchestra. it is good that the musicians' appeal is heard also because it is music that is part of our cultural identity and through music we are sending a message of unity, a message of peace. i share a thought that is dear to my heart, the thought expressed by one of the founders of the european union, jean monnet, who said 'if i do it again i would begin with culture'. it is also important, however, that the orchestra now looks for new methods of funding to ensure that it remains sustainable because after all the year 2020 is not so far away and i also welcome the emphasis made in the report on the need for a transparent selection of musicians from different european countries. finally, as regards the creative europe programme, i would like to call for more and more ways of supporting cultural life, because cultural life goes beyond the economic sphere and, in my view, represents our true identity and soul as europeans.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i have always believed that we need very strong policies to make sure that we deliver on our climate obligations. i am strongly convinced, however, that we did not manage to deliver this in the effort sharing regulation or climate action regulation, call it what you may. it comes as no surprise that i am critical of the final agreement reached, because i believe that this agreement falls short of what is actually needed. as socialists and democrats, we will be abstaining on the final deal, in the same way that we did in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because the deal reached is far less than what is needed and far less than what can be achieved. i believe it keeps us from embarking on a truly low-emissions development pathway. i acknowledge the efforts made by the rapporteur, gerben—jan gerbrandy, but i would like to highlight what i consider to be an evident lack of ambition and lack of initiative throughout the negotiations, particularly by the council, but also at times by the commission itself. i have always considered the commission to be an honest broker that plays a fundamental role in climate policy. that is why i call upon the commission to enhance its role and make sure that member states play their part because all of them – i repeat, all of them – should share in the efforts to address climate change. the two—faced approach, where national leaders make fancy statements at climate summits, but then show very little ambition where it counts, should cease.
thanks chair and thanks to s&d rapporteur simona bonafè, who managed to conclude a set of circular economy laws that consumers, smes, larger industries, and even member state governments can benefit from. visualize in 2018, an economy that just uses things and throws them away. a garbage-creating economy. this is a waste-creating economy. the impact would be devastating, not only for the environment but equally important for the quality of our lives as citizens. although this scenario may seem too remote, the truth is that we have many member states that need to increase their recycling targets and need to go through a radical change in mindset. we need to get to a stage where product design is based on product need, where when we extend the life of the product, we are seeing that product become the material for something else, where our young people see an opportunity to use their creativity and be innovative. the policies are there. whether these policies succeed or not depends now on how well the same member states manage to implement the decisions taken today to have a positive impact tomorrow, tomorrow.
madam president, i think it is relevant that this evening's debate is taking place exactly six months after the assassination of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia in malta. the report correctly refers to women investigative journalists and says how they are often subjected to more violence and more systematic attacks. in the case of daphne, even before her murder, you had government officials referring to her as a witch, you had the attacks against her, even when there was the seizure of her money, and even when there were actions to try to discredit what she was doing, even with precisely targeted comments on her as a woman. we are speaking out against the attack on stereotypes. she was certainly a force against it because she was the best investigative journalist, and today we are proud that her writing continues to be investigated by a consortium of 45 journalists from 18 different media houses.
madam president, i think we all agree that civil society is a very important voice to serve as a means of scrutiny of governments. and this becomes even more important when you have institutions that are supposed to be independent, but they're governed by the government, and so they're not doing their job. let me give two recent examples from malta. we've had environmentalists go out and protect areas that are supposed to be off-limits to development to remain protected as environmental areas. we also had activists working to bring out the full truth about the murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia. in both cases you had difficulties instead of government aid. therefore, there is a need for civil society to help it, including through a financial instrument. why is that? because that is the voice of those who have no other forms of participation, and that is the voice, yes, that can defend the european values on which our identity, the rule of law, democracy and even our protection of all fundamental rights is based.
the use of chemical weapons is one of the greatest threats to humanity. a horrible act. but attacks by the united states, together with the united kingdom and france, could lead to a dangerous escalation of this conflict. these attacks have the potential to prolong the conflict in syria rather than end it. there is a risk that they could continue to make things worse for the families and children still there. i have not yet seen a collective effort to properly protect syrian citizens, nor have i seen the seriousness of a diplomatic offensive that matches the military one with the aim of finding a solution to the syrian conflict. the european union must be united and must be at the forefront of pushing forward an international strategy for peace, and i believe it also has the duty to negotiate a long-term plan to stop the use of chemical weapons. so far air strikes have not led to any solution in syria and i am still not convinced to this day that they will be the solution from now on.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, ms mogherini has had to leave to catch her flight due to her mission in the western balkan region. i followed your interventions. i share the same concerns as all of you about the escalation of violence in syria, in particular during the last months and especially the current situation. as ms mogherini has already emphasised, we need urgently to return to the political process. the un secretary—general, and of course the un special envoy, warned of the risk to the entire middle east and europe if the conflict in syria continues and expands. we need to use all our means to request an immediate ceasefire followed by unconditional humanitarian access, leading to a return to the political talks. the european union remains committed to supporting the geneva process, providing assistance to the syrian opposition to be able to remain engaged and committed to the political talks, and to assisting syrian civil society. as the european union, we will continue to invest to support the capacity of syria for constructive social and political change, now and in the future. at the same time, the brussels conference in the next week is an initiative which will definitely also include humanitarian perspectives, as well as diplomatic efforts in order to reach this ceasefire. i would also like to say that the european union has remained the biggest humanitarian donor in the syrian crisis since the beginning of this crisis.
in writing. – the war in syria is one of the worst humanitarian crises that the world has faced since world war ii. the seven-year conflict continues despite several international efforts to achieve a ceasefire and lay the basis for a negotiated solution. the recent toxic gas attack on douma was part of a sustained and ultimately successful regime assault on one of the last rebel-held areas in syria, killing around 80 people and injuring hundreds. the humanitarian situation in the country remains devastating, where 13 million people, including 6 million children, are in need of humanitarian aid. it is a matter of the utmost urgency to allow access for our partners to deliver the long—awaited humanitarian assistance. the european union needs to act collectively through its high representative and take the lead in the international efforts to find a diplomatic solution, calling for an immediate ceasefire, access to people in need and particularly the most vulnerable populations, humanitarian deliveries and the protection of civilians, civilian infrastructures such as schools and hospitals, relief aid workers and facilities. this is of the utmost importance!
mr president, i was shocked by the cambridge analytica scandal that affected so many millions of people in the eu and the us. sometimes it feels like we are living in a reality closer to that imagined by orwell or huxley than perhaps we would care to believe. this is an era where data is the new gold and where unscrupulous politicians and those who support them will use and abuse our personal information to make their propaganda appear as fact, to help swing elections and referenda and to essentially subvert democratic processes. this scandal is not only about misuse of data. this is about systems that were built for good being used against us. we need to ensure that elections and referenda that look free on the surface are actually so in reality. we built our data protection regulation and privacy shield precisely because of these threats, and our legislation must be able to face this test and any entity responsible for breaches must be held to account. we have to examine the loopholes that still exist and how these can be closed, because people expect privacy online and we must ensure that their expectations are met. cambridge analytica has a lot to answer for. we have seen how they have abused our data in the us, the uk and many member states, including my own, malta, where we learned that thousands of people had been affected. in many cases, we still do not know who the people who hired cambridge analytica were and for what purpose the 6 000 maltese nationals’ and millions of eu citizens’ data was harvested. the links between the abuse of data and our democratic processes must be investigated. i welcome the parliament initiating such a process.
if anyone ever had any doubts about the security of our data online, we now have confirmation that there are companies that are collecting and selling our information to different organizations. in countries, in malta, 90% of citizens use social media, 6,000 of us were targeted, but it wasn't just the maltese. some 2.7 million european citizens are thought to have been victims. we are therefore asking you, commissioner, and the european commission to be strong and to demand clear and direct answers from facebook and cambridge analytica. the general data protection regulations are a good step, but they are not enough in such a case because we are talking about the protection of personal communications and online privacy. for such cases we need to have the eprivacy regulation. my appeal to the council, to the member states: this is an urgent matter. they do not lead to a weak position that is advantageous only to large companies. it is your responsibility to keep this regulation strong for the benefit of the citizens you represent and who you are supposed to protect.
mr president, two and a half years after diesel gate - more than ever before - this is the time to make sure we get results. and this law, which we as socialists and democrats have worked so hard on, provides a new system for vehicle approval and market surveillance that can, yes, be powerful. here i would also like to thank the commission because the agreement we have now has the potential to ensure that the checks, safeguards and transparency, which are missing from the current system, and which we so badly need, actually come into effect. if properly implemented, this law could help protect the environment while also helping the car industry regain consumer confidence. sustainability should be the main framework of all our plans and policies. now we need to see these plans and policies properly implemented, because only this can ultimately ensure that people really get what they pay for, and that our citizens do not pay the price for cars that pollute far more than they should.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, increasingly, competition policy is taking a greater importance in the eu’s profile. one hopes that this is not happening for the wrong reasons. in principle, competition policy is meant to ensure that free market rules apply to the benefit of consumers all over europe. in practice, given that historically the role of national governments in europe has been a crucial element of economic development, the focus has frequently been – and still is, as we have just heard – more on questions relating to state aid than on matters arising from corporate competitive strategies. in this, it has been difficult to avoid one—size—fits—all approaches that failed to discriminate – and still fail to discriminate sufficiently – between north and south, island and metropole, peripheral and central. the privatisation of major infrastructural functions, such as in transport and utilities and now public health, has simply been seen as economically desirable if cast in competitive format. but the social impact, as well as some economic ones, have not been given sufficient attention. now, the emphasis is also shifting towards state aid considerations with regard to taxation policies. such policies are still subject to the sovereignty of member states, but competition policy is being deployed to oversee and correct for them. one gets the impression, in fact, that the rules and methods by which this is being done are created on the hoof – basically, on a case-by-case basis. tax flexibility within member states under conditions, of course. a full transparency should be considered as an integral part of the competitive situation and is vital for the prosperity of smaller member states and the single market. it will be a pity if competition policy comes to be driven according to the urgings of the tax populace while pushing for harmonisation of tax policies, and we have no problems with choosing competition policy to achieve this. however, we should watch out. the approach, apparently progressive, could serve to perhaps screen another reality at a time when european economies are again growing well: working and middle-class people as well as pensioners are not being compensated for the sacrifices they had to make during years of austerity. they will not be consoled by being told that, in the interests of competition, taxation within the union should be harmonised.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues in this parliament for referring again to the case of daphne caruana galizia. i mean, today you have 25 journalists from around the world who are continuing to investigate the stories that she was working on. it is only in this way that the investigative work of journalists such as daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak has continued to be protected, because when such journalists are suspended from their work, what is happening is an attack against the whole of society to prevent us from receiving the truth to which we are entitled. i would say that in malta, the government, instead of trying to find out who is really responsible for the murder of daphne caruana galizia, continues with such activity as justifying the slapp which is a procedure used against journalists from doing their job. in such circumstances it is our duty in this european parliament to continue to defend investigative journalism because it is built on freedom of expression. the intention to close with it is, it is only in this way that we do not allow those who want to defend these journalists also defend the truth that they were investigating.
in writing. – there are contradictory factors within the commission proposal for the multiannual financial framework. rightly, it features worries about the sizeable gap in eu budgetary resources that brexit leaves behind. for this reason, the proposal diminishes crucial spending dedicated to cohesion, as well as agriculture. nevertheless, proposals for new funding priorities appear. the defence fund features prominently here. although defence is and should remain a national competence, this new fund could be soon eating from money other long established funding programmes. moreover, bundling tax-based own resources in the form of a ccctb within an agreement on the new mff is dangerous. many countries are clearly against an eu-level system in the field of corporate taxation. this proposal could lead either to conflict or stalemate. concerning the criterion used when calculating the allocation of cohesion funds, unemployment, climate change and migration will now also be considered as relevant indicators. but the geographic position of regions, especially insularity, is not to be disregarded. finally, agreeing on a final package by may 2019 will be difficult and democratically questionable. while preparatory work should now be finalised, meps elected in 2019 will, following the political campaign and elections, have the democratic mandate to vote the financial package.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, last april the commission identified a series of actions to be urgently taken or better implemented by the eu and its member states to strengthen the protection of the high number of migrant children arriving in europe, many of them unaccompanied. the commission and the eu agencies fully support member states in implementing these actions. in the meantime, large numbers of children continue to arrive to europe. according to the latest data published by the united nations high commissioner for refugees in march this year, between january and september 2017, 25 379 children arrived in greece, italy, spain and bulgaria. of those, 58% were unaccompanied or separated children. the arrival of unaccompanied and separated children has actually increased by 25% compared to the first half of 2016. the challenges identified in our communication and its recommendations are therefore still very relevant and very important. it is time to ask what has been achieved by the member states so far in terms of implementing the communication and the recommendations of the commission. over the past year, the commission and the eu agencies stepped up the work to support member states to reinforce the protection of migrant children. however, child protection for migrant children is still fragmented – as you rightly pointed out – across member states. a number of challenges still need to be addressed, following also our recommendations, in order to make the policy on the protection of children in migration tangible and consistent. overall, i cannot agree with the opinion that we have done nothing, but i also fully admit that we must do much better. we still need to take a big step forward to improve cross-border cooperation as well as communication on aspects concerning migrant children. we monitor progress achieved in the implementation of the communication also through bi-annual joint meetings with the representatives from the member states. the next meeting is scheduled to take place in early june this year, and we will pass the same messages there too. more generally, we need to find the right balance between the effective eu migration management policy and ensuring adequate protection for the most vulnerable. in order to meet these challenges the commission will continue to prioritise the protection needs of migrant children in eu funding. our financial support should also reach the regional and local authorities, which have a key role with respect to integration and social inclusion measures including access to formal, inclusive education and non—discriminatory access to other services.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the situation we are facing with the migrant children is heart-breaking and horrifying in equal measure. last year, some 15 000 unaccompanied children arrived on our shores, lost and alone. many of these children were put in a boat by their parents, who knew the risks and who did it anyway because a choice between fire and water and between certainty and some hope is no choice at all. this issue is the litmus test of the strength of our european way. it is being put to the test and we have two choices. do we double down on our values or do we turn our backs? the populists would turn and then manipulate the issue to try to get elected. i say that the time to pander to them must end. i am a proud maltese christian democrat. i am also unashamedly a pro-life politician – probably one of the few – but it would be utterly hypocritical of me, or of anyone like me, to speak out for the unborn, but then turn our backs on children fleeing syria, starvation or hopelessness just because they were born elsewhere. by all means let’s have all the necessary security verification procedures in place, let’s close all the loopholes and let’s ensure identification, but let’s also counter the thinking that leads so many people to believe that these children are somehow so different from our own that we allow them to become scapegoats and cheap electoral punch bags. as has been said, unaccompanied children need guardianship, not prison guards, playpens and not barbed wire. they need child rights protection officers, respect, books and access to education. we have the resources to do this. states have a legal obligation to do this, and we must ensure that they do.
i speak today as a representative of gozitan; the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. gozo has benefited from european funds to take initiatives in the social, employment and education fields and to carry out various infrastructure projects, but much remains to be done. at national level, the present government needs to invest more in gozo urgently and consistently. there are certain needs, including in accessibility, technology, travel, transport and education, that cannot wait any longer. at european level, as we move towards the next budgetary debate for the member states, we must ensure that the union takes account of the special circumstances of the islands. thus, the needs of gozo will be addressed more and in less time. we want the island of gozo to be a job-creating island, so that no gozitan is forced to leave gozo. the priorities of the gozitan people must be our political priorities. that is why i am here, that is why i speak on behalf of all the members.
the fact that we took this vote today is certainly significant to me because, as we know, we took this vote on the very day of the world day for the protection of freedom of the press and the media. it is therefore also an occasion, as some of my predecessors have said, to remember today journalists like daphne caruana galizia, like ján kuciak, who are journalists who sacrificed their lives in the search for freedom and in the search for the whole truth, to pass it on to the people. i would like to remind you that when journalists are eliminated, it is also the rights of the whole society that are eliminated, because that society loses that source of crucial information. when today investigative journalists - like those who are continuing the work of daphne caruana galizia in malta - uncover fraud and corruption, we recognise their need all the more. it is a shame when some member states try to discredit these journalists instead of honouring them.
in fact, any policy must not only address today's challenges but must also see how to prepare the best path for the future to truly enjoy modern, safe and clean transport; and i will focus on a key aspect of the proposals: reducing emissions from large cars such as trucks. these targets to reduce emissions are a positive step forward considering that to date we have no standards similar to those of other countries, even on other continents. it is true that lorries and heavy duty vehicles account for less than five per cent of vehicles on european roads but they are responsible for almost twenty-five per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions on our roads and we cannot do anything about it otherwise they will continue to increase. now, if we really want to work towards better air quality, then we must reduce not only the emissions from small cars but also the emissions from large trucks; and this is another sector where competition from outside europe is strong with the production of electric trucks and buses. i hope that these proposals will lead to european manufacturers working much harder to move towards cleaner cars with more modern technology and to have the adequate infrastructure with the european union as a whole.
mr president, one of the criticisms in our countries is that europe is too bureaucratic and too rigid, so it is important that we are able to illustrate what eu funds do for people every day. take migration and asylum. we are dealing with an issue that has, in many quarters, been hijacked by a populist narrative. we have to be proactive – throwing money alone will not solve anything. we need to see real political will to move forward – but funds are needed. the tripling in budget is an important sign that we stand ready to address this challenge. it will help to both manage our borders, with an additional 10 000 border guards, and respond to those in need of protection. more flexibility means being able to respond effectively to unpredictable geopolitical realities. this was badly needed. on regionality, we have to make sure no citizens are left behind. i am referring specifically to islands like gozo, where economic growth has not matched malta’s. this cannot be ignored when it comes to eu funds. and finally on erasmus. doubling the funds is good, but it’s still not enough for our flagship programme that shapes hearts, minds and futures of young europeans. let’s be bold and reaffirm our european ideas – and there’s no better place to do that and start than from erasmus.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, madam president, i too would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the outcome of the negotiations led by elisabeth morin-chartier and agnes jongerius. of course, we had a difficult exercise. we started with a range of positions but, after all these months, parliament has managed, together with the council, to reach this compromise which will be a good compromise to naturally have a directive that will contribute strongly to a freer and fairer labour market. this is the moment we have all been waiting for. because, as i said before, we all wanted to have regulation that made life easier for both the market and our workers. and we need to have a free market, and so today we have a responsibility, on each and every one of us, to see that what we have worked so hard for, is today accepted and accepted successfully.
mr president, if we are to talk about the future of agriculture, we cannot fail to emphasise young farmers and young peasants. in smaller member countries, such as malta, the land problem is even greater. i hear from many young farmers or people who want to enter agriculture, and they speak precisely to what the report says that there are studies showing that the biggest obstacle to entering this sector is the lack of land; and in a small country the land shortage is even greater. there was a video recently about a young farmer from gozo who talked about how much he wanted to grow the sector further - sheep farming in this case - but he needed easier access to funds, including european funds. so if we really want the future for this sector, let's cut red tape, let's provide more funding, let's link the whole future of agriculture with young people and new people in this sector.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i begin by thanking the rapporteur for this report and today we are hearing a lot of variations, in particular i would say a certain amount of extreme extremism. we are talking about uncontrolled immigration of nothing, when in reality, today, more than ever, we are working to really have a balance. i refer to what we have done this year, together with mep coelho, on the reform of the european commission on the schengen information system. because this is a reform through which we want to ensure greater cooperation between member states to, yes, ensure the security of the european union as a whole. and that is where we are in the final stages of concluding legislation aimed at ensuring the exchange of information on potential threats. but, and this is something that was also emphasised in the report, for this legislation to work, we need the member states to properly implement the schengen acquis. because, after all, our citizens want to be safe but they also want to be free. we have a plan, we have the concrete rules and systems that, if implemented properly, can work and we have the necessary tools to give our citizens the freedom they need.
mr president, we are now less than a year away from the day when all citizens in the countries of the european union will be voting for the election of this european parliament. and there's one question that comes up: how does the future of the european union tie in with the future of each of us? i cannot therefore disagree with the reference made by the prime minister of luxembourg to the social dimension. how is the european union not only creating jobs, but also guaranteeing adequate working conditions? how does the european union look at young people, who for me are not only the future of the european union but the present of the european union? and here, mr president, when we talk about the future, the future must be linked to a vision, and the vision must also be based on our values, which are our soul. and so the reference, yes, to our belief in the rule of law, the freedom of the press which is also the guarantee of how we communicate freely with each other.
mr president, when we talk about the future of agriculture and its link to food, we know, and i emphasise this, the need for proper and adequate remuneration for farmers. we are therefore taking this opportunity to appeal to the government of malta to ensure that wherever possible, local produce, as we refer to in the report, and fresh produce is used. unlike the recent scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables to schoolchildren, where the government, for reasons known only to itself, chose to go the other way instead of going for the local and fresh produce. and it was also to the detriment of the very children in the schools, and to the detriment of the farmers, who had products and trucks full of products to throw away. we have to remember the needs of small countries, we have to remember small countries where agricultural land is becoming less and less and so we have to also make incentives to have more land used for agricultural purposes.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, you have invited the presidency to speak on behalf of the council on the topic of the proliferation of corruption and crime through golden visas. this is an important issue which concerns not only visas and residence permits, but also the broader issue of european citizenship. the granting of citizenship and long-stay visas by a member state falls under national competences, and as a consequence, these matters are not governed by eu law. however, the consequences deriving from decisions by one or more eu member states frequently have an impact on all the others. therefore, i would like to thank you for drawing the attention to this topic. third-country nationals who benefit from a citizenship or residence-by-investment scheme, commonly referred to… (disturbance in the chamber)… as golden visas, are usually entitled to reside, live and work in the territory of the european union member state granting the permit. at the same time, they can also benefit from the schengen area residence permit and the citizenship of the member state. fundamental privileges and rights are attached to the european union citizenship and residency permits in an eu member state. the golden visa programmes matter because they might offer the possibility of misuse or are sometimes perceived as potentially weakening the fight against corruption in the european union and its neighbouring countries. for this reason, when defining national legislation, each member state should not only take into account international and union law but also the essence of eu citizenship and its inherent value. the protection of european union citizenship is our joint responsibility, shared among all member states and institutions. the european union, the european parliament, the council and the commission have already expressed their views about these developments. in your resolution of 16 january 2014 on eu citizenship for sale, you called on member states to recognise and live up to the responsibilities they hold in safeguarding the values and objectives of the union. let me also recall that, in its conclusions on the eu citizenship report of 2017, the council addressed this issue. it invited all member states to act in accordance with the principle of sincere cooperation and respect the limits set out by the court of justice when granting or removing nationality. it is also very relevant that the commission announced its intention to produce a report on national schemes granting eu citizenship to investors. the commission is expected to describe current national law and practices as well as its action in this area and provide some guidance for member states. this report could help us to have a better overview and understanding about existing practices. it will also help the council to revert to this issue if necessary. i am looking forward to hearing from commissioner bulc on the subject. let me conclude by restating the obvious. member states are solely responsible for defining the applicable rules in this area, but because of the rights conferred by eu citizenship, we all care. eu citizenship is not and should not become a tradable commodity.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for tabling this debate today. it covers issues that go to the core of eu values, of eu citizenship, and of the duty of sincere cooperation inside our union. the commission takes seriously the need to safeguard the essence of eu citizenship. while it is for each member state to lay down the conditions for the acquisition and loss of its nationality, this must be done in full respect of union law. member states should award citizenship in a spirit of sincere cooperation with other member states. this involves fully recognising that the conferral of their nationality means conferral of eu citizenship and the rights and advantages this brings with it. eu citizenship is the entry door for the internal market. if one member state does not apply the necessary security and criminality checks, then this can affect all of us. it is for member states to ensure that the necessary steps are taken to counter security risks. they must also apply rigorous criteria to identify and then combat criminality and corruption. with these points in mind, i can assure you that the commission is closely monitoring citizenship investor schemes in the eu and their applicants. in the 2017 eu citizenship report, the commission announced that it would publish a report on national schemes granting eu citizenship to investors in 2018, and we will do so in autumn. as regards golden visas, in the absence of harmonisation at eu level, the commission has no competence on the issuing of residence permits or long-stay visas for investors. member states are competent to set the procedures and conditions of entry and stay for third-country nationals who wish to invest in the country and stay for longer than 90 days. the effects of such residence permits are largely confined in the granting member state. they do not entitle the holder to reside outside the issuing member state, and the short-term travel possibilities are limited to up to 90 days in any 180-day period, in line with schengen rules. the issue is, however, being analysed in the context of the commission’s fitness check of the legal migration legislation. the results should be made available in the second half of 2018. where allegations of fraud and criminal activities arise, it is for the national competent authorities to investigate, be they law enforcement authorities or judicial authorities. the commission has no competence to intervene directly on allegations of fraud or criminal activities, except in cases where the eu budget is affected. member states must diligently conduct those investigations, including by applying the provisions of eu law on the prevention of the use of the union financial system for the purpose of laundering money. i know that many of you are concerned about the possible link between citizenship-for-sale golden visa schemes and money laundering. these schemes indeed may be a factor that facilitates the injection of illicit money into the licit economy of the member state. thanks to the efforts of parliament, the new anti-money laundering directive includes a specific provision addressing the need for better screening of applicants to national schemes for granting long-term residence or citizenship to investors. this specific provision requires all obliged entities, including banks, members of the professions or wealth managers, to pay close attention and perform enhanced due diligence checks when they are dealing with a third-country national who applies for residence rights or citizenship in exchange for capital transfer, purchase of property or government bonds or investment in corporate entities in that member state. the commission now expects all member states to comply with the new rules as soon as possible and will monitor the implementation of the directive. integrity and the fight against corruption in member states are key priorities for the commission. as i have already set out, while the commission has no competence to intervene directly on allegations of fraud or criminal activities, we expect national authorities, be they law enforcement or judicial bodies, to tackle this vigorously. national anti-corruption policies are monitored at eu level. in the framework of the european semester, the commission is closely following the functioning of the member states’ judicial systems, their fight against money laundering and their fight against corruption. all member states are subject to an ongoing assessment of their general anti-corruption policy landscape and anti-corruption efforts. in march 2018, corruption was indeed identified in several countries. in the country-specific recommendations published on 23 may, recommendations on corruption-related issues were proposed for the following countries: the czech republic, malta, slovakia, hungary, italy and latvia.
on behalf of the ppe group. other the peoples we represent are concerned about insecurity, crime and money laundering. they reasonably expect action, protection, and peace of mind. what we're discussing today will have an impact on all of that. we are not talking about golden visas or citizenship only. we are talking about things that have much larger implications. we are discussing how people enter europe by acquiring a european passport or citizenship and they do so not because they have a genuine connection with the european union but because they issue money, because they pay. identity and citizenship cannot be reduced to a product bought off the shelf. we want people who have a genuine interest to invest, to create jobs, to increase employment in every country of the european union, to find the means to do so, but to buy citizenship without checks: that is not right. i come from a country which over the years, in addition to giving strong importance to local investment, i.e. maltese and gozitan who invested their time and money in their own country in small and medium-sized businesses or as self-employed, has also given importance to foreign investment. we have always valued the economic contribution that there has been genuinely to our economy, but that a european country is used for dubious purposes, such as money laundering and corruption, should never be accepted. and i'll close with this: in the institution and in the countries we have worked on security, border security, we have worked on anti-money laundering laws. it cannot be that what we have worked for is lost in a short time. we cannot turn a blind eye. neither we, nor the european commission, nor anyone else. citizenship requires a genuine bond, and that is what citizens expect from us.
mr president, whatever one may think, whether for or against, ‘golden’ schemes by governments to grant citizenship, residence permits or visas constitute legitimate tools of policy. under globalisation, direct investment is being sucked away from the smaller peripheral economies towards the centre of the larger economic systems. through ‘golden’ schemes, smaller economies seek to attract investment to their territory by giving a personal stake in it to agents having some control over investment flows. obviously these persons will have their reasons for joining ‘golden’ schemes – some acceptable and others not. we have hysterical claims even here by some who, whiter than snow, insist that this is an abuse of european citizenship and that it promotes criminality. the truth is that most states have practised, or now practise, some form of ‘golden’ scheme. most do it in a non-programmed way, at least on the outside: the schemes lack rules; decisions are informal and announcements are hidden, so nobody protests. do—gooders and parts of the international media attack only those countries like malta and cyprus which have open, advertised programmes. speaking for malta, the process of assessing applicants for its ‘golden’ scheme is extremely rigorous. i asked to see how it is done and i was impressed – and still am – by its rigour. yes, mistakes may be made. when detected they are corrected. whoever here knows to the contrary, let him or her submit cases, not wild accusations. argue for reasonable parameters to define golden schemes, both formal and informal, plus due diligence in implementation; argue for total transparency applicable to all schemes, formal and informal; but do not create scapegoats. if money laundering is really the problem that upsets you … (the president cut off the speaker)
in fact, there are thirteen programmes in the european union, many of which lead to citizenship in some european union countries. and i understand the concerns that have been raised in this house. who are the persons with access to the european union? has a security risk occurred in the european union? there was the one who said that there is no screening, that people who commit crimes against humanity enter, that we open the door to criminals. he also mentioned the need for clear lines. let me mention malta, because malta is very much in demand in this house. we have four levels of due diligence process. each applicant is assessed individually. the process involves the police, europol and interpol as the first check. apart from, then, carrying out investigations and other checks at other levels, including and most importantly where the money comes from. only malta has this system. malta is at the forefront of introducing measures to mitigate these risks. many other programmes are completely obscure. why should there not be such standards for such programmes? relocation has been mentioned many times, and i will mention relocation because it has been mentioned, and the comparison has been made with, who is poor and trying to seek refuge in the european union. do you know how many countries that have committed to relocating immigrants have actually lived up to that commitment and even exceeded their commitments? two countries only: malta and ireland. i understand, yes, that there should be standards, there should be due diligence and all stakeholders should see that there is proper due diligence.
mr president, many citizens in the european union, in fact, especially young people, end up buying a secondhand car. this is a market which, even at that level, is estimated to be about three times that of the new car market. and so protection is needed because here we are talking about road safety, we are also talking about the extra costs that a person who has been spared from buying that car has to make because he does not have the exact record of how many miles that car was installed for. i met with some secondhand car dealers in malta last week, even before this debate, and they told me that they like clear and firm rules in this respect. why is that? because they're the way to get more fair competition, to get more peace of mind. and so it is good to do so. this is also the way the european parliament makes a real difference to people's lives.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank all the members who have participated in this important debate for their different contributions. reorganisation of companies can always mean that jobs are relocated from one region to another. this is normal in a market economy and the commission has no competence to interfere with such company decisions, but we do care about the regional impact of such issues, and the european structural funds and state aid should never be used to support delocalisation. at the same time, we will work to continue the process of building economic, social and territorial cohesion in europe for the benefit of our companies and citizens. this is what we are doing with the work on smart specialisation and industrial policy to strengthen the economic resilience of regions, empower regions to adapt to industrial change and provide the framework so that no region and no citizen is left behind.
in writing. – it is true that free establishment and the free movement of capital and workers are key pillars of our european single market. but where is this leading? in a competitive single market, the best—endowed regions in terms of infrastructure, geographical and natural characteristics, and institutions attract companies which become european champions and thus attract new enterprises. these areas will continue to grow and new companies will be established. when discussing delocalisation of companies we focus too often on its impact on workers, their families and the region of destination. what happens to the region of departure, its social class and industrial fabric? there is an impoverishment in all sectors. in a single currency area, countries and regions have very few tools to change this trend. ultimately, other workers and enterprises will relocate from these regions and the process continues, increasing the asymmetries across the eu. new redistributive policy tools are needed, such as a european unemployment insurance. structures that have been established to ensure the competitiveness of countries are too complicated and bureaucratic and should be adapted to globalisation, without abandoning the european social model. in its industrial policy, the commission should also strengthen the way to provide technical assistance to help local and regional communities to adapt to social, economic and environmental changes.
thank you mr president, mr commissioner. since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the committee on petitions has received a large number of petitions concerning citizens' concerns about their employment contract, on a temporary basis or in precarious conditions. it is truly alarming that precarious employment is increasing across europe, with more and more workers ending up without job security, sufficient pay or social protection. working conditions, decent employment and workers' rights are not only indispensable for social justice and a proper market economy but also for cohesion policy and for smooth economic and social integration in the member states of the european union and its regions. it is important to understand that the european union needs a clear and ambitious road map against inequalities to overcome precariousness in the labour market. all workers, their contract states, must be guaranteed two basic rights: clear and decent employment contract and full access to social protection.
mr president, we are not just talking about modernising education, i think we should also reflect on the realities we are living in today. an important reality is about the way people communicate with each other. people are communicating more through images, more visual methods. and that is why i have proposed in this report to emphasise visual skills, that is to say to speak about visual literacy, because this is a concept that is being given a lot of importance, even in some other countries such as the united states of america and i believe it is important in europe as well. we are also talking about early education, here not only is there a need for free early education but for quality early education, because it is the formative stage. teachers, the need for opportunities, for adequate conditions, because without teachers you don't even have education, think about how much you have its modernization. and finally, we must help young people make that journey, also from the vocational to the professional field.
mr president, we are talking about a very interesting recreational fishing sector, and even in a small country like malta you have four associations and a federation dedicated to this sport. i have also had the opportunity in recent days to meet a number of people who practice recreational fishing and i would like to share with you what is happening to them. they are affected, for example, by the fact that they do not always have the necessary places to practice their sport, even through competitions, because the baths are often taken for purely commercial purposes. they also suffer from the problem, for example, of ghost fishing, where nets are left at sea and these then reduce the fish they can catch in a sustainable way. i think this is a sector that we should promote, also because it can link up with a commercial area such as sustainable tourism. when i saw them playing the sport, they were really working in an environmentally friendly way, in particular through the catch and release procedure.
mr president, here i respectfully address council. i for one have had enough of meaningless speeches about addressing the immigration issue during council summits – but then you do nothing. frustration is understandable, and i place the blame on those member states who want to do nothing about the immigration issue. no member state – except two, malta and ireland – fulfilled their allocation of quotas from italy and greece. with all due respect, where are the others? what solidarity do you believe in? i commend spain’s decision to step in in the mv aquarius situation, but that ended only this particular situation. because boat crossings from libya will not stop, particularly in the summer, and they will most likely increase. so let’s see how interested the member states are in actually addressing this issue and not continuing to put it on the back burner, because so far they have not been prioritising this at all, and instead they preferred to pass the buck from one to the other.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, over the past few days we have watched with great concern the developments in the central mediterranean sea and yesterday i heard your concerns on the situation. from a humanitarian point of view, it is extremely disconcerting to see the same scene repeated again and again in which hundreds of persons risk their lives in flimsy rubber boats setting out from the libyan shores. for many years italy has received all migrants, regardless of where they were rescued, whether on the high seas or in the search-and-rescue zone of any neighbouring state. we should recognise the significant contribution by italy, but italy was not left alone. the eu has assisted italy in terms of setting up the frontex joint operation triton, now operation themis, as well as operation sophia and a long list of measures to address the flow of migrants coming through north africa. i refer here notably to the malta declaration of 3 february 2017, the implementation of which is ongoing and which was supplemented by the commission action plan of 4 july last year. italy has been very active in implementation on the ground, whilst member state have contributed with funding for projects under the eu trust fund for africa and by seconding experts to the eu agencies engaged in the maritime operational ‘hotspots’ and other migration-related activities in italy. our intensive efforts are reflected in the number of arrivals, which has decreased significantly. by 8 june this year the number of arrivals in italy had gone down by 77% compared to the same period last year. however, the number of fatalities has not decreased to the same extent. this fact is a stark reminder of the desperation of migrants and the lack of opportunities they face in their countries of origin. our strategy aims to address the root causes of migration by providing economic and social opportunities in the countries of transit and origin. i believe this is the right strategy. apart from existing instruments to that effect – namely the european union trust fund, the partnership framework, the valletta action plan and eu member states’ development assistance – more facilities have been developed such as the recently launched european fund for sustainable development, which supports investment in africa and in neighbourhood countries. the implementation of the european investment bank economic resilience initiative is also very welcome. in the short to medium term, we should continue and intensify all the measures we have already undertaken in libya and neighbouring countries. i can name some here but there is a whole range of initiatives: equipment and capacity building to enhance border management; the establishment of platforms to combat human smuggling networks; and support for international organisations to improve the horrific conditions in detention centres in libya and promote voluntary return. we should also keep sustained pressure on the libyan authorities and partners in the african union to take a stance against the criminal activities that thrive in libya and in the region, human smuggling and human trafficking of which migrants are so often victims. our cooperation with the un and the african union has been very fruitful. voluntary return of migrants from libya was accelerated because of political engagement by african leaders and efficient groundwork by un organisations. we need more of this kind of engagement from the region itself. the european union cannot and should not do this alone. the fate of migrants in the mediterranean sea, even though we are fully engaged at our level, is not solely an eu responsibility. coming back to the actual situation in the mediterranean sea, i believe that the different positions expressed by some member states will need to be addressed in the council. we need to find a solution that matches our common european values. we in the council, in collaboration with all our partners, in particular italy and the commission, are pursuing this objective with vigilance.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say that i agree with you. i also want to thank you and the political groups in this parliament for their support. the work of this parliament is important in order to complete the dublin reform in a fair and efficient way for all member states. the commission and parliament are working together as always. other mr president, the events of the last few days concerning the aquarius boat remind us of the gravity of the migratory challenge in the central mediterranean and of its humanitarian implications. we cannot turn our eyes away from what is happening, even after three years of progress in managing flows. we cannot afford to become complacent. what matters most is that people in a desperate situation were saved and helped. that is what counts ultimately and always. i want to be clear on that. i will not enter into any blame game today. everybody needs to take up their responsibilities and play their role in solidarity. in the case of the aquarius boat, i welcome that a solution was found and i commend the decision of the government of spain. i would also like to commend italy and many other member states that are upholding our values and taking up their share of european responsibility for many years now. just remember where we were three years ago and where we are today. we should not lose sight of the efforts these member states have made in the past and continue to make. indeed, while the aquarius will disembark in spain, more than 900 people were embarked this morning in catania, italy. so italy is continuing to take up its responsibilities. our central objective is and i think we all agree on this to avoid people fleeing from poverty, persecution or violence in the first place, putting their lives at risk by embarking on perilous journeys. it puts people's lives at risk. it creates tensions within our societies, as shown by the strong reactions on social media. to this end, our action is much more effective if it starts before they embark on these journeys on the other side of the mediterranean. on this we have already achieved results, and we have to continue strengthening our cooperation with countries of origin and transit in order to address root causes of migration and avoid people falling into the hands of smugglers' networks. let me give you a few examples. thanks to our good cooperation with the international organisation for migration (iom) and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), we have helped more than 25 000 migrants to leave libya and voluntarily return to their countries of origin, and we have supported the evacuation of 1 474 migrants in need of international protection from libya to other countries, including niger, in view of their resettlement as refugees. resettlement should be the normal way to europe for those who need protection. finally, we continue to train the staff of the libyan coast guard in order to enhance its capacity to carry out search and rescue operations at sea, which has so far resulted in 16 000 migrants rescued. we are strengthening our monitoring after training in order to ensure full respect of human rights. we also financially support egypt, morocco and tunisia so that they can better control their borders and fight smugglers' networks. protecting the external borders is essential on both sides of the mediterranean. protecting our european external borders is and will remain among our top priorities. we have made significant progress since the establishment of the european border and coast guard, but we need to continue. we proposed yesterday to almost triple funding for migration and border management to eur 34.9 billion for the period between 2021 and 2027, compared to eur 13 billion in the previous period. this comprehensive approach delivers results. the peak of arrivals over the past few days should not overshadow the progress that we have achieved in significantly reducing the migratory pressures in italy. this year, arrivals to italy have dropped by 78% compared with last year. so far, 13,000 have arrived this year, compared with 90,000 last year. but when migrants engage in dangerous, perilous journeys in the mediterranean, our humanitarian imperative to help people in distress should come first. to truly prevent situations such as what happened with the aquarius, we cannot be satisfied with ad hoc solidarity. we need a comprehensive approach and rules to ensure that the responsibility of assisting migrants does not fall on the shoulders of just a few member states. the commission has used and will continue to facilitate an open and frank dialogue and it will continue to find durable solutions based on solidarity and responsibility. migration is definitely not a challenge for one or a handful of member states, but for the european union as a whole and all its member states. our migration policy can only succeed if we work together in a spirit of solidarity and sincere cooperation and, most importantly, with trust. it will not succeed if each country proceeds with unilateral and uncoordinated initiatives or feels authorized to only look at its own national situation and interests. we are therefore looking forward to continuing to work closely with italy and the new italian government so that we can continue to manage migration flows on the central mediterranean route. but as i said before, this is not just an italian issue we expect all the member states to join forces in sharing the solidarity and responsibility and addressing this truly common challenge. this is the essence of all our efforts, whether it is saving lives in the mediterranean or better protecting our shared external borders or coming to an agreement on any formal common european asylum system as part of the comprehensive approach on managing migration better. only united will we stand. it is very important for us to understand that it is part of the legacy of this parliament and of this commission for the years to come because migration will be with us for many, many decades ahead. we have to be better prepared, more united and resolved to provide solutions, always having as a priority how to save lives and protect those who are in genuine need of protection. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is difficult not to be angry when we find ourselves in another summer, facing a situation that we warned would come. it is difficult not to be angry when we know that we can introduce laws on plastics and on litter, we can end roaming, we can even reform agriculture, but when it comes to migration, prime ministers remain stuck. our message to the council must be clear: leave no space for more raised fists and banging on tables, no more victorious hashtags, no more children born on the high seas, no more lives used to prop up the wannabe strongmen of europe. things must change. now, in the immediate term, we must reform our dublin system to one that balances responsibility with solidarity. we need to ensure that our borders are secure and our coast guards have all the resources they need. we must break – as has just been said – traffickers’ models. we must draw distinctions between those in need of protection and those seeking work. those who need protection must be given it, but equally, those who do not must be returned quickly. on migration and borders, the budget has been tripled. this is welcome, but in the medium term, we need to think outside the box and look seriously into having eu-run disembarkation locations in safe third countries, with eu standards, where anyone saved from the dark sea can be disembarked immediately, rescued, vetted, processed in full recognition of their rights – by easo, for example – and either returned or resettled. we have the money to do it and we must find the will to do it. in the longer term, we must move from aid for africa to investment which creates jobs and creates hope and allows for education and entrepreneurship to flourish. let’s create a union where italy, malta, spain and greece do not feel left alone to manage this; a system where desperate people in need of protection have a real chance, where children grow up to a future without fear. that is the europe i want to see and that is the world i want my children to find.
the tragedy we have in the mediterranean is, mr president, leaving the countries of the european union more and more divided as time goes on. unfortunately, even great allies, as they were, and should remain, malta and italy. i am sorry to hear some members from italy, a country i love very much, say things that instead of encouraging us to fight our battle in the european union, are instead encouraging us to fight against those who are not making their contribution to solving this problem once and for all. it is not right, you are right, that some countries in the european union have done absolutely nothing to help italy, in particular, of course, malta, which has been facing this problem for many years. we have several solutions, i say to the council members, we have the dublin regulation which we have to see how it is amended. it is not possible to leave the regulations as they are today. we need all member states to share this responsibility. we need to have application centres in safe countries in africa before they decide to be allowed to leave to come to europe. but let us fight this battle together because if we do not we will have the disasters we have unfortunately had in the past.
mr president, i just heard the council saying that they are concerned to see the same scene over and over again of flimsy dinghies with people on board. so, with all due respect, ms panayotova, what are you waiting for? because it is up to the governments in the council to come together and act on this issue collectively, not letting certain members get away scot free – as they can do, as if nothing had happened. and i would like to refer to something else that was mentioned in this chamber. some mentioned malta, as though malta was doing nothing. malta has always respected and adhered to its obligations. malta’s resources are fully dedicated to saving lives at sea and malta has the second highest number of refugees per capita, second only to sweden. with all due respect, by pointing fingers at one member state or another we are not going to solve this issue because we are in this together, and only if we act as one can we truly make a difference and solve the problem. so let this parliament come together and stand up – stand up to the council – because we have the solution for a centralised system and if the council doesn’t want to hear that, then something needs to be done asap.
in writing. – unless we make a clear distinction between genuine asylum seekers and economic emigrants, european citizens will not understand our purpose on migration issues. unless we have functioning policies and rules that deal fairly, strictly and effectively with such issues, on a european basis, populists and extremists will win the political challenge. asylum seekers should be given all the protection they need. economic migrants, unless they are needed by european economies, must be sent back. for this we need a strong and effective frontier control system that reaches out to neighbouring territories, inclusive of a security capability. but europe should also have a functioning common policy to allow open and legal economic migration, matching migrants to needs identified and declared by member states. it also should strengthen and widen its development aid outreach to sub-saharan africa, while streamlining the investment and operating activities of its own corporations in that zone – so as to promote job creation there. we have been declaring these objectives for a long while. there has been a lack of agreement and limp implementation. whether via ‘dublin’ or otherwise, the time has come for like-minded member states to jointly consolidate and put into full effect these agreed policy directions.
in writing. – the priorities set by the austrian government for its eu presidency under the slogan ‘a europe that protects’ are security, the fight against illegal migration, enhancing competitiveness through digitalisation and promoting stability in the european neighbourhood. moreover, the main challenge for the presidency will be to bridge the differences among member states while preserving a european political coherence. on too many policy areas, divergences are deepening in the eu: surely, between the north and south of the european union on economic matters; this has been sharpened by the euro area’s operational rules. but also, rifts between the west and the east have become clear, driven by the migration crisis, a growing economic disparity and different governance philosophies. austria’s approach will be based on enhancing the principle of subsidiarity. i agree that by involving more national and local authorities, the divergences could be better tackled. however, in doing so, the european union institutions should not be shorn of their powers and responsibilities as defined ... neither more nor less... by the treaties. by putting as a priority social and economic cohesion, the austrian presidency could help to lay the basis for an effective consolidation of eu decision-making ahead of the european elections next year.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my thanks to all of you for your contribution to this very important debate, but let me tell you that the next time, if we have a similar debate, it would be good to see, seated next to president tusk, 27 leaders having an open discussion directly with you. i am sure they would come out from this room wiser and more responsible. we all talked about the glass. the glass is half full, yes, but the bottle is there, full of european ideas, initiatives and solutions. instead of looking at the glass, look at the bottle and its contents. finally, a bottle is there to be shared. this is definitely a question of political will. only if the will is there can we reach solutions. we need european vision to revive it, and realism. yes, i agree with all of you that we need leadership – strong leadership – to reach future—proof answers. we cannot operate in crisis mode on migration anymore. many of your interventions indeed reflect the fears, the concerns, questions and convictions of our citizens too. here is what i see as the essence of the european council last week. european leaders confirmed their commitment to a comprehensive approach to migration and for me the most difficult task was mr tusk’s; to bring together 27 leaders. it remains to be supported now with concrete proposals and actions. they reaffirmed that no country should be managing this alone, and that we can only move forward with the joint and european approach both inside and outside europe, and naturally at our external borders. this is precisely the approach which has been adopted by the commission since the very beginning, and it is this approach, and no other, that has already produced results. and of course, thanks to your support, to the support of the european parliament. indeed, we have managed to significantly reduce irregular arrivals into the european union. we are not where we were three years ago, definitely. based on these positive results, we now need to further address the structural changes where they really are. we cannot forget the big picture and we can never lose our humanity. over the past few days, many shipwrecks have occurred close to the libyan coast and hundreds of people have lost their lives. i understand that you are outraged by these events. i am outraged too and that motivates me to keep going and not deviate from our values and principles. we can never turn a blind eye to the situation on the other side of the mediterranean. the outcome of the european council builds on what we have achieved so far, and gives us the operational and practical guidance to continue. we are already working on their implementation because the tragic events in the mediterranean show once again that there is no time to lose. we do not start from scratch and we do not leave anyone alone. the eu—turkey statement has been key to fighting smuggling in the eastern mediterranean and reducing the irregular arrivals to europe. we remain committed to upholding it, also by delivering the second tranche of the eur 3 billion for the protection of refugees hosted by turkey. more than 600 000 lives have been saved so far, thanks also to the support of the european border and coast guard agency. more than 1 300 have been evacuated from libya to niger. more than 15 000 have been returned voluntarily from niger or libya to their country of origin. the libyan coast guard are rescuing an increasing number of migrants. thousands of migrants in libya are receiving access to medical help and other services thanks to international organization for migration (iom) and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), which, as you know, we support financially. on top of this, another eur 500 million will be transferred to the eu trust fund for africa to ensure that our many actions to address the root causes of illegal immigration will continue. we count on member states also to pitch in with significant financial contributions. it is clear that we have to further engage with countries in africa. to further strengthen our external borders, we will soon present a proposal to beef up the european border and coast guard agency even more and transform it into a genuine eu border police, but an effective and firm migration policy is not and cannot be just about borders. as the president said, reform of the common european asylum system is equally essential. it is necessary, not only to ensure solidarity among member states, but also to effectively reduce secondary movements within the european union. we are so close that i frankly see no defensible reason for delays. the five pieces of legislation on asylum qualifications and reception conditions, on eurodac, on resettlement and on our asylum agency should be adopted before the end of this month, and then i plead once again with member states to move towards finding an agreement on dublin and asylum procedures before the end of the year. it will be one of the most important legacies that we, all the european union institutions and the european parliament, can leave behind. the facts and reality tell us we are no longer in a migration crisis. the crisis we are confronted with is purely political. i call on everyone not to protract this political crisis any longer and to get down to business. i am looking forward to working closely with you, as i have always been doing during the last three and a half years and, of course, with the upcoming austrian presidency to swiftly make progress on all these aspects. the informal justice and home affairs council that will take place next week in innsbruck will be the first opportunity. allow me to say some words in greek, responding to mr hadjigeorgiou. κύριε χατζηγεωργίου, συμμερίζομαι την ανησυχία σας. πιστέψτε με, είναι και δική μας. η πρόκληση της μετανάστευσης στην ουσία δοκιμάζει την ίδια τη συνοχή μας και η απάντησή μας σε αυτή θα καθορίσει το κοινό μας μέλλον. πολλοί πίστευαν ότι θα ήταν η οικονομική κρίση, η οποία θα έθετε σε αμφισβήτηση το μέλλον της ευρώπης. τελικά, είναι η διαχείριση της μεταναστευτικής κρίσης γιατί απευθείας και στην καρδιά αγγίζει τις αρχές και τις αξίες πάνω στις οποίες έχει χτιστεί το ευρωπαϊκό οικοδόμημα. εμείς, η ευρωπαϊκή επιτροπή, από την αρχή έχουμε αναλάβει τις ευθύνες που μας αναλογούν και έχουμε καταθέσει μια ολοκληρωμένη πρόταση για την ευρωπαϊκή μεταναστευτική πολιτική. θυμηθείτε πού ήμασταν πριν από τρία χρόνια και πού είμαστε τώρα. ας συνεχίσουμε πάνω στις ίδιες γραμμές. και οφείλω να τονίσω, για μία ακόμα φορά, ότι το ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο έχει στηρίξει αυτή την πολιτική και εργάζεται προς την κατεύθυνση της ολοκλήρωσής της. οι κοινές αυτές προσπάθειες, όμως, δεν επαρκούν. δεν εναπόκειται πλέον τόσο στα κράτη μέλη. εγώ συνήθως αναφέρομαι στις κυβερνήσεις των κρατών μελών, θυμίζοντας ότι οι κυβερνήσεις έρχονται και απέρχονται, ενώ τα κράτη θα είναι εκεί. και πρέπει πάντα να θυμούνται οι σημερινές κυβερνήσεις ότι ήταν ιστορική η απόφαση των προηγούμενων ηγεσιών να περάσουν το κατώφλι της ευρωπαϊκής οικογένειας. εναπόκειται, λοιπόν, στις κυβερνήσεις των κρατών μελών να αναλάβουν τις δικές τους ευθύνες· να ξεκαθαρίσουν πώς αντιλαμβάνονται τον ρόλο τους και τη θέση τους μέσα στην ευρωπαϊκή οικογένεια. η κοινή μας ευθύνη είναι μεγάλη και θα έλεγα ότι κάτω από τη σημερινή συγκυρία είναι και ιστορική. και από την απάντησή μας στην πρόκληση της μετανάστευσης θα κριθούμε από τις μελλοντικές γενεές, γιατί αυτή θα καθορίσει τελικά την συνοχή και την ενότητά μας. the migration challenge is putting in question our principles and values, as i said before. it is, however, only by upholding them that we can move ahead stronger and united. we will all be judged by the way we respond to it. these values are the way for responsible and effective decisions to move ahead. we need leadership and vision, but also frank and brave discussions amongst us. this commission and this parliament are showing the way by agreeing on a comprehensive migration policy. i expect that the governments of the member states will also take their responsibilities.
president of the european council. – mr president, allow me to make just one comment on migration. i am absolutely sure that the people of europe expect us to show determination in our actions to rebuild a sense of security and order. people want this not because they have become xenophobic and want to live in a sort of european splendid isolation with walls against the rest of the world; they want to have a political authority able to enforce the law to protect our territory and our borders. in fact, this is the first and the most important obligation of every government. many in europe and around the world claim that the european union – or, more broadly, our traditional democracies – are unable to efficiently protect the external border. this is a favourite argument of some new political movements, not only in europe, offering simple radical and attractive answers to the most complicated questions. they want to convince people that only strong men, anti-european, and with a tendency towards authoritarianism, are capable of stopping illegal migration, and we have to prove that they are wrong. we have to fulfil our political obligation. jeśli chodzi o polskie pytanie, ewentualne dwustronne porozumienia między niemcami a innymi państwami europejskimi nie były w ogóle przedmiotem obrad rady europejskiej.
in writing. – yet again, ‘solidarity’ remains a term, most likely to speak about but not practice. i am proud that malta, the smallest eu country, showed leadership in the lifeline case and brought together europe’s most compassionate members to show solidarity. it is unacceptable, however, that not all eu members want to share responsibility. moreover, it is ironic that the eu expects ‘rapid and secure’ processing of applications from only a handful of member states operating on a voluntary basis. when the eu as a whole does not provide an adequate framework for member states and bona fide ngos to operate in, it simply means that responsibilities are being ignored. this is not the time for member states to fight one another but for them to come together, be bold and establish clear rules of engagement.
prime minister of poland. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! thank you very much for your votes here, thank you very much for this repeated reminder of solidarity and that solidarity was so crucial to the overthrow of communism. i was a solidarity activist, and i can say that as a young boy i had very different experiences. for example, i don't know if you know that the military judges - the judges in the 1980s - sentenced my comrades in arms to ten years in prison. the woman, my underground colleague eva kubasiewicz, and many others were sentenced to long prison terms. some of my colleagues were murdered, many of them spent a very long time in prison. do you know that these judges of the time of martial law, some of them, those who issued shameful sentences during the time of martial law, are today in this, the time you defend, the supreme court? did you know that, mr. bullmann? did you know that? there are several martial law judges who are still there today, so the commemoration of solidarity must also include a reflection that this post-communism has not been overcome in our country and we are fighting this post-communism precisely through judicial reform. several people have also mentioned the european defence fund and its complementarity with nato. i would like to thank mr verhofstadt, who has just developed this theme. i fully agree with this, and it is very important for the future of europe. i was very pleased to be here with a representative of a group which is theoretically quite far from us politically, in this extremely important dimension of security, the complementarity of our activities in pesco, in the edf (european defence fund), with respect to nato, to talk about coherence, about complementarity. we have a very similar view. i would like to refer to the thought that mr verhofstadt also conveyed. i think that we are not well received in poland and in central europe. well, the three seas initiative is not about competing with the european union. it is also a complementary initiative, because many of our partners, our friends from western europe, find it difficult to understand our polish, central european reality, because you were very lucky not to have lived under communism for 50 years. you were lucky to be on the right side of the iron curtain. unfortunately, life was very different in our country, and the transformation after 1989 assumed that the communists had entered the new system with a dry foot. so we, looking at the different political dimensions, we try to throw off the yoke of post-communism. the three seas is part of the european union's support in the sense that we want to develop the north-south corridor. today, europe is much more built around the east-west corridor, but this potential - in scandinavia, germany, poland, austria, hungary, bulgaria, the czech republic, slovakia, romania and southwards to greece - is much less exploited due to the lack of gas, energy, rail and road infrastructure. this is the main point of the three seas initiative. i think it complements what mr verhofstadt said. at the same time, you also referred to the retirement age. do you know that here, a few hundred meters from here, the european court of human rights in 1998 introduced exactly the same early retirement rule for judges that we are introducing now? then that rule was fully accepted. today we are doing exactly what many other countries do not do anything else. you also mentioned here in a few voices about the russian danger. thank you for these votes, because however we want to cooperate with russia, it is not with an aggressive russia not with a russia that conquers more countries, that attacks more countries, that destabilises european countries all of europe, because we have seen this in recent statements from various countries, including western europe, so in pointing out these threats, nord stream ii, we are not only invoking eastern european or central european solidarity, but we are warning about the threats that may also exist in western europe. we think this is extremely important. mr verhofstadt said that "judges are under political control". judges are much more independent today than they were before, and i'll show you that. well, when is a judge more independent? when can the presiding judge order a judge to do something? when can he choose a judge for a case? when can he move it between rooms? no, then there's an indirect pressure mechanism. that was the situation before. do you know that in the old days, one of the key district court judges was ready for a call from the prime minister? it was a journalistic provocation to call the prime minister to choose a corporate judge in a case, and it was a case of the biggest fraud in the amber gold financial pyramid. do you know that this judge was prepared to do that? today that's impossible. we have strengthened the independence of the judiciary, we have strengthened objectivity. not only that, vice president timmermans has given us that. president timmermans admits that the ban on the transfer of judges between chambers, which we introduced on 1 january this year, also increases the independence of judges, increases the objectivity of judgments, increases the fairness of those judgments. ladies and gentlemen, before you start talking, look a little deeper - i beg you very much - what is the truth, what is the reality of the rule of law, because judges are more independent today, and the division of power. and thank you very much for this reminder of the constitution of 3 may the first constitution on the european continent. it's a really big issue, and the rights of women that we've been talking about here are also very much respected. poland was one of the first countries to introduce democratic rights for women in europe. you also mentioned the media. are there not free media outlets, the vast majority of which - 80 to 90 percent - present a critical or very critical view of the situation with regard to the authorities and the reality of today? does this mean that the media is in any way threatened with its freedom? ladies and gentlemen, the media in poland is overwhelmingly critical of the government, and we absolutely agree with that. we understand that this is the situation, although it is very much biased in the other direction. if you looked at it closely, under a magnifying glass, you'd see it. does the opposition have any restrictions on media access? do journalists have any restrictions on their subject matter? nothing like this is happening, and before we came to power, we were dealing with an unprecedented raid by special services on newspaper offices, including the requisitioning of newspaper materials. did you know about this? did this house say anything when the previous government was doing this? i have the impression that the house is biased in this respect because you may not like one authority, one government, and you may like another. why didn't you look at what the polish authorities were doing? this is the reality: one of the leading newspapers, famous for its objectivity, but critical of the authorities of the time, was taken from the editorial team and awarded, through indirect action, to one of the oligarchs. so poland was going in the direction of oligarchization in this respect, my dear country. the media was actually almost 100 percent owned by one political option. is that what freedom of the press should be about? today, the only limits to a judge's work are professionalism and conscience, but that certainly wasn't the case before. our changes have led to the recovery of 10 billion euros from the mafia. you should appreciate that this is also money from the european union budget. poland is a proud country. don't lecture us on such matters. we know how to run our institutions, and because we changed the way we approach our tax institutions, we have the best economic situation in 30 years -- the lowest deficit, the lowest public debt, the lowest unemployment, one of the highest gdp growth rates, a great economic success -- and all this with a huge amount of support for our social programs, a huge amount of solidarity support from these social groups. as for ending poverty, we should all be proud of that. do you know that our government has eliminated extreme child and youth poverty by almost 100 percent? poverty eliminated by 95 percent. no one was interested in that before. we've earmarked the money we took from the mob for social purposes. it also supports our economy, and it's something that if you look at it, you on this side of the political spectrum -- socialists, green people and so on -- you would very much support. i encourage you to look at what our economic model looks like. ladies and gentlemen! democracy in poland has never been as alive as it is today. civil rights are being implemented without hindrance, and the media is more diverse and pluralistic than it has been in the past. we can say that with certainty, and if you look closely, you will see that it is so. we are a proud nation and we know best what freedom costs. here you have it, and i thank you for it. we fought for our freedom and yours, we were the first to put a dam on german barbarism during the second world war and thus saved the continent from even greater genocide. we also do not forget our neighbours to the east. we are against closure, we have talked less about it here, but we are very much in favour of the process of integration of the balkans with the european union, in order to complete the integration of the whole continent. and that's the power of diversity. we are fully committed to the european heritage. our contribution to security is not just high defence spending, it's the eastern partnership. i'm asking that we understand each other's point of view better, so we can respect each other. think about how it is that a huge part of the media, 80 to 90 percent, is against us. a huge part of business, big corporations, western and indigenous, is against us, a huge part of the european parliament is probably against us, and yet we have this kind of support all the time in this country that far exceeds any support for any other party. perhaps there is something deeper in our policy, solidarity on the one hand, and on the other hand, the honest, seeking to recover those taxes, which (the word is unheard) in the days of our predecessors, also because of the poor justice system? did you know that in the days of our predecessors, two judges - a judge of the supreme court and a judge of the high administrative court - agreed on a verdict? you didn't say anything about it being unacceptable. now to the commission valdis is a friend of mine with whom i have spoken many times on a great many economic, macroeconomic issues, we agree monetary union, banking union, the financial crisis are topics we have discussed many times and in many areas we speak virtually the same language. and it's also worth highlighting what the european commission says is positive about us: this very positive kind of economic growth, high quality of economic growth with a declining deficit and increased tax efficiency. i am very grateful to president dombrovskis for saying that we have done a lot for dialogue. i don't know if the state has caught on, because we have really been committed to dialogue and we have done a lot for dialogue. but i have to ask myself out loud whether the commission is the honest broker, as you say, or whether it is the honest intermediary, because i expected that in a situation of such polarization as poland was - as it is in poland - it would be true that the commission would be the honest broker. but i doubt that it is, because despite the enormous efforts on our part to meet the challenge, to implement, for example, the measures that were strongly suggested by the commission with regard to the ordinary courts, and a certain promise that the application to the european court of justice would be withdrawn, this has not happened. and did you know that in our country, the national council of the judiciary is elected by a three-fifths majority? show me a better democratic mandate where the national council of the judiciary is elected by such a majority. and from the very beginning, our government and i as prime minister have tried to have a dialogue with the commission. today i have to say that we have reached a point where, after making some changes, we want to reform the judiciary so that it is a better judiciary for poland, but also for the whole european union, because weakness is best defined by the many shortcomings, imperfections, which i conveyed in our dialogue to presidents timmermans and juncker - they know very well what we have to say here on this matter. ladies and gentlemen! the transatlantic relationship was also discussed. they are very crucial, and i would like to say a few words about them, and also, finally, about migrants. in the context of transatlantic relations, it is very important to curb the anti-americanism that is alive in europe and to keep this alliance between europe and the united states going, because i cannot imagine a more real guarantor of security - not only in eastern europe vis-à-vis russia, but also in the middle east - than nato, and we strongly support the transatlantic alliance. but this may surprise some of you - i am also very much in favour of strengthening europe - the european union - as an independent defense force. to do that, we would have to spend three, maybe four percent of gdp on defense. meanwhile, poland is one of the few nato countries that meets this target spends 2 percent. it was also under our rule that we changed the methodology of calculation. it had not served that purpose before. it is also money taken from tax evaders and vat mafia, which we have earmarked for the defence of europe. but as long as there is no such spending on defense policy, this alliance with the united states is very important and it is not just an anti-american attitude. this is also the anti-european stance of all those who want to undermine the transatlantic alliance. it's an attitude that is welcomed, as someone here said, by tsar putin, only by russia. let's not go that way! ladies and gentlemen! thank you also for raising the subject of migration. we recognize that we need to do our best to help migrants, refugees in their countries of origin. i don't know if you know that poland contributes four times more than our share of the eu's gdp to funds like the european resilience initiative and the european fund for africa. but i will say more: we are ready to double this support for countries abroad if there is a similar contribution from other member states, because it is important to protect the external borders, but also to support externally, also to support through external hotspots. after all, this is the idea we discussed at the last european council. we support external hotspots as part of our response to the refugee issue, because we believe that's the right thing to do. but when it comes to migration, when it comes to accepting refugees, you also have to consider that we are undermining some countries in africa and the middle east, because they are often the ones that are leaving, the most talented, the most enterprising people. by absorbing them into europe, we also weaken the ability of those countries to reform their economies, and we don't want that. poland is doing its best to support the development of these countries on the ground. ladies and gentlemen! so to sum up this part of our discussion, thank you very much for the votes that have been cast here. mr verhofstadt in particular raised a number of issues that really concern the future of europe, because we want to play a very positive part in the future of europe in the most appropriate way - in the field of defence, innovation and also migration. but it is not good if proud nations are taught by others, because then there is really polarization and the wedge, there is a contraction. we therefore call on the one hand for this dialogue to be continued. i would ask you to compare this with the systems of the member states on the basis of which our reforms were introduced, because what we have done is nothing but to introduce solutions which actually exist in western europe. i would like to emphasise very strongly that poland is today an economic success thanks to the new socio-economic model we have adopted, thanks to the consolidation of the tax system, and at the same time thanks to the opening up of new channels of cooperation, also in the field of innovation, trade, export-import, which is what europe is strong for, and that is what we want to offer europe, to be a constructive member state. i think that despite the appearances, despite the various tensions that are today, in these coming times, when it happens - all the time, because we see the earth shaking in the context of elections in individual countries - we want to help stabilize the situation, we do not want to rock this european boat, because i strongly believe that europe has a future, it has great value, we just have to respect our national distinctiveness, our national experiences and our national successes.
mr president, we cannot have a debate about the future of europe without reaffirming our founding principles, and we need to reiterate that if the rule of law is under threat anywhere, then it is under threat everywhere. either we are a union where the rule of law reigns or we are no union at all. because whatever the eu looks like in the future, and whatever the scenario, you cannot be a fit and proper eu member and undermine the judiciary at the same time. reform by all means but, prime minister, what is happening in poland is not about reform; it is about control, it is about consolidating power by weakening the institutions designed to keep you in check. that is the way of the past. to so many in poland and across europe, including my own country, malta, the eu represents the fundamental belief, the unshakable certainty, that however different we are as nations and peoples, however much we argue about policy, we share the same core value system. so the commission is right – absolutely right to take action. it is doing its job as it must everywhere there is a threat. the future of europe and the future of poland must be one and the same based on the rule of law. prime minister, it is not too late. come back from the brink. come back to the heart of europe, where poland belongs. (applause)
member of the european commission. madam chairman, i will speak in my own language because this is an emotional point and the emotion in me speaks my native language. in my opening remarks, i described the legislative framework and the clear condemnation of racist and xenophobic statements and attacks both in the real world and online, especially dangerous attacks when they come from people who have influence over public opinion and the situation in society. and i deliberately spoke in general, i didn't use the word italy or salvini at all, because i didn't want to contribute to the italian national debate. i wanted to talk about the fact that yes, in europe we are concerned about values and we need to speak ever louder to appeal to everyone that racism and xenophobia must not be tolerated. i confess that when i first heard the statement about the roma census, that is, the census of people on the basis of race, it shook me personally and i started to find out how these things happened, what can be expected next, how the next development will take place. of course, i also have to take into account and respond to the many messages and emails i receive from people who are very concerned in italy, and it's not just roma who can be affected by such statements. i've been investigating the situation, i've had a debate with a contact person who deals with roma integration strategies in italy, i've had a debate with a number of experts and so far i have reflection from practice that it was a declaration that does not start to be implemented, which is not such a strong reason for some kind of complete calm, but we see that so far it has remained only words. and i mean just in quotes, because words are just as dangerous and can be just as dangerous as actions. we want good cooperation with the italian government, it's a government that came from free elections. i think that good cooperation and dialogue and progress on roma integration can help the roma themselves. that it won't help them if we get into conflicts, unnecessary controversies. i'm not a fan of barking on twitter and sending out some messages and short messages. we want a good debate with the italian government, we want the situation of the roma to improve, we want the principle of equality before the law and the prohibition of discrimination to be fully respected. this is what we want in all countries where we have roma citizens. 90% of roma live in 11 countries of the european union, and i work very closely with all of these countries. each country has different problems, different warning signs in the integration of rome, and we need to apply a very individual approach. we had a good debate with minister di maio at the epsco council on improving conditions for women, on better reconciling private and working life. i had a good feeling about the debate, so i repeat, we want dialogue with the italian government to improve the situation of the roma. i have to say that i'm very involved, very passionate about addressing the issue of violence online, in the online space. we have a so-called code of decency, a code of conduct, with the big internet companies. i have a very good overview of who is on the list of those who are objects and victims of attacks at that time. i must say that in some countries, the roma are gradually replacing the first group of refugees who were there until recently. these are all very warning signs. we're dealing with that, and as i said, we're working with those countries individually. anyway, the fact that hateful content is removed from the internet within 24 hours where it's notified, where it's detected, i think that's a big step forward. and i will always fight against critical remarks made about me or about the commission or about anyone who enforces this code of decency, this code of conduct, because that criticism says that we are actually imposing censorship and that we are standing against the right to free speech. i will never defend the free speech of people who send roma and jews to the gas, people who have absolutely disgusting comments when looking at photos of a czech girl who was the victim of a firebomb attack. i will never protect people like that and their right to free speech. and it's not about me, it's about the criminal law in each individual country. in every european country, incitement to violence and racial hatred is a criminal offence. and we want law enforcement to work with it companies to identify these offenders and to effectively prosecute them and to punish the offenders. and not what we saw recently, that the perpetrator of such an attack on roma was fined 5 euros. i think that's totally unacceptable. it must not be cheap to attack people, whether they are roma or other citizens of the european union. i have to say that the police and the law enforcement agencies are facing a new situation because they are telling us: "a few years ago we were dealing with extremist organized groups". now, online violence is actually done by individuals, and according to some surveys, we find that it's not people without education, it's people with education, it's often people with college education, and it's very alarming, actually, the wave of violence that's now gaining ground in the online space. we are updating the roma integration strategy, and i have to say that we will continue to promote an integrated approach and better use of european funds. i heard it in here, too. the integrated approach must consist of clearly effective ways of improving living, working, education and health conditions. and as i said, based on the pillar: equality before the law and non-discrimination. ladies and gentlemen, i'll conclude by returning to the power of words. i recently studied documents related to the wannsee conference, which was a continuation of the nuremberg laws, which was also a census of people by race. i don't like historical parallels, but i have to say that this is a reminder that we had this in europe, that we are playing with fire if we let these things run our lives. wherever it is in europe, we must not let ourselves be reduced to a relativism of fundamental values, to a tolerance of hatred. i think it's an appeal to all of us. please stop this in time.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i followed this emotional debate attentively. to be honest, at first i was a bit surprised, but in the end, i am very thankful for this debate because it is obviously necessary to remind member states of their duty to remain sensitive, to reflect history, to be careful with words and to implement both the framework established in 2011 and effective measures to ensure equality. whichever government a member state of the european union is ruled by, it is indispensable to guarantee equal rights, equal chances and the right to education to all citizens, irrespective of their origin, and to do everything to preclude any form of discrimination. this is not only the duty of the member states of the european union, but also of the member states of the council of europe. the council of europe’s european court of human rights is only a few metres away from here. regarding ms gomes’s comment, i know that there are many states with a very long tradition of protecting minorities and that is also the case in austria. i myself am in regular contact with different minority groups and we do everything we can to protect them. but let me end on a positive note by once again stressing the fruitful cooperation between the three institutions in defending the rights of europe’s roma. parliament has worked particularly hard to keep this topic on the agenda. i also commend the council’s contribution and commitment. as mentioned, we have already called on the commission to propose a post—2020 strategy on roma integration. keenly aware of the harmful effects of anti-gypsyism, the council has also called on all member states ‘to implement and enforce legal safeguards against discrimination, racism, xenophobia, hate crime and hate speech’. fundamental rights and decent life chances belong to roma and non-roma alike. let us show that this is so. let us stay the course, stamp out discrimination and make social justice a reality.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to tell you that, personally, i am very happy that we have reached this point after a lot of work together. we are now debating, and tomorrow you will vote to adopt, the european travel information and authorisation system (etias), a milestone in our common work. together with you and the council, we jointly agreed to work together to prioritise the legislative work of initiatives where european citizens are clearly expecting us to deliver concrete results. for this, i would like to express my thanks to our rapporteur, ms gál, the shadow rapporteurs, and all those involved, for their hard work on this file. migration and security are at the very top of our citizens’ concerns, as we see in survey after survey. one of the challenges we identified was to close our information gap on visa-free travellers, while in parallel facilitating legitimate travel. etias was therefore an immediate priority. today we deliver on this priority. let me recall and highlight a few aspects about etias and its concrete benefits. first, it will strengthen internal security and the quality of schengen border management. today, border guards have limited time and information when making their assessment on entry. they have no prior information on visa-exempt travellers, especially at land borders. with etias they will benefit from an additional and broader security and migration risk assessment than at the border crossing point, and before the traveller arrives at the schengen borders. with this system in place we should also see a decrease in the number of refusals of entry at the borders. in addition to the system contributing to the reduction of migratory risks, persons that pose a security risk will be identified and denied travel authorisation before they arrive. anyone who is denied authorisation will not waste time and money travelling to schengen border crossing points. this will also reduce the cost of return for carriers, which will have to repatriate fewer passengers from air, sea and land borders. second, while enhancing border management and internal security, etias will at the same time also facilitate travel for visa-exempt third country nationals. applying for a travel application will be quick, simple and cheap and will not require more than a travel document, credit card and access to the internet. the vast majority of applicants will receive a positive reply within minutes. if additional information or documentation were to be needed, or even the need to have an interview, different possibilities will be offered, taking into account the situation of the traveller. third, and this is a crucial point, the system will also help to safeguard our visa liberalisation policy, something which is, of course, a key component of the european union’s external policy. several visa liberalisation dialogues are progressing with eu neighbours. visa liberalisation is also an important tool to promote reforms in partner countries and contribute to overall stability and good cooperation with third countries. etias is, of course, not a visa, but it will compensate in a relatively light way for the loss of information on travellers who were previously visa-required and hence present in the visa information system (vis). with our visa information system, the proposal we made last may will ensure also that etias and the vis work smoothly together and there is no information gap leading to migratory or security risks, all in full respect of fundamental rights. please let me now touch upon some of the data protection aspects of the agreement – what data is collected, its retention and how it is protected. the robustness of the risk assessments to be performed by the system is, of course, related to the data collected and to the checks performed against other systems. the outcome on this point is very balanced. it will allow etias to achieve its objectives and functions efficiently while at the same time minimising the data collected. the system will not require the collection of additional information other than what is strictly necessary. i appreciate parliament’s contribution to striking a constructive agreement with the council on this point. as regards now data retention, the agreement is fully in line with the european parliament’s proposal on extending the retention period only if the applicant freely and explicitly consents. in terms of data protection, the proposal was built to be fully compatible with our new data protection framework. as you know, the extensive discussions reflect a delineation between the general data protection regulation and the police directive without affecting their scope of application. data is protected against risk of abuse. access is restricted to specific persons within designated competent authorities. transfer of data to third parties is prohibited, except for exceptional cases where the entry/exit system would not already contain necessary data. travellers have the right to access, rectification and deletion of their personal data stored in etias. supervision is provided by the european data protection supervisor and independent national supervisory authorities. the system will be built in accordance with the principles of data protection by design and by default. moreover, the fundamental rights guidance board will, at the suggestion of you, the european parliament, reinforce and advise the etias screening board by appraising and issuing opinions on the impact on fundamental rights and of implementing etias screening rules. today, we are ready to pursue our joint commitment to the full and continue to deliver results for the benefit of our citizens. we should rapidly start to develop etias so that it is up and running in 2021. i am looking forward to the debate today, and thank you for your continued commitment to truly european initiatives which enhance our external border management, ensuring more safety for our citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. other the past years have shown how important and even more urgent it is that security, enforcement and legislation measures are one step ahead of criminals and terrorists, and law enforcement must have at their disposal all the resources to be able to fight crime and terrorist attacks. the latter, by their actions, threaten the very foundations of europe. they threaten what europe stands for. it is necessary to protect our european citizens, and what we are discussing today, the european travel information and authorization system, is an essential step in this direction. more than ever we need to know who is entering europe and who is crossing borders. we all know the risks that terrorists bring to communities and countries of the european union. we want to make sure that they have nowhere to go if possible. the intelligence that is collected will cope with all of this. we compared etias to the us esta, some would say better, because we created a system whereby an analysis could be made automatically to see if a third country person who does not need a visa but wants to enter europe poses a problem or threat to the security of european citizens before the person has arrived at the borders. this means that we know who will cross to europe before they reach our borders. the management of this system is done online and on mobile. this is done quickly, in a short time, cheaply and above all efficiently. this is one of the most important european laws when it comes to security, and i am proud that the epp group has been a catalyst in this, and i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her patience, as well as commissioner avramopoulos who both shared their knowledge of the subject with us. what is happening means a change in the rules for how we approach security in europe. we have essential tools that we have created among which this is the most important. i want to continue, and i close here, update the laws to ensure that we always stay ahead of the criminals and the people who.. . of . of (the president cut off the speaker from the chair)
article 29 of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities insists that every person with a disability shall be granted the right to participate in any election by voting or standing as a candidate. i therefore call on this house to really embrace all that the convention says by having more accessible european elections. we therefore need to have material that everyone can understand and debates that reflect the needs of people with disabilities. there is also a need for more accessible polling stations for all types of physical disability. citizens have the right to feel independent and participate on an equal footing. in addition, we must have elections that lead to greater political participation of people with disabilities, because with their help we can create laws that are inclusive. we need to listen and we need to understand them to know the difficulties they face and thus to adopt laws that truly reflect an inclusive society. only then can we have a parliament that represents everyone and respects the capacities and rights of every european citizen. only then can we have a more accessible europe, a more inclusive europe.
mr president, we are here today to show that politics must be about principle and values. that means taking tough but necessary decisions. of course we can choose to close our eyes, but too much of europe’s history is marked by terrible decisions taken in the name of expediency. we know that appeasement never works, we know that our values are worth more than just the paper they are written on, and we know that from some things, we cannot look away. europe is a hope, it is a promise, it is an ideal, and i see europe as the pillar of light sandwiched between trumpian clouds and putinesque shadows. our european way – of freedom, compassion, fierce personal liberty, passionate equality, the rule of law, free thought, free movement and a free press, and the protection of minorities is a global symbol of enduring courage. we should be proud of that. the litmus test of a european nation is how well these values are nurtured and protected. if, despite everything, despite all the calls to change direction, despite all the extended hands of friendship, our values remain under serious threat, as they are in hungary, then we must act. we must choose the politics of hope over the politics of fear and cheap populism. we must protect the european way, always. and so, in the name of all those who sat in this chamber before us, in the name of all those who believed and believe still, tomorrow i shall stand up for europe. (applause)
madam president, the interests of libya and of its people and those of the european union are convergent if not identical. the country needs to go back as soon as possible to a strong and stable governance that will maintain national coherence to the libyan borders while taking into account the expectations of the different forces present – this by bringing as many of them as possible to participate in running the country. the coming elections should be a crucial step in approaching this state of affairs, which is why it is important to ensure not necessarily that elections are held as soon as possible but that they are run transparently, with the widest possible agreement with libya as to their relevance. as recent events in tripoli confirm, there are still huge security problems that have to be overcome. unless this has been done, the elections will be undermined. first things first: the interests of the libyan people before other interests. the european union should, without pre-judgment therefore, maintain dialogue with all non-terrorist organisations in libya and support elections that will, realistically and as fairly as possible, provide the platform for the establishment of a governance that could bring back to libya stability, peace and prosperity.
in writing. – the commission must be big on the big things, and act only where it can achieve better results than member states acting alone”. so said president juncker at the beginning of his commission’s term in 2014. while agreeing with this approach, i believe that as of today, it has not happened. if there were attempts in that direction, they were insufficient to correct the weaknesses of the union. on big things like addressing the migration crisis, social cohesion, economic and social imbalances, the union was not decisive in the last 5 years. most targets set in the europe-2020-strategy remain only on paper. we were told that “more europe” is the solution. this has increased citizens’ expectations. one year before the european elections, citizens still find themselves distant from what happens in brussels. in a world where globalisation is valued, perhaps, only for economic purposes, citizens are not finding their request for better representation in the european institutions, but in national political fora. which is why populism in many eu countries has progressed so much. it will not be countered by establishing new layers of institutions or policies. what we should work for is a genuine, shared political consolidation of a few key priorities.
mr president, i am pleased to have voted in favour of the report we had from mr voss because i believe that the vote we had today is a most important vote in favour of artists and in favour of the media. when i wanted to consult on this topic in the past few days with artists, singers, people in the publishing field, authors, publishers, journalists in countries, in malta, they wrote to me about how they are treated badly by the platforms, how they do not receive fair remuneration for the work that is then put online by the big internet giants. and so what we did today should be the beginning of doing justice to all these people because it's the way we get even more content. freedom of expression is mentioned a lot here, mr president. it is relevant to me that you have the eighteen european news agencies, which in this copyright publication said europes independent press needs article 11. because today you have a journalistic work that is used up and no payment is given to those who even risk their lives to produce it. so we took a step in favour of freedom of expression and not against it and i thank everyone who gave me important feedback on this subject.
madam president, the questions of sustainability and adequacy that face basic pension systems need first to be faced and solved on a national basis before they can realistically be dealt with on a european basis. in my view such solutions cannot be grounded only on increasing the work span in citizensʼ lives and on a rise in contributions, nor should they be reduced to a further privatisation of parts of the pension system. the latter should be regarded as an integral part of the public commitment within the state budget, with the highest priority being given to the most vulnerable. indeed, this is part of the wider european heritage on the social front, shared by the right and the left, from bismarck to willy brandt. it should not be abandoned. balance in state budgets should fully include, on the expenditure side, the underwriting of shortfalls between outgoings and income over basic pension payments and revenues. this would necessarily entail a radical revision of national budgetary strategies by way of spending priorities, implying a greater emphasis on investment and on modernisation of social welfare delivery, plus a re-engineering of taxation.
thank you, mr president, i greet the vice-president of the commission, but in particular mr mark demesmaeker, who, in my opinion, has done a very good job in this report because it is a fact that, i would say all over the world, but also in particular in the european union, we generate a lot of plastic, too much i would say. but, at the same time, not all plastic is bad because we have plastic which is a versatile material, which has more than one function, for example to keep food fresh or even in the use of medicine or insulation. but even so, we have to make sure that we don't have plastic ending up in our oceans. i come from the mediterranean and i know how much of a problem this can be. plastic waste in mediterranean countries is indeed among the biggest concerns of european citizens and the topic we are discussing today helps citizens make the best choice to reduce waste and reduce its impact. now if we really want to solve the problem, we have to reduce the amount of plastic we generate. and this is our opportunity to really invest in a new economy and develop new markets. and that is why we want to develop further innovation, and to make products from materials that can be used more than once. i believe this is the beginning of a circular and more sustainable economy. we also need to invest, however, in more public awareness because we need public campaigns and we also want to promote the design and production of plastics that are in line with multiple-use and recycling needs. only in this way can we have a circular economy that reduces plastic pollution and the negative impact on the environment and on people's health.
on behalf of the s&d group, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, karin kadenbach, for her report, which is of the utmost importance to us because since the introduction of penicillin in 1940, i am speaking, we have always believed that antibiotics can cure many fatal infections and can make surgical interventions much safer. but with the development of antimicrobial resistance, common infections suddenly became fatal again. and if we do not act immediately, we risk going back to a time before we had antibiotics. for example, a lung infection may become fatal again. the risks in routine operations can increase significantly. treatments such as chemotherapy can become too dangerous for patients and we are therefore calling on the commission, and also on the member states, to take action immediately. because we need more strong measures, we need more surveillance and we need more monitoring. we need better medical diagnosis that shows at an early stage whether the cause of infection is one of bacteria or a virus. we need to know whether antibiotics should even be used and we need to focus on prevention. now, when i talk about antimicrobial resistance we also talk about the use of antibiotics in animals, which is shocking. two thirds of the antibiotics developed in the global market of each year are used for animals. and when animals consume antibiotics, between 30 and 90 percent end up contaminating the environment, the soil and even the drinking water. moreover, they end up in their milk and in the meat that citizens consume. we therefore need to protect our citizens and so we need to address this problem and take action as quickly as possible in all member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, free movement in the single market is one of the biggest achievements of the eu. it provides opportunities for millions of eu citizens and businesses: to travel, study, work, shop and live in other member states. unfortunately, many still encounter difficulties when moving, working or studying in another member state because facing 28 different national systems can be very frustrating and daunting both for citizens and for businesses looking to expand to new markets. therefore, as the rapporteur on this legislation, i needed to understand where the challenges lie in order to address the issues in the interests of our citizens. the paradox we discovered during our work was that the problem was not always a lack of legislation, information or existing procedures. on the contrary, in many cases it was the existence of legislation which complicated matters. it was therefore important to address issues such as lengthy or unclear administrative procedures, complex and confusing information – which is all over the place – and difficulties in getting access to various public services. to make matters worse, when information is available only in a single language, it is not necessarily understood by the majority of the users. so voting in favour of the new rules tomorrow will help parliament to reach an important milestone in significantly improving the lives of citizens and businesses, and will showcase the tangible benefits that the european union can bring to its citizens. the new rules will establish a user-friendly, interactive european single digital gateway which, based on people’s needs, will guide them to the most appropriate services and will provide access to all the necessary information and administrative procedures needed to move freely in the european union. in simple words, we will create a european search engine which will connect all public services in member states and will assist with information and procedures that currently are often scattered, incomplete and certainly not transparent. the gateway will provide information on matters such as travelling, working and retiring, residing and having access to education and healthcare, family residence, and citizens and consumer rights in the eu. furthermore, it is not only information that is important, but also the quality of information, and that is why we are introducing quality standards in member states to ensure high-quality, accurate and up-to-date information, which will also be accessible to end-users with disabilities. the gateway will also provide full, online, fair, non-discriminatory access to a list of 21 key administrative procedures such as requesting birth certificates, applying for study grants, requesting social security benefits, enrolling at universities, requesting diplomas, declaring income tax, and so on and so forth. another important milestone achieved with this legislation is the ‘once only’ principle, which for the first time ever will be introduced at european level. this means that citizens will no longer have to submit the same documents over and over again, but instead will submit them only once, and they can then be reused, while fully respecting the protection of personal data. and what is very important is that, whatever information people need, they will be able to obtain it in more than a single language. this effectively means no more wasting precious time and money; no more red tape and complex procedures; no more papers and hours of waiting in long queues in public places. therefore, i urge all of you to support this regulation – a new important step towards providing a responsive, inclusive, borderless, user-friendly, digital public service to citizens and businesses at national and european level. last, but not least, i would like to express my gratitude to the shadow rapporteurs, to the commission and to the bulgarian presidency for their open and collaborative work on this report. we worked under extreme pressure and to a strict timetable but, when there is a will, a way will always be found to improve lives and to deliver tangible benefits to our citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you very much for your interventions, for your positive remarks and, of course, especially and primarily for your work on this proposal. with this proposal, we have a real opportunity to make the single market work a little bit better, both for our citizens and for our companies. both of those groups should be able to enjoy the opportunities that the single market offers them. also thanks to this new instrument, small businesses – let me underline this – will save costs, more easily innovate and more easily expand across europe. let me also mention one important thing: with your help we can bring to reality another important promise of the digital single market strategy – that we want to ensure that public administrations modernise and respond better to the needs of the users. i, therefore, hope that you will endorse the regulation tomorrow. i hope and expect that in two years we will be able to launch the gateway with the proud name of ‘your europe’. thank you very much for your help and for your work.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this debate, and particularly my shadows. thanks is due also to my political advisers, my assistants, the commission and the bulgarian presidency. i am proud of the cooperation between all european institutions to make this important legislation a reality, but in truth i am proud mostly of the results we have achieved where in many instances we have achieved far more than we thought we would. our ambitious stand really paid off. in the troubled and challenging times in which we live, with so many different crises facing the european union on different fronts, i believe that it is our duty to communicate to our citizens the positive elements that the eu brings us. as we have seen in today’s debate, the regulation is a perfect example of how the eu can work and how it can change our lives for the better. the single digital gateway will tangibly help citizens and businesses. it will pool together national and european information procedures and problem-solving services into a single entry point of the your europe portal, through which citizens can easily find and access what they need. the gateway will be user—friendly and multi-lingual, and will help start-ups and smes looking to start operating in other member states. such a service is of paramount importance when starting a business, accessing finances, taxation rules, accessing pensions rights and social benefits, as well as other information which citizens may require for their cross-border activities. so it is on days like this that we should be particularly satisfied with our work as meps, seeing how our work will positively and tangibly impact european citizens: something that we really need to communicate. so thank you everyone, and i look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you, commissioner cañete, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the way we work together. i am proud to be standing here to defend the committee on the environment’s position on legislation that respects our climate targets, the environment, public health, industry and competitiveness. i am proud because together we realised that the way forward is to ensure the environmental integrity of the industry as a whole. we agreed that real driving emissions are a necessity, and that any emission values that the european commission bases itself on have to be measured values and not simply values declared by the car manufacturers. we agreed that we have to move from measuring emissions at the tail pipe to analysing the whole life cycle of a vehicle. that, together with the well—to—wheels approach, can really promote cleaner technology and cleaner fuels. we agreed that investment in recharging infrastructure is to be promoted, and battery and battery cell manufacturing close to vehicle manufacturing sites should be supported. i am for more ambition than what the european commission is proposing. i am for more ambition, because we have studies that clearly show that we need to take decisive action. more ambition will stimulate innovation and investment in the european union. it will create jobs in the years to come, particularly if the european union embarks on a long-term strategy that seriously attracts battery production investments to the european union. this is confirmed by the european commission itself. i did not want to speak about numbers, but i want to set the record straight. let’s take a 40% co2 reduction: we would be creating 69 000 jobs in the eu if we imported batteries from outside the european union. if we had to produce batteries within the eu, we would be creating 92 000 jobs. with a 40% co2 reduction, there would be 12 000 fewer jobs in the automotive sector over a period of 12 years until 2030. however, at the same time, in its blueprint for cooperation on skills and the automotive sector, the commission is saying that there will be 900 000 employees, who will retire or leave the sector between 2017 and 2025. because workers are a priority, we are proposing a gradual transition complemented by targeted programmes to ensure that no one is impacted negatively. an ambitious proposal is all about car manufacturers having the right incentive to invest and create quality jobs right here in the european union. i ask two questions: why are car manufacturers investing seven times as much outside the european union as they do within the european union when it comes to cleaner cars? why are car manufacturers, telling their workers’ councils that they cannot invest in battery production in the eu because of high salary costs, but then chinese companies open battery production sites in the eu paying eu salaries. as far as i’m concerned, the answer is simple: there aren’t the right incentives for the industry to invest in cleaner cars. and we have a choice: we have a choice between attracting investment to the european union or letting other continents take the lead, with all the disruptive effects that this will have on our industry, on our companies and our small producers, our environment and our cities. this is the time to act. this is the time to show that, for us, it is not a question of industry versus the environment, but an issue of making sure that we address both the environment and industry together. we have the opportunity to act tomorrow in our vote in this plenary.
rapporteur. – mr president, there is one statement by a member from the epp that will remain imprinted in my mind tonight, saying that we need to take the venom out of the dalli report. seriously, is this the level of the debate about such important legislation? what i heard tonight is not necessarily always based on fact. to the meps who think that by going low on ambition they are doing the industry a favour, i ask you to look at what is going on around you. see what is happening in japan, see what is happening in china, see what our cities are doing, and see what our governments are doing. case in point: the danish government is saying that it will ban gasoline and diesel cars by 2030. this is what is happening at this point in time, and not all epp members necessarily agree with this or are happy with this, but to come here tonight and say that having ambition going to 40% will be devastating really shows how much some people are out of touch. i will refer colleagues to what the chief of a major trade union in germany said: that 40% is achievable. he said that infrastructure needs to move forward, and that is something we agree upon and that we also addressed in the environment position. we also heard about the push towards one technology over the other. it is not true. if we are speaking about a 40% co2 reduction, let’s be factual with people. we are talking about a 10% battery electric vehicle market share by 2030. it does not mean that we are going towards battery electric vehicles overnight. it means that there will be a large share of efficient internal combustion engines and a large share of plug-in hybrids, which are labour—intensive and which require more employees across the european union. so yes, i urge colleagues to be united, at least on a 20% co2 reduction by 2025 and a 40% co2 reduction by 2030.
mr president, the attacks on anti—corruption and judicial bodies in romania are worrying. the scenes of protesters being beaten are deeply disturbing. these are ordinary people on the receiving end of the baton. these were not terrorists, they were not provocateurs, they weren’t even there illegally. these are the mothers, fathers, sons and daughters of romania, europeans whose only crime is to demand an end to corruption and abuse. that is all they want. they stood up for the romania they were promised and for the rights guaranteed by the eu treaties. this should not be too much to ask. after all, modern europe is built on the shoulders of the people who shaped history by speaking out with their lungs bursting with tear gas. on 10 august, romanians took to the streets, shouting ‘justiţie nu corupţie’ – ‘justice not corruption’. if ever there were three words which articulate what the eu must stand for, those are they: ‘justice, not corruption’.
the rapporteur. thank you chair, allow me, first of all to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their attitude in being here today, and thank you to this house for understanding that this is a law where we really need to be ambitious. in this connection, i would therefore like to request a mandate to enable us, on the basis of the fourth subparagraph of article 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, to open interinstitutional negotiations. thank you.
member of the commission. – madam president, today’s debate has proven how important it is to ensure that the social dimension is well integrated in all eu policy areas and why the european pillar of social rights is so relevant. the principles enshrined in the pillar underline the importance to invest in people and to support them through changes stemming from new and emerging challenges. as president juncker said, europe’s social dimension should be given the cinderella treatment no more but should instead be geared towards the future. poverty and inequality are not only detrimental to social cohesion, but also to sustainable economic growth. this is why we believe that fit—for—purpose social protection systems can contribute both to the smooth functioning of the labour market and to inclusive growth. this includes, indeed, that minimum income provision has to be accompanied by activation measures and enabling services. an adequate income will always be important for maintaining human dignity and full participation in society and economy. it is important, however, to note that minimum income provisions are only one element in the whole policy mix that is needed to guarantee a decent life for the most vulnerable people in society. now on italy. italy was one of the few countries not to have a minimum income provision for a long time. we recommended its introduction in country—specific recommendations for many years, and finally the previous government introduced it in 2017. we understand that the current government would like to modify the measure, including by extending its coverage. we will judge it, within the framework of the european semester and the analysis of the draft budgetary plan, according to the well—established procedures you all know. last but not least, madam president, about the requests for new legislation, for instance on a minimum income directive or the other suggestions made during the debate, i can tell you that right now our focus is on the important legislative initiatives already proposed to implement the social pillar. our goal is to see this completed within this mandate of the current parliament. in parallel, there are important initiatives underway to ensuring upwards convergence in these areas, and here i am referring in particular to the recently agreed framework for minimum income benchmarking which includes indicators for defining adequacy of benefits. this will for sure be of great help to developing adequate minimum income schemes in all our member states. thank you very much for this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i want to thank you for the vibrant but incoherent discussion we are having now. we have to combat poverty, we have to leave no one behind, but i think next time it would be helpful to clarify in advance what we are talking about. in my opening speech i was talking about minimum income as a social system to bridge difficult times. nevertheless, thank you once again for inviting me here and allowing me to could contribute to this fruitful and lively discussion. i think though that next time we should decide on whether we are talking about minimum income or minimum wages.
in writing. – private consumption has grown. exports and investment have increased. unemployment continues to fall and it has gotten closer to pre—crisis levels. profits of corporations have increased. public deficit and debt levels have been largely brought under control. not so the share of the economic cake being enjoyed by the working and middle classes; there the deficit has continued to grow. in most cases where a national minimum wage exists in europe, it still falls short of what a living wage should be. meanwhile, the divergences between the highest income earners and the lowest have continued to increase. this is not fair. at best, minimum income schemes play the role of safety nets for the most vulnerable workers and for individuals unable to guarantee an adequate standard of living through their own efforts. they are hardly doing so. the time has come, however, for such schemes to go beyond this minimum. we need to push for the adoption eu—wide of a national minimum wage adapted to the conditions of each member state. and we need to propose that where this national minimum wage exists, all over the eu, in the current favourable economic context, the minimum wage levels are increased across the board by at least 5 per cent.
thank you, mr president, this report presents a strategy that member states should introduce to ensure a public procurement system that is in line with technological development. i therefore believe that the report, as it is drafted, and on which a vote will be taken, should enter into force. in this way we will ensure a public procurement strategy that is much more accessible to the citizen, to government entities and private entities, while also increasing transparency. this report is important because it will create an eprocurement system that will facilitate the application of their transparency, as well as create a platform that will allow public companies to comply with european union standards more correctly. the main focus of this report is the unanimous implementation of the union's member states. i would like to say that malta has already implemented european public procurement laws, ahead of many other member states. i therefore call on the member states to support such systems being proposed in the interests of citizens and in the interest of transparency.
in fact, i was recently struck by a comment i heard, which suggests that because we want to reduce pollution we are cut off from reality. to me, it is a travesty of reality to think that we can continue to be so filthy as we have been. because if we don't change our course, our world is headed for a temperature increase of three degrees celsius. so today, on the eve of another climate change conference, we must take the warnings that have been made seriously. and we europeans have an important role to play because our future is at stake; of someone living by the sea on an island. sea level rise, for me, is not an alternative i can consider. that our water plan ends in salt, for me and the people i represent, is not a remote exaggeration. it is a possibility! a great possibility that means my life and my people's lives will be affected. and it's not too late to take a chance and say i have a fifty-fifty chance of doing well. we need to do much more if we are to really make sure that industry and citizens' lives go hand in hand.
imagine the reaction if you heard that every minute in the same place a garbage truck full of plastic is dumping waste into our seas. but that is actually what is happening right now. this is the moment that environmental awareness among our citizens about how we can better dispose of plastic waste is there. no country alone can make a difference, but together, with common policies among us, we can really start to reduce single-use plastics and the alternatives that exist. let me now focus on the mediterranean sea after a recent report identified the mediterranean as the sea with a record level of microplastic pollution that is threatening marine species and even human health. today, plastic represents ninety-five percent of the waste that is on the surface of the mediterranean and our beaches. in europe we produce a huge amount of plastic waste, much of which ends up in landfills and millions of tonnes of this plastic end up in the mediterranean itself. we cannot allow the mediterranean to continue to be swamped with plastic. we must act now to really save our seas, wherever they are. this law, which we will be voting on this week, is the first step, but i want to see an international legal agreement that leads to no more plastic being dumped in our seas. we need to have strong targets for all plastic to eventually be recycled.
mr president, if there is one thing that has been so violently exposed in the last year in europe it is the need for a concrete mechanism that will monitor the state of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in every member state. it is clear that we need to close the gaps between the rights we demand as eu citizens and the tools that are currently available for their protection. having such a mechanism would be a huge step forward and would go some way in allaying the fears of so many citizens in europe from different states who look to us when their rights are in danger, or when their institutions cannot be relied on or when the promise that is europe is under threat. this is not about going after any single state or government. it is about making the protection of the rights we have future—proof. our focus must be on protection, about building up systems, about helping people and not about punishment. having this mechanism will mean that every member state will be subjected to the same level of scrutiny. it will remove the politics from that equation and create equality among states. it will mean that governments who think that they have carte blanche to do as they please after winning an election will be in for a surprise. it will give europe the tools to act. we are not interested in going after one country. we want to change the entire system, and this could very well be the game changer that we need to address this generational challenge facing our union.
in writing. – assessing whether democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are being breached systemically depends on analysis of the available facts, duly proven. it also frequently depends on subjective points of views adopted for political and other reasons that filter into the assessments being made. unless this is recognized, there can be no worthwhile approach to spotlighting and correcting breaches. mutual trust among member states and their legal systems underpins what the eu stands for. yet the ideological consensus that used to prevail among member states seems to be breaking down. the risk has increased that allegations of breaches of our fundamental values get instrumentalised from within polities for partisan reasons. they are then promoted at european levels to foment criticism directed at the government of the day. i have seen this happening for my country malta. and in this house. i cannot rule out that it might be happening for other member states. we cannot allow procedures by which allegations of breaches in fundamental values are investigated to be politicised and made suspect. the urgency therefore is to construct a mechanism that can be accepted by all as objective, fair, transparent and deliberate in correcting any such breaches.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to be here with you tonight for the final debate on our three proposals for a reinforced schengen information system. i would like to thank wholeheartedly the rapporteurs, mr coelho and mr lenaers; the shadow rapporteurs, their teams and all those involved on this file for enabling us to have this debate tonight. this agreement was the result of intense work and i would like to congratulate them for it. at the core, the schengen information system is about one thing: trust. the trust to share sensitive information with eu partners. the trust to follow up on alerts shared by eu partners. the trust to rely on the schengen information system when the security of our citizens is at stake. the sis today contains over 80 million alerts on wanted and missing persons and objects. just last year it was accessed 5.2 billion times. since 2013, when we first had sis in its current form, it has led to 50 000 arrests and the tracking of 200 000 serious criminals. these numbers are clear testament to its value for our member states. it is no exaggeration to say that it is the centrepiece of our security cooperation in europe and our most important instrument for information exchange in the european union. it was against this background that we proposed – in december 2016, as you will remember – to further strengthen the system. but the question is: why change a system that performed so well? because with the dramatic improvements in information-sharing during the past three years, a stronger sis can open a new chapter in our cooperation on internal security and can contribute to the coherent application of the rules and principles governing the schengen area. the new rules will help with the effective enforcement of entry bans for third-country nationals at the external borders by making the entry of their data into the sis compulsory. with the introduction of a new alert category for return decisions, the sis will also provide an efficient tool for the implementation of eu policies on return. member states will now be obliged to enter alerts where a person or an object is sought for a terrorist offence. the role of europol will be strengthened, as it will now have access to all alerts and supplementary information exchanges, while member states will be obliged to inform europol of any alerts related to terrorist offences. the operational teams of the european border and coast guard agency will also have their own access to sis in order to carry out checks at the hotspots. the new sis will make better use of biometric data, with the possibilities of using palm prints, facial images and dna profiles in specific cases, when safeguards are met. this will build on the automated fingerprint identification system we introduced to sis earlier this year, which has already led to a 25% increase in the number of alerts containing fingerprints. in parallel, the reinforcement of sis will strengthen the protection of personal data by aligning the sis provisions with the new data protection framework. there will also be important improvements for the work of law enforcement authorities and strong links to our work on interoperability, which julian will tell you more about in a minute. interoperability, like our security initiatives on electronic evidence, explosives and terrorist content online, is vital for the security of our citizens, and it is essential that they advance rapidly to adoption before the may elections. what i would like to leave you with is that, with this debate tonight and tomorrow’s vote, europe’s most widely-used secure database will become even stronger. a strengthened sis will provide police and border guards with the information they need to do their jobs and help keep europeans safe. it is the most concrete example of all our work to change the culture on how we cooperate on security in the european union: a europe that protects; a genuine and effective security union to ensure the security of our citizens. with this in mind, i encourage you to support this important initiative when you vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, the schengen information system (sis) is the centrepiece of our network of information exchange and the main law enforcement database that we have. but its real strength lies in the fact that it is used. it is used every day. it has been integrated into the everyday work of over two million police officers and border guards across europe, whose job it is to try and keep us safe. it is an undoubted success. in addition to some of the figures that we’ve already heard, between 2013 and 2017 the sis also contributed to over 28 000 missing persons being found; to the tracing of more than 180 000 persons needed to assist with a criminal judicial procedure; and to almost 200 000 cases concerning stolen objects – vehicles, identity, travel documents and firearms – being solved, all using the sis. i would like to join the speakers who have already thanked mr coelho, mr lenaers and all those who worked on reaching agreement on these proposals for improving the system. the improvements that we’ve agreed – that you’ve agreed – will make a real, positive contribution to the fight against terrorism and serious and organised crime. as we have heard, they will make the exchange of information more efficient. the new obligation to enter an alert in relation to a terrorist offence will be applicable immediately. together with the provisions on information sharing in the directive on countering terrorism, this is an important step towards information sharing by default, which many of you in this house have argued for. new alert categories, like the new inquiry check, will provide key investigative tools for law enforcement authorities. the proposed changes will also allow the sis alerts to be used for unknown persons wanted in connection with a crime on the basis of fingerprints or palm prints discovered at the scene of the crime – for instance, when fingerprints are found on a weapon that has been used – all subject to certain safeguards. the new sis will strengthen support for the prevention and investigation of theft and counterfeiting by providing for alerts to be issued on a wider range of stolen and falsified goods and documents. in parallel to these measures, we’ve also been working with the member states to make the system more user friendly for frontline officers, and we have thus seen the number of checks made against the sis increase by 40% in 2016, compared with the year before, and by a further 30% year-on-year in 2017. dimitris avramopoulos has already mentioned the automated fingerprint identification system (afis). to date, 12 member states are using afis to identify people at the external borders or on their territory. this has already led to a number of hits on people who would not have been identified otherwise, such as, to give one example, the man who claimed asylum on arrival at schiphol without identity documents. after a fingerprint check on afis, it was found that there was a warrant out for his arrest in germany. that’s the kind of practical result that these new systems, incorporating biometrics, can deliver. we are now working with the other member states to ensure that they too implement biometrics. under the new proposals, the use of afis will be mandatory for all member states by the end of 2020, which in itself will mark an important milestone in the fight against multiple or fraudulent identities. but, as dimitris avramopoulos underlined, there’s still more to do on this. so, finally, let me briefly link the strengthening of the sis with our wider work towards the interoperability of eu information systems for security, border and migration management. the reinforced sis sits at the core of our proposals on interoperability, i.e. our work to ensure that national authorities have the information they need, when and where they need it, with all the safeguards offered by our fundamental rights framework. by closing down the gaps that terrorists and criminals can exploit, we can cut down on identity fraud and strengthen our external border security and our internal security. i very much welcomed the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee adopting its negotiating mandate on interoperability last week, and i look forward to the start of trilogues soon on this important subject. thank you for your support.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs, mr coelho and mr lenaers, with whom we worked closely and had a good working relationship. i can say that the schengen information system that we negotiated together is a valuable tool which can help build resilience against terrorist threats and can help keep our citizens secure and safe. the effectiveness and efficiency of the system can always be further strengthened, but i believe that what we have achieved is a good balance to ensure the safety of our citizens across the european union. as the s&d group we have welcomed the revision of sis. however, we wanted to strike the right balance between gathering data and the fundamental rights of our citizens. this is a system primarily designed for the purpose of police and border control, and with this in mind, it is crucial to establish a system that will not jeopardise the right to privacy, the right to the protection of personal data, and procedural rights in criminal cases. on behalf of my group, i have pushed for proper safeguards for the biometric data stored in the system. our focus was to establish uniform rules for securely addressing and processing schengen information system data. we have given special attention to the safety of all civilians and included preventive alerts for vulnerable third-country nationals and victims of human trafficking, but also for missing children or children at high risk of parental abduction. for me, it was pivotal not only to address the fight against human trafficking and child abduction but also to ensure that their fundamental rights with regard to their personal data are protected. information exchange in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and in the field of border checks is essential, particularly since the great majority of individuals involved in perpetrating terrorist attacks in europe within the last decade have been eu citizens. many were foreign fighters; most were already known to the european authorities. let me emphasise a final point about sis ii. sis ii is based on the principle of mutual trust and requires schengen states to enforce each other’s sis alerts. it means that states have a duty to check an alert’s lawfulness and proportionality, particularly if its enforcement would violate the fundamental rights of the person involved. based on this principle, the relevant authorities should check first whether any action would violate the person’s fundamental rights, because the improvement of the system should never come at the expense of the protection of the individual’s fundamental rights. we have the tools to guarantee the safety of our citizens; now we need to make sure that member states implement properly this regulation. thanks a lot, and once again thank you to the rapporteurs.
mr president, as a member of the convention on a european constitution, held 16 years ago, i well understand how the lisbon treaty was shaped to carry over the main conclusions of that failed constitution. yet it had been intended to transform the eu from a top—down construct to one that directly related and responded to the concerns of european citizens. the lisbon treaty aimed to strengthen the bottom—up dimension of the union and make citizens feel it was really theirs, so the functions and powers of the european parliament were increased. today, the members of this parliament, mindful of their increased powers, try to make them stronger. members of this parliament diligently work on new proposals and laws intended to promote the welfare of all citizens. still, eu institutions, this parliament included, are even now seen by citizens as top—down arrangements. many in this parliament fear, as we have just heard, that in the next european elections abstentions will be numerous and so—called populist extremist parties will achieve a record success. we need a radical evaluation of how this state of affairs has developed – one that does not rely on the repetition of exhausted pro—european creeds and dogmas.
in writing. – in her presentation, german chancellor merkel was as lucid as usual but failed to clarify the basis of her priorities for europe’s future. among the three areas she listed wherein to develop greater european unity, came military defence and security. but which military threats are now looming over europe? and if they exist, why did she during her terms in office, allow german military spending to remain well below the levels of her european partners? indeed, is there uncontested support among european citizens for a military coalition that would be funded through eu budgetary resources? and is building a so-called european defence capability the right way to forge unity in europe and combat a fading enthusiasm for the european project? i doubt it. would it not be preferable for the eu to concentrate on coordinating security measures within the union to cover terrorism, immigration and surveillance over organised crime? mme merkel also mentioned as another priority area the problems of immigration. but were not these aggravated on a european level by the decisions she singlehandedly and without consultation took to open borders in 2015? unfortunately, the chancellor failed to contest the growing perception that too many decisions in the eu have come to depend on german say-so.
today is the end of a very long battle. when we started working on the abolition of roaming charges, everyone was skeptical and many did not believe that this was possible; but it did happen. our fight did not stop there and despite this victory, we continued to work to improve telecommunications for our citizens and to increase the benefits in this area. the ultimate aim was to end the exorbitant costs of telephone calls between one member state of the union and another. again, when we started working on this legislation and introduced the idea of inter-union calls, no one believed that this could be done and so there was no support, but the fact remains that we succeeded. today we are voting on legislation to set a limit on the price of calls between member states, and from next year european citizens will no longer have to worry about excessive costs when calling to another member state. we also managed to include a number of important points, including: enhancing consumer rights and contractual obligations, protecting the rights of people with disabilities, and the need to recognise that basic internet is affordable; it is a universal right. last but not least, for the first time we also have an agreement on a reverse 112 system, which is a number through which member states can alert and alert citizens via mobile phones in case of emergencies and disasters that are imminent or developing. at a time when european citizens are increasingly doubtful about the merits of the europe project itself, today's vote should be seen as a vote that can have a positive impact on the benefits of our citizens. thank you.
mr president, obviously all political and technological means should be employed to fully protect the european parliament elections from any attempt to manipulate public opinion and results. however, beyond outrage, we should seek to have a coherent position with regard to outside foreign interference in our political affairs. to achieve such coherence, we must also consider the inputs we make as europeans to the political and national affairs of outsiders. europe, as well as the us, has a wide—ranging reputation for having interfered in the internal political processes, democratic or not, of others. from mossadegh’s iran, to most african countries, to latin america, the middle east, libya and ukraine, we have interfered. when is our interference legitimate? when is it not? retaliation for it can take forms unexpected by us, and unacceptable to us. what retaliation is legitimate when others interfere in our affairs? and when we interfere in theirs? replies to such questions cannot be symmetric between countries and specific cases. after all, this parliament regularly holds debates that seek to influence political events in, and outside, europe. we need an overarching, coherent doctrine covering all these scenarios and aspects.
madam president, commissioners, if there is a message that this document conveys strongly, it is that we cannot continue to postpone the decisions we have to take. if we really want to have a decarbonised economy by 2050, just 30 years from now, we have to think about it today. the laws we are discussing today will pave the way for the next 12 years. a typical example is the law on the reduction of pollution from cars. it is now that we can either make the decisions that really make a difference, or we can submit to the interests of those who do not agree that this transition should take place. this document looks positive, but we cannot remain mere words on paper. this document sent a clear message that in the european union, the worst affected are those countries in the mediterranean, those countries that are close to the coast, or those countries that are below sea level. indications that the sea could rise by as much as seven metres if global temperatures rise by 1. 5 degrees celsius or 2 degrees celsius, i leave you to think about the consequences for those who, like me and like the people i represent, live near the sea. for us and for many citizens across europe, the price of inaction is too high, it means the existence of our country and our lives. as long as we continue to think that the economy and the environment are separate, i am not convinced that things will change. we must, today, agree to invest in innovation and research to find solutions that make economic sense and put the european union on the decarbonisation path.
chief negotiator on brexit. madam president, i thank those who spoke, in particular guy verhofstadt, elmar brok, roberto gualtieri, philippe lamberts and gabriele zimmer, for expressing, on behalf of their group, their appreciation of the work we have done. i'm sensitive to it. it's a really collective work. this was not a solo or individual work, it was a collective work. i was happy to take part in it because i know this assembly - i was elected to it at one time - i also know the european council and of course the commission, and it seemed very important to me to work as a skilled worker - i hope - at this unity between the 27 and between the institutions. the appreciation is for the work of my team, task force 50, and i will of course pass it on to my assistant, sabine weyand, to stéphanie riso and to the whole team who have deserved this appreciation and who will receive it as an encouragement. however, we are in a difficult and sad time, as you have both said. i would also like to say to mr farage and others that i have no wish to be controversial. i've never done one and i'm not going to start today. we listen to everyone, we respond to everyone, we dialogue with everyone and we will continue. as gabriele zimmer has said, the time for ratification remains and in the coming months we must prepare the future negotiations we need, on other legal bases, for the partnership with the united kingdom. we must also be vigilant, as guy verhofstadt has said, about the implementation of what is in this treaty, particularly on citizens' rights and the guarantees that must be confirmed and put into practice so that the procedures for european citizens in the united kingdom are as inexpensive and as simple as possible. so we must be vigilant and determined. this vote, which is expected by both sides, is a commitment to the future of the union. it is the future of the united kingdom. i say this with the respect that i mentioned earlier for the time of democratic debate in the united kingdom, which we respect. the united kingdom, with its culture, its history, its solidarity, especially in the great tragic moments that europe has gone through in the 20th century, its total solidarity, its economy, the quality of its diplomacy, is a very great country. i definitely have respect for this country and that is why i hope that as soon as possible we can work on a true partnership that is unprecedented in the breadth of the subjects of cooperation to consolidate our alliance beyond what we already do for many countries in the atlantic alliance of course or bilaterally to strengthen our partnership in another framework and to consolidate our friendship as well. mr farage, in these negotiations i have sometimes been asked whether the union would make concessions. no, it was never in my mind that there was a winner or a loser. brexit is a lose-lose. there is no added value. it is therefore a question of taking account of your sovereign decision - i say sovereign decision, mr lebreton. we respect this sovereign decision of a majority of british citizens and we are implementing it in accordance with the indications, demands and red lines expressed by the london government. i have worked all this year and a half with theresa may's government and what she said to accept or not to accept. how else do you want me to do it? we have negotiated with the london government, which has expressed its wish to leave the european union following the referendum, and then to leave the single market, because you no longer want to respect the regulatory framework, because you no longer want to respect the free movement of persons, because you no longer want to recognise the role of the court of justice and you no longer want to pay. in addition, you are leaving the customs union because you no longer want to be in a common trade policy. these are your red lines, and we respect them. but you must respect our determination to preserve the foundations of the european union and in particular this single market. i had the honour of being the commissioner for five years. this single market owes a great deal to the united kingdom. you have had a very great deal of influence in its construction and in its evolution, but you are leaving it because you no longer want to respect these four freedoms which are indivisible. i want to say with all due respect to geoffrey van orden: it's not inflexibility, it's not inflexibility; it is just responsibility. we have a duty, a responsibility, to work for an orderly withdrawal, to create security and stability where brexit creates insecurity. it's only an orderly withdrawal which creates a basis of trust for the deep and ambitious partnership we all want. that's what i meant. this negotiation is a negotiation because you are leaving the european union. you have decided to leave the european union and we regret it. it is obviously a negative negotiation, with no added value. that is why we have this sense of gravity, which does not prevent us from being clear-minded about drawing the lessons of this brexit. there are, as guy verhofstadt and elmar brok have said, lessons for us to learn, namely to understand the reasons for this vote and, if necessary, to change a number of things that should be changed to better respond to the concerns, demands and sometimes anxieties of the citizens. we have worked towards the unity that european leaders have wanted in the very serious geopolitical context in which we find ourselves. we are faced with challenges from all sides, and we have worked with this unity between the 27 member states and between the institutions. what i can only express as a wish at this stage of this process which is not yet complete, because the road is long and still very steep. we are waiting for the vote on 11 december and the ratification process on the british side of this agreement which is the only and best possible.
in writing. – on the one hand, it is clear that the brexit deal just signed is the only one possible in the circumstances. on the other hand it is equally clear that while the eu has safeguarded all its imperatives, the uk has retreated along all lines of engagement. in part this was because for various reasons, its negotiating positions and strategies were not so coherent. however the eu should be wary of driving its negotiating advantages as of now, to the extreme. this might lead to very serious unintended and unforeseeable consequences. in any agreement, a party that goes away with the feeling it has been given a raw deal, will later be tempted or driven to exact some form of compensation or retribution. witness the versailles treaty, or the russian position over recent years in reaction to how post-soviet arrangements in europe were played out. secondly, should there be any other eu government wishing to exit, it will have learnt the lesson of not doing it the british way under article 50 procedures. it could for instance first do its best to cause havoc from the inside in order to leverage and strengthen its position during exit negotiations.
the rapporteur. in fact, on the basis of rule 59 (4), i would like to ask that this matter be referred to the committee so that we can start interinstitutional negotiations.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members of parliament, ever since the beginning of this mandate, the commission and myself have given the highest attention to sound health and safety at the workplace, with clear rules that are enforceable and applied on the ground. we are delivering on our commitment to fight work-related cancer. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude rolin, for his whole-hearted commitment to this file since the very beginning. without his dedication, and the constructive support of the shadow rapporteurs and of all those involved, we would not be here today. the interinstitutional negotiations were not easy. for the parliament, one of the key points was to include diesel engine exhaust emissions under the scope of the directive as well as a limit value in its annex 3. thanks to an open and transparent dialogue and the willingness of the council to compromise in order to reach the common goal of strengthening workers’ protection, this point has been included in the text that you are adopting in this session. dear members of parliament, together with the first amendment of the directive, for which i am grateful for the work undertaken by ms ulvskog, we already cover 21 substances. this will make a real difference on the ground and prevent more than 100 000 cancer deaths over the next 50 years. we are giving concrete meaning to principle 10 of the european pillar of social rights, which provides that every worker has the right to a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment. delivering on this principle indeed implies ensuring protection from carcinogens at work. the second amendment will send a good message to citizens and will set the regular updating process of the carcinogens and mutagens directive on track for the years to come. there is still some work to do.
on behalf of the ppe group. the health and well-being of our citizens has always been, and should remain, a priority for this parliament. our job here is to safeguard the lives of our workers, of european workers and this law has exactly that aim. we need to recognise that the health risk at, or from, the workplace based on cancer-related diseases is significant, and we need to address this problem today before tomorrow. this can only be done by introducing regular revisions of our laws, especially this directive. today, at the request of parliament, we are seeing the successes that one of these revisions could bring, which set limits for five additional carcinogens. under the leadership of claude rolin in this debate, together with commissioner marianne thyssen, we managed to reach agreement on a number of essential elements that reduce workers' exposure to these dangerous substances to the absolute minimum level. we have also succeeded in eliminating these same substances and, where possible, even found substitutes for those that are dangerous. the health of workers is thus not endangered. every worker in the european union must always be a priority for us and we must do everything in our power, in our duty, to always put our health first.
mr president, allow me to refer also to the subject in the field of malta. in malta we have two thousand new cases of cancer every year and nine hundred deaths. it is precisely for this reason that i have made the fight against cancer a priority in my political work, including within this european parliament. i would remind you that the european union had already revised the permissible level of 21 substances and with today's vote we added five materials that can have a negative effect on the workplace, which is normally where we spend most of our time. i also want to take the opportunity today to thank the ngos that i have spoken to, that i have worked with, to be able to promote what they are talking about in our fight against cancer. it is also important to pass on all the necessary information to employers so that what we have voted on comes into force as soon as possible in the member states.
mr president, in the past few weeks i have had the opportunity to meet with people representing the cultural sectors both in malta and here in brussels and i have taken forward their proposals. i am pleased that the vote we took today also means more funding for festivals, more funding for accessibility; also for entities that are small in nature but which also make a major contribution to the cultural field; in the case of malta, i can mention the band casinos which are also philharmonic casinos promoting music education. for me, i always link culture and the agenda for culture to the best of our personality; to have a greater sense of leadership, to have a greater sense of looking at others in a positive way. unfortunately this is not always the case; is the attitude by the government of malta to use culture or even cultural heritage as an excuse to for example not allow people to pay homage to journalist daphne caruana galizia. culture must above all be linked to freedom of expression.
mr president, first of all a quick word of thanks to our rapporteurs: they have done a fantastic job on a very difficult topic, because sadly tackling terrorism and boosting security must now be one of the main areas of work for our union. there is a clear need to support member states and provide common solutions to what is a common existential threat we all face, both from networked terrorist groups and from lone wolves. it is impossible to distance the future of europe from the need to make our shared space more secure. there can be nothing without the freedom and security that defines the europe we know today, and we absolutely need to improve coordination between member states on this issue. if there is one critical, central lesson that we have learned from the attacks in europe, it is that. in recent years, we have moved in the right direction with the introduction of systematic checks at our external borders and legislation that will tackle radicalisation. and we have gone after those who incite in our communities and online. but it is not only online; we have to also go after the vulnerabilities in our prisons and stop those hate preachers who use the language of religion to inspire hatred. we have done a lot, but there is much more that needs to be done if we are to continue to address the people’s security concerns in europe, and we will not cease in our efforts until we secure a europe that is safer for everyone. i also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to those fallen in attacks around europe, and to underline that victims of terrorism and their families will always find this parliament standing shoulder—to—shoulder with them. finally, without strong borders, there can be no schengen. one is entirely dependent on the other, and that is one aspect that i will address in my european border and coast guard report next year.
