rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), most of the discussion we had was also on the sustainability criteria of bioenergy: for transport biofuels and also for the energy sector, when talking about gaseous and solid biomass. one clear point that the envi committee was pushing for was a total phase-out of palm oil use for biofuels. i am happy to see that in all the proposals, that part has been copied. so that seems to be a consensual issue within this house, and that is a good thing. however, the second point which was important for the envi committee was to make sure that the market will steer away from the food-based crops towards the advanced electricity. unfortunately, there are not enough proposals going in that direction: for example, the overall transport target that is still in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) position, which will push for food based crops again – we will try to make sure that that 12% ambition is maintained, but not as an overall transport target but there where the ambition should go to advance. the third point on bioenergy for the energy industry: really exclude burning whole trees. that is the only thing we are asking and that seems to be the most sensible thing to do.
it is very good that i have just one and a half minutes to speak on one of the most important subjects of this mandate. because let's face it, energy is what keeps everything in our lives running: not just the economy, but our daily lives. but europe has three major energy problems: (1) the price; 2) it is still too polluting; 3) we are far too dependent on imports from outside europe. let 's be honest . 2017 was the year we imported more gas from russia than ever before. for all three problems, the solution is the same: energy savings and a huge input of renewable energy. that's the way forward! is europe aware of this? as sean kelly said: is europe really becoming the renewable capital of the world? not if we take the commission's proposal or the council's rather weak action so far as a starting point. i look at countries like china, but also the united states -- even under president trump: they're going much faster than europe. and india, too, has a much higher growth rate in this area than europe. it's unprecedented. so if we as europe want to move forward in this area, if we want to become energy independent, if we want to have lower energy prices and also if we want to stay within the paris climate targets, then more ambition is really needed. and that has been the alde group's line from the beginning. it is badly needed economically, ecologically and geopolitically.
mr president, we have heard some wonderful stories about clean energy today. but what they don't talk about is: the examples that the people who tell those stories give themselves. and those examples are important, because they're what make you credible. because sincerity is in the sacrifice. my question is: what sacrifices have the people in this room made to save their ideals, a good environment? i'm not talking about buying a toyota prius, which you don't have to pay taxes on. i'm not talking about free solar panels or subsidized led lights. that's easy. no, i'm talking about real sacrifice, stuff that hurts a little. for example, taking cold showers every day or not taking a plane to sunny places for a vacation. that sort of thing! if that does not happen, then the words here are gratuitous and unbelievable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am thinking of the environment, innovation and european cooperation. but it is possible that these three points will be completely undermined tomorrow when we vote on mr mato's report. what do i mean? over the past decade, a very innovative and environmentally friendly fishing method has been developed in europe: the pulse fishery. proven benefits of this method: significantly less fuel consumption, significantly less co2 emissions, significantly less unwanted by-catches and significantly less disturbance of the north sea bottom. it is therefore logical that the european commission now wishes to authorize this method. but what do we see? misled by the paris-based loom organization, several delegates want to block this success story tomorrow. bye bye innovation, the environment and european cooperation. i would like to thank mr mato for his excellent cooperation. mr mato has shown himself to be a reliable european, a champion of the environment and innovation. his report deserves support! (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. well, this method is fully in line with the european rules of the game. so it's not a game, and it's certainly not cricket! and we see the european commission now saying: let's allow this method. it's been extensively studied, it's proven benefits. so you're actually doing a very strange thing if you're blocking this beautiful innovative method. hence the wholehearted support for what the commission is now advocating and for the release of this method, of course within the existing quotas we have. that remains the framework within which we operate.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. a race to the bottom of the sea, i understand. who can manage to empty the seas as quickly and efficiently as possible? the tree basket fishermen or the pulse basket fishermen? we know from the tree chorus that it has a devastating effect on the seabed and provides a lot of by-catch. we know from the electric pulse that it's deadly effective at catching tongues and in cod, it causes vertebral fractures and bleeding. but we don't know anything about the impact of the pulsar on the ecosystem. and we don't know what the effects are on sharks and rays, which are very sensitive to electricity. replacing one destructive fishing method with another is not the answer. let's put our emotions aside and wait for the scientific results before we lift the ban on the pulse chorus. we must also get rid of fishing gear that catches seabirds, dolphins and seals by-catch. a ban on driftnets is therefore necessary. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. an innovation that saves the seabed, the climate and the environment. this is evident from all the preliminary research results of wageningen university and wageningen marine research. and the commission took that as a basis. the dutch fishing families have invested heavily in this gear in recent years with european support and commitments to comply with the landing obligation. unfortunately, on the basis of fake news, a monster alliance and front of protectionism, the extreme right and the extreme left has formed in this parliament to put an end to this innovation. if their amendments are adopted, it will mean the death knell for many dutch fishing towns such as urk, den helder, scheveningen, stellendam and many more, and the death knell for the dutch whaling fleet. and above all - and do not forget this - the death knell for confidence in scientifically based and sound european legislation in this parliament. i call on all of you to support mato. because it was just said: some countries are going out of europe. and the netherlands, if we keep this up, too!
i welcome the european commission's proposal, which makes it possible to test new fishing techniques in practice. after a trial period and sufficient scientific research, it will be decided whether the new fishing technique can be used by our european fishermen: an admission procedure that is logical and accessible to everyone. i am therefore struck by the fact that some of my colleagues want to legislate in advance that pulse-cutting techniques should not be used by fishermen. the admission of the pulse chorus is thus politicised, rather than being decided by independent experts. what motivates them? is it an association they make with electric fishing? does the feeling of the gut play a part or is it purely for political-economic reasons and are the forerunners deliberately restrained? in any case, i think it is a shame that the pulse coral is not given the same opportunities as all the other new fishing techniques.
in 2015, there was a lot of pressure on the european parliament to agree to the adaptation of the common provisions regulation. exceptional measures were taken to assist greece in the form of additional prefinancing and a 100% cofinancing rate. it is therefore of great importance that the european commission communicates proactively and transparently on the effects of these measures. if this is not done, the effectiveness of these specific measures could be called into question. i think it is good that we have this debate, that we are starting to find answers to questions. but i still have questions, questions that remain. for example: what projects were finally 100% funded after the adjustment of the regulation and what was the effect on greece's competitiveness? i'm still in the dark about that, even today. i think it would be a good thing if the commission were to report to the european parliament on the effectiveness of these measures, in addition to this debate.
mr president, i would like to ask you why we are here. we're not here to get back at something we've loved doing: i'm going to be a very difficult situation. but the point is - the commissioner has just said this - that it is a very exceptional situation. we rushed her through here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and that's tax money! at the same time we agreed with the commission that it would inform us adequately. and when we appointed the permanent rapporteur, mr arimont, he asked questions. and actually the answer that the commissioner gives is great, but we want it on paper. we want to be able to judge it. so my question is very ultimate: i would like to see a debate on the four points we have mentioned here in the committee on regional development, in fact, and also with the others here in parliament. because i remember some of them not being so loyal to giving away that free money. so there was a lot of debate at the time, we used an accelerated procedure and you, as the commission, undertook to inform us and then to act. when will that be?
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, the conclusions of the european council do not contain one word on migration or brexit. obviously, the council is in need of proper guidance, so allow me: mass migration blasts us back to the middle ages, which reveals that the globalist elite wants the people to be ignorant and obedient once again. they let the illiterate march in in their millions; they let political opponents be silenced; and they let islam become the ruling ideology, as their followers are subservient cannon fodder. that is why poland and hungary must be sanctioned. now, let us be clear. poland and hungary defend the true rule of law and true human rights, so i urge this commission to fully support the polish and hungarian governments and to congratulate austria on their new government. for the same reasons, the globalist elite seeks to destroy the united kingdom with a horrid deal of death, by exclusion from the single market or complete and utter submission to the directives of the european commission and the jurisdiction of the european court of justice, as well as an astronomical brexit bill. imagine the panic. no deal will bring the uk eur 650 billion. no deal will cost the eu eur 500 billion, so the benefit of the single market is clearly a fairy tale. i warn this commission, once again, that the road to federalism is a dead end. change your course and aim at the sovereignty of the nation state.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the people in iran have taken to the streets en masse in peaceful demonstrations, asking for a more just, open and free society, as well as less corrupt leadership. they deserve the eu’s unequivocal support and should know that the eu has their rights and their freedoms at heart, and at the top of our political agenda. i do worry that the messages from the eu are not clear enough. yes, we should stick to our word on the nuclear deal and keep iran to its commitments, but this should not prevent us from engaging the islamic republic’s leaders on human rights and foreign policy. in syria, yemen, iraq and lebanon, iran plays a toxic role. just because we are both against isis or daesh, it does not mean we share objectives or interests otherwise. of course the iranian people are well aware that the billions worth of support for hezbollah and assad’s murder machine are not spent on healthcare, infrastructure or education in iran itself. when the nuclear deal was negotiated, we were constantly reminded that the talks did not cover human rights or iran’s role in the region, so along the same vein we should not allow for the question marks that president trump puts to the nuclear deal now to blur our sight. precisely because human rights and iran’s foreign policy are not part of the nuclear deal, we can confidently address these topics any time, and we are free to adopt more individual eu sanctions, and should not shy away from that. for the eu to be credible, we need to be heard clearly on all fronts, and not just in defence of the nuclear deal. i urge the authorities to free all imprisoned demonstrators and to stop the torture and executions in the prisons, because i am convinced – and i hope we all are – that the march to freedom by the iranian people is unstoppable.
shirin ebadi, a prominent iranian human rights lawyer and nobel peace prize winner, has today sent a strong message to european governments, to the eu as a whole, and to the european parliament. in the mutual hunt for lucrative trade agreements with the rulers of the islamic republic of iran, europeans must not forget that they - and i quote mrs ebadi - shake the hands of those who allow women to be stoned and the political opposition in their country to be persecuted and killed. end of quote. the european union is also calling on the united states to take the necessary steps to ensure that the united states is able to comply with the international obligations it has under the un security council. i have very little illusions, however, about whether the eu will really heed the passionate plea of shirin ebadi and many other iranians. - why? - why? in that case, the eu should clearly and sharply distance itself from the iranian reign of terror and from its own geopolitical failure in the middle east under the camouflage of the nuclear agreement. the european union must now be realistic and honest in its policy towards tehran. the heartfelt words of courageous iranian protesters can serve as a guide for brussels. invest in a dignified life for your own citizens instead of the islamic revolutionary guard corps' regional destabilizing power aspirations. my question to mrs mogherini and her deputy, commissioner hahn, is this: the eu is on which side in iran?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when i was in kenya leading the eu election observation mission (eom), people would often ask whether we were holding kenya or africa to lower standards of democracy. the resounding answer is no. it is unacceptable to hold kenya, or any country for that matter, to a lower standard. instead, the eu assesses the extent to which elections meet kenya’s own legal standards and commitments under human rights and international law. unfortunately, during the 2017 elections, people’s rights were not always upheld and trust was eroded. our final report, which is available for everyone to read, looks at the gap between law and practice and gives 29 recommendations. the elections laid bare existing tensions and created new ones that all kenyans suffer from. no, the standoff has not resulted in as many casualties as in the past, but every death – and every death by a police bullet – is one too many. some kenyans complained that the world only has attention for the country when tensions escalate into violence. i believe the eu should be smarter and engage kenya on core topics that benefit all kenyans: strengthening the rule of law and good governance, supporting civil society and respect for human rights, fighting corruption and overcoming ethnic tensions. these are just a few areas that i do not think we hear enough about, while we hear lots about countering terrorism and trade and other such issues. anyone who has followed the discussions on kenya knows that over the past week strong words have been used against me. these statements have been revealing, but i hope mudslinging will not distract from the substantial discussion on our recommendations on electoral reform and on the joint way forward for kenyans. i would like to thank the commissioner, the external action service and colleagues for their words of support for the work of my team and the recommendations that we make. i am glad that the eu speaks with one voice. i call on kenya’s political leaders from both sides to show constructive leadership and rebuild trust. integrity should be baked into the electoral system, regardless of who is in charge and the independence of institutions such as the judiciary should clearly be respected by all. over the past days, when people read the more critical remarks in our report, they said: ‘but kenya is the most successful country in east africa’. yet, just because things could be worse, it does not mean that they are good or good enough. i remain convinced that we should never hold kenya to a lower standard, including on the respect for human rights. i have met many kenyans who are keen to enjoy the highest levels of democracy in their country. i wish them strength going forward and for the eu to be their principled partner.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, the billion-euro commercial market in ready-made surveillance systems remains largely unregulated, and that is astonishing in light of the capabilities that companies in surveillance, hacking and exfiltration technologies are further and further developing. while many politicians claim to be concerned with cyber security, anyone who can afford it can buy systems that collect massive amounts of data, can break into people’s devices without the consent of the user, and information can be removed unnoticed. this is unacceptable and regulation lags behind. the digital surveillance market should worry us in europe, but the consequences of exports to dictatorships where the rule of law is absent is even more grave and unacceptable. the arab uprisings seven years ago were often associated with the use of technology to advance human rights, but it has become crystal clear how repressive regimes have mastered technologies for their own goals and control, and this is not limited to the middle east. human rights defenders, journalists, critical citizens, dissidents and representatives of civil society are targets worldwide. it has taken a long time for there to be eu action but i’m very glad that we found broad consensus to update the dual-use regulation that will tackle this toxic trade with targeted measures on the basis of human security. surveillance systems will require a licence before export, human rights will become a clear criterion to assess before a licence is granted, and definitions will be clear, so the private sector will not suffer or be hindered unnecessarily, and we in turn count on their cooperation. similarly, we seek a predictable level playing field in europe. we need to end the notion of so-called ‘licence shopping’ where a company maybe rejected a licence in, for example, the netherlands, but can be granted one in, for example, italy. at the same time – and i am glad the commissioner mentioned it – security researchers should be able to do their job, which sometimes requires coordinated attacks on systems precisely to make them more resilient and robust. an encryption which actually helps people to protect data doesn’t belong on a controls list. we call for the lifting of export controls on that. i look forward to a swift trilogue that can start under the bulgarian presidency without delay. it is good to see such a coming-together of minds between our three institutions which can have a real impact in the real world.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr buchner, who has worked hard to obtain broad support for this report. i am glad that we are now dealing with this report. it's really needed. the internet technology is advancing so fast that we are increasingly pursuing facts. there are several european companies that sell technology to countries with a bad human rights record. for example, we know that people have been tortured in bahrain based on text messages that they exchanged and that were intercepted with the technology of those european companies. we have to stop that. it is therefore important that there are clear and unambiguous rules which provide a basis for practical application. it is of the utmost importance that human rights are tested. otherwise, this review is really pointless. i would therefore like to call on my colleagues to support this report so that we have a broad base of support in the trialogue. i would also like to call on the member states to work hard towards an ambitious implementation. we're not there yet. and it's very important that we commit ourselves to human rights.
there are many fine words being spoken here, but the elephant in the room is that all the fine rules are non-deductible on the one hand and are being undermined by the arbitration clause on the other. mrs malmström, you have an obligation to ensure that companies have not only rights but also duties, and that they comply with them. the un committee on economic, social and cultural rights obliges states to include human rights in their trade policies. and while the oecd guidelines for multinationals are not binding, you can explicitly include them in free trade and investment agreements. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the european commission is very attentive to the wishes of companies and we know that investment protection is given full scope. how are you going to ensure that they move within the boundaries of the un and the oecd?
in writing. in my view, the cake is still unevenly distributed when it comes to the benefits of international trade. shareholders and employers benefit more from trade than, for example, workers or the environment. it's got to be different. not just for workers or the environment, but also to prevent unfair competition between companies. i admit that the history of the trade agreements concluded by the european union shows a positive learning curve. for example, the trade agreement with south korea includes a sustainability clause. however, this is not enforceable. in ceta we have called for the enforceability of decent labour and environmental standards. the european union must ensure that the chapters on labour and environmental standards can be enforced in practice. this means, for example, that people should be able to join trade unions and have the right to collective action. these standards must be enforceable at local level by people, with reference to the trade agreement. only in this way can the european union combat social or environmental dumping in third countries.
in writing. following the debate in the european parliament with bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov, the pvda's european delegation calls on bulgaria to push for a political agreement on the various migration dossiers as eu presidency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in addition, it is important that bulgaria does more to tackle corruption in the country, as many other european citizens are also affected.
for the ecr group the title of this debate is 'the future of europe'. that's a little abstract to me, to be honest. it's about the future of our citizens! it is logical that in the presence of the irish prime minister, brexit is central. the answer from many european leaders is: never wasted a good crisis, full throttle ahead to more europe. i think that pushing for ever closer union is 'penny wise but pound foolish' and will have the opposite effect on our citizens. yes, it is true, the latest eurobarometer polls show that people are feeling a little more positive about europe. but let us not forget that in recent years every referendum on europe has turned out badly for the pro-europeans. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. if the citizens are more positive about europe, why do they always vote against it? i think our citizens want to see a europe that really works. but it doesn't! we introduced the euro on the basis of the no-bailout clause and the stability and growth pact. then we ignore those two and start to go through the details of each other's national budgets. that is of course a rather useless exercise when enforcement against the structural budgetary sinners, such as france, has been lacking for years. and then we have to start with a eurozone budget and european debt securities? that seems to me the best route to take to see a renewed 'no' from our citizens and a low turnout in the european elections. what is it? i think a pass at the place. and first of all, to maintain and, above all, to fulfil what we have agreed with each other. that's how we'll win back the trust of the citizens. that is real solidarity and offering real hope!
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, let me give you a scenario that’s not in the white book of mr juncker. when the eu continues on its present course, the future of europe will be islamic. that is the objective of the islamic world, and that is the objective of the eu elite. it is the aim of the open border policy and it is the aim of this criminal mass immigration. of course there are casualties of abuse, murder and rape. that’s the price to pay for the extermination of national identities. that is deliberate eu policy. there is only one obstacle on the road to the european caliphate, and that is the patriotic citizens who vote for patriotic parties. the eu has declared these parties their enemies, their biggest threat. in the eu, the rule of law do not apply to patriots. they are homo sacer. the future of europe is the caliphate, unless the citizens rise and defend their culture and identity.
mr president, i apologise to the house for the state of my voice. maybe a good irish whiskey would help. at the end of this debate, i would like to thank the prime minister for honouring the past but looking towards the future. this is exactly what europe needs right now. sometimes the current situation in europe reminds me of that famous poem ‘the second coming’ by the great irish poet yeats, in which he describes a falcon moving further and further away from the falconer until it can no longer hear him, and then comes the famous line ‘things fall apart; the centre cannot hold’. these centrifugal forces are, of course, also at play in the eu, culminating in brexit which will impact your country, mr varadkar. i’m aware of that. and it will impact my country, the netherlands, and we should limit that impact as far as we can. but this – i am glad to say – was not a debate about brexit: it was a debate about the future. it was a debate about making the centre hold on those issues where we stand no chance of defending our values and interests alone. by only acting alone and by only flying a national flag, as you said, we will in the end all be small member states. thank you for your outstretched hand. we in the european parliament will gladly take it. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, fake news is, of course, an issue affecting all ages. it has always been there. it comes from many states, as well as from private actors. but today in the internet age, people are very unclear as to where it comes from and who has sent this news. indeed, as the commissioner said, in order to have media literacy, it should be clear who has written these messages. what is interesting is that those who were at maidan square to support the democratic revolution against – let me say – the cronies of mr putin, find ourselves back on internet. i have seen myself at maidan square with big guns in my hands, but the guns were so big that they were bigger than my hands themselves. normally, you would say that it’s nonsense, but people believe it. why were you at maidan square with a gun? well, again, i was not there. that is why i am sympathetic to the idea of president macron of france that there must be transparency, on the platforms too, as to where the news comes from. this is not intended to have a negative impact on news; there should be freedom of news, but there should be transparency as to where it comes from. you also have to see who sponsors it, because if you read something on the internet, you should know if it is supported by the state or by a private agency. therefore, there must be transparency, and that is the most important thing concerning this. once again, the best thing is that we provide not counter propaganda, but facts, facts and more facts, so that not only the russians, but also the chinese people and others, can have access to sources that they don’t normally have access to. again, let us try to be active and not selective. it is not only russia, but also china and others.
thank you, mr president. this debate is based on false assumptions, fake news. the dutch minister responsible, mrs ollongren, could not give any serious example in the house of commons of russian influence on the opinion of the dutch citizen. the european commission does have some influence. it 's not allowed , but it 's done systematically . the european parliament has been a key player in the elections in italy and spain and in the brexit referendum. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: a democratic vote against the union is not possible. brussels has a shocking lack of confidence in the electorate and therefore sees little in democracy. it's just a little tricky, these changing preferences. that's why we're moving towards european censorship laws. it's creepy. this is not going to end well. not for the media, not for the public, not for freedom of speech. mr. president, we have to choose: this european union or our freedom. i've already made my choice. thank you, sir.
this debate is not about russia alone. it's much deeper than that. in public spaces, we think it's normal to know who we're dealing with. on the internet and social media, on the other hand, you can anonymously spread all kinds of untruths, or as the unmasked dutch troll who was active during the ukraine referendum said: of course i'm lying about the ukraine. employers, businesses and educators will need to join hands to give people the tools to distinguish opinions from facts and real from fake. i would like to ask the commission how we can tackle anonymity on the internet and what the right balance is between privacy and transparency. if twitter can check blue to identify the real beyoncé among all the fake accounts, why can't we check who's identity is known, who's not, and who's clearly just a computer? i believe that this challenge is at the heart of our democracy. let me underline this, especially for our colleagues in the enf group, with a short quote from hannah arendt: the ideal subject of totalitarian rule is not a convinced nazi or a dedicated communist, but people for whom the distinction between fact and fiction, true or false, no longer exists.
mr president, propaganda is nothing new, but with the kremlin, and certainly other governments and non-state actors also actively seeking to influence european audiences and undermine democratic values, we should not be naive. what is new is the exponential spread through social media, the lack of transparency of political advertisements online, and the selection of the order in which information is presented by unaccountable companies’ algorithms. this impacts people’s access to information and thus democratic resilience. but in the quest for solutions, the worst thing we can do is to erode the very freedoms we need to defend. a few action points: we need transparency rules for political advertisements online. we need algorithmic accountability and the tackling of botnets and trolls. we should actively try to reach russian-speaking minorities in europe and populations in the countries around europe directly in russian language with pluralist sources and opinions. we should defend and promote democratic values in europe and abroad and not compromise them.
thank you, mr president. russian president putin has a new weapon in his arsenal against the democratic west: the deliberate dissemination of misinformation. this is done, among other things, through social media, but also - as we noted today in the debate - through the funding of political parties in europe, in order to disrupt democratic processes. the greatest threat is to russia's neighbours, mostly young democracies. but we also saw how effective russian propaganda was in brexit and in the us election. first of all, we must recognize that russian propaganda is a serious threat to our open democratic societies. that's the case. we must do more to protect our citizens from this. the european commission will make recommendations in the spring. technology companies like facebook will have to be more transparent about advertisers and about the algorithms that determine what we see at all. in order to underline the seriousness of the matter and to raise awareness, we should organise an annual debate in the european parliament to debate with each other on the basis of information (including from stratcom). thank you.
madam president, some years ago a number of adults – or should i say people pretending to be adults – created a global financial crisis because of their greed and immaturity. the crisis turned into an economic crisis which affected millions of young people. they had no part in causing it, yet the effects will affect their lives profoundly. this is why i think it is no more than normal that the eu member states have together committed themselves to protecting young people through the youth guarantee. it is not an issue of charity, but one of decency. luckily unemployment is decreasing now – and i am very glad that it is – but youth unemployment in member states, such as greece, spain and italy, which have already been mentioned by the commissioner, are still shocking, so we are not there yet. we owe it to young people to keep assisting them. firstly, we have to insist that jobs and traineeships made possible throughout our initiative hit the spot. this initiative should not only guarantee the development of skills among young people and ensure their integration on the labour market, because it is not only for jobs – the initiative is for life. i want to remind member states that it is not about lip service, but the future of their young people. secondly, i think the youth employment initiative needs to be transformed from an anti—crisis instrument into a more stable financing instrument for tackling youth unemployment. we need not only to maintain the initiative after 2020, but we need to increase the funding. may i remind you that the ilo fund, which guarantees young people a job or training, costs eur 45 million, whereas the current initiative has only eur 9 million to spend.
today we are discussing the implementation of the youth employment initiative. the european union has imposed an obligation on member states to offer a job, further training, a place in apprenticeship or a traineeship within a period of four months. an unrealistic ambition, where everyone knows in advance that such a thing is not possible. the eu's meddling and waste of money is again unlimited. once again, the impact of the billions invested is unmeasurable. the objectives are not being met and people are covering up in advance. and what is the solution of the world-alien european elite? with more money, of course. the taxpayer is paying for these absurd, unworkable plans. the report goes no further than opening doors and listing vague generalities. the only way to really tackle youth unemployment is to tailor it at the national level. in short, sovereignty and power back to the member states.
the first debate i was allowed to hold as a member of parliament in july 2014 was on this very subject. we then called at the beginning of this parliamentary term for youth unemployment to be made an absolute priority. looking back over the last three and a half years, i think we have succeeded in doing that, thanks in particular to the strong cooperation between parliament and commissioner thyssen. 132 measures have been adopted in the member states, 1.6 million young people have benefited from them and youth unemployment in the eu has fallen sharply. and yet i have a bit of a mixed feeling about it. because it's nice to be able to help so many young people. but at the same time, it's sad that this was necessary and still is. because we still see shockingly high levels of youth unemployment in many european countries. so more needs to be done, first of all in the member states themselves. structural reforms, better use of available funds and better matching of supply and demand in the labour market are absolutely necessary and can also be encouraged from europe. many of the issues have already been mentioned, but let me mention one specific theme: if we want to give young people a future in europe, we must not only want to cross borders, but also be able to see beyond them. i think one of the important things is: attention to neighborhood language education. member states should encourage pupils to learn the languages of their neighbours from a very early age. we shall be addressing this in the resolution tomorrow and i ask the commission to follow suit. in a beautiful border province like my own limburg, which is situated between germany and belgium, this is absolutely crucial.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, many thanks from my side to the commission for their strategy paper. if a few years ago, someone had told me that two vice-presidents would present a strategy on plastics in parliament i would have sent that person to the madhouse. so it is great to see that commitment from the commission, and leafing through the strategy, i must say the analysis is very strong, the language is right and the intentions are very, very promising. if the european commission were a consultancy firm i would certainly recommend it to all my friends and businesses around. but the commission is a political body; not only that, it is the only political body that can propose legislative proposals. and that is what is still lacking here. i know some elements are technically difficult: setting common standards for biodegradable plastics is not easy, and i know there’s a huge scientific debate behind that. but there are many other elements that are much less complicated and that have already been considered by the commission for years and years, even by previous commissioners. ms girling has already mentioned that tackling the use of micro plastics in cosmetics would have been easy, and it would have been quite easy to set minimum standards for recycled content in the ecodesign directive. and what about measures on single-use plastics? that has been done the around the world so concluding, i’m very happy with the strategy, but i had expected a little bit more on the legislative part. i know that your intention is to come forward with those, please do so during your mandate because if it is left to the next commission we don’t know if the same two vice-presidents will still be still there.
author. the bloody conflict in nigeria between nomadic cattle farmers and land-locked farmers is a conflict over scarcity, a conflict over drought. it's about the climate. people are forced to move their livestock to the south to find fertile land, while others have their crops and plants there. if we in europe want to understand this and intervene in it, we must not reduce this to a religious conflict between muslims and christians. because then we're doing exactly what's happening in nigeria right now, where politicians are using the difference in religion to give this struggle a different connotation. if we're looking for conflict resolution, we have to recognize that we're dealing with a climate problem, a lifestyle problem, a scarcity problem. another issue that the greens are calling for attention to when it comes to human rights, conflict and nigeria is the situation in the niger delta. the role of oil and oil multinationals in nigeria, in collaboration with a corrupt government, continues to further destabilize the country. it is therefore our task and that of europe to bring our multinationals to justice - and i am thinking in particular of shell - to ensure that justice is done to the people of the niger delta. we can do something to stabilize nigeria, namely by calling our multinationals to the mat and not simplifying conflicts to religious debates.
author. – madam president, nigerians have been suffering from increased violence caused by economic and political tensions between ethnic and religious groups, but they are all fighting over scarce resources. many farmers and pastoralists have lost their lives and property. at the same time, the population is suffering from brutal attacks. boko haram has attacked muslims, christians and people of all faiths indiscriminately and, particularly terribly, has kidnapped and raped innocent young girls. today we urge the nigerian government, together with international partners, to increase efforts to bring terrorism and violence to a halt, to protect the rights of all citizens and to take action to resolve the devastating intercommunal conflicts. effective tackling of corruption and ensuring a more even distribution of resources should benefit all nigerians, and, in fighting terror, it is essential that state security forces respect human rights.
indian. first of all, i fully agree with the final paragraphs 16 and 17 of the joint resolution on the need and urgency for a unified, strong position by all 28 eu member states on the serious human rights situation in china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not yet clear whether the commission will take any action to combat fraud. i am happy to share with you the stand taken by his brave wife, li ching-yu, for your consideration. i quote: if china believes that my husband's actions spreading democratic values and helping the families of political prisoners are a threat to china's national security, then the citizens of taiwan will not only turn even more strongly against any alignment with china, but also hesitate to maintain close relations with china. madam president, colleagues, to think about, here, inside and outside china.
author. – madam president, the situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate. the elections keep being postponed and, worse, there is violent repression, and there are killings and widespread human rights violations, such as rape and torture. protests held in december against the president were met with live ammunition, tear gas and rubber bullets fired by security forces. meanwhile, the un is denied access to hospitals, morgues and detention facilities and has not been allowed to observe the demonstrations, and human rights defenders are being arrested without warrants. so we call on the congolese authorities to immediately and unconditionally release all prisoners of conscience, and to carry out independent investigations into the violent repression of protests. we urge the un, too, to play a role here, as well as the international criminal court (icc), looking into the claims that criminal activities and crimes against humanity have been perpetrated by the security forces in kasai province. it is good to see that the eu has now adopted targeted sanctions. individuals who perpetrate human rights violations must be held to account.
on 29 and 30 december 2017, seven human rights activists were arrested. they're still trapped. i want to name them all here: he was also involved in the recruitment of foreign fighters to fight in the drc. they're all active in the filimbi movement. i'm also concerned about the fate of palmer kabeya. no one seems to know where this human rights activist went. the elections in congo are being postponed time and time again, and president kabila is increasingly cracking down on activists and the opposition. people with courage who, after decades of violence, still haven't given up. people who have the best interests of their country at heart. meanwhile, the country is experiencing a humanitarian disaster: some 4 million children are at risk of severe malnutrition. millions of people are internally displaced, and the situation is particularly dire in the provinces of kasai and tanganyika. meanwhile, there is a huge shortage of money in the aid organizations. who's gonna be the one to pull the strings for this country? who sees a future in that? last christmas i finally read that book by naipaul, "a bend in the river". naipaul sketches a huge picture of the country. it's a kind of concession. it's never gonna be anything again! the congolese people cannot afford such a concession. and neither can we.
mr president, i have two very specific questions for president draghi. first of all, since 2014, the ecb’s annual reports have referred to monetary financing issues in hungary. the ecb has repeatedly asked for assurances that central bank resources are not being used for financing the state as this is banned under article 123 of the treaties. in 2016, in response to a question from my colleague mr bullmann, the ecb stated that it was monitoring the situation. in 2017, i put the same question and got the same reply, namely that you were monitoring the situation. now it is 2018, do you consider that the situation in hungary has been remedied or is there evidence of a violation of article 123? my second question is as follows. in several member states the pension systems show considerable weaknesses and shortcomings, and that is contrary to the aim of sustainable public finance. do you consider that governments are doing enough to reform their pension systems?
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, let me begin by thanking the commissioner for her firm words, because we all share the outrage over the news of the tests on monkeys and humans last week. and that outrage is entirely justified. because this has nothing to do with scientific research. in fact, this is the undermining of scientific research - as my colleague mr van brempt said - similar to the tobacco industry. it shows once again that the moral compass of the european car industry is in full swing. the dieselgate scandal began more than two years ago and despite the many promises made by the car industry, millions of dirty diesels are still driving through europe. that's one of the biggest scandals. but the biggest scandal of all is, of course, that our member states - and the commissioner stressed that too - are allowing the car industry to show that it is above the law. because they didn't test properly. they didn't hold. there are no mandatory recalls. and there are no fines. where are the german fines for volkswagen? where are the british fines for skoda? and where are the italian fines for fiat? they're not here! my question to the commission is: even in the absence of the council: what can the european commissioner himself do about this? that is, of course, one of the main questions. we wanted to raise this issue in the debate in the committee on the environment last week. unfortunately, we have not yet had a written answer to our written questions. i would be very grateful if we could have that answer before we can debate it again with you in the committee on the environment. but thank you for being firm today.
i am glad to speak after mr voigt, mr president, because he is confusing everything. the decision is binding within the eu. this has nothing to do with russia or anything outside of it. this is about the internal market and the way we have set up the case. and our citizens deserve that. no more price discrimination online. it does not matter where you buy in the eu. it affects everyone. why should a rental car at my national airport schiphol in the netherlands cost me more than a resident of another member state who comes to the counter? and why would a ticket to eurodisney in paris cost me more than the french if i book online? no more arbitrariness, including in the terms and discounts offered. i am also pleased that rosa thun has worked so hard and with the support of the estonian presidency has achieved a clear result that is also enforceable by supervisors. we are opening the page to the digital single market for which we are now making so many proposals. only 15% of consumers buy across borders in the union and the number of businesses now entering the digital market is also still low. so, good move. the next stage will be the digital audiovisual services. that could be done in two years. i'm very pleased. i don't understand where you get your example from. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. the point is that we must treat businesses and citizens alike here in the european union. i don't know exactly what the publicity is, if you can stop it. the same procedure applies to this. advertising is sometimes part of the messages being conveyed. but the bottom line is that citizens are treated the same wherever they make a purchase.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking julie girling for the excellent job she has done as our rapporteur, especially jumping in late when ian duncan had to step down. she might not yet deserve the title of baroness but the mechanism should certainly be named after julie girling instead of ian duncan. today’s result: what shall we make of it? well, only the future will tell us whether what we have been doing has been sufficient. we do know that the price of carbon credits has gone up by about 20% so far, so it might be successful. surplus of allowances, we tackled that. i think the coal phase-out in germany, the netherlands and italy is easier to achieve now. the innovation fund has been increased, which is important; and i think one of the major improvements that parliament has made is that the modernisation fund is not applicable to coal-fired investments. that is very successful. but there are two elements i would like to stress. first of all, carbon leakage. we are still handing out 95% of all allowances for free to industry, even for sectors that have no real trade or carbon intensity. that is still something that is not too good. and lastly, we continue referring to conclusions from the european council from 2014. that is like in the renaissance looking back to the middle ages! let us please stop referring to those pre, pre, pre-paris conclusions from council – and that applies to both the commission and the council. let’s move forward! paris is beyond 2014.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i too would like to thank julie girling, who stepped in later in the process and did a great job in delivering this result. i know you probably are not happy back home, ms girling, but the greens too are thanking you. that doesn’t help you at home, but still the thanks are there, and we as greens can also support the reform because it’s an improvement on what we have. though let’s be honest: it is not very difficult to get an improvement on what we have, right? and that is really still the problem. finally we are doing something on the surplus of allowances, and getting rid of that surplus to a certain extent, but we’re not there yet. this system is still not functioning right. the prices are now around eur 10, whereas we know that, for paris implementation, prices need to be around eur 40 or 50, and we know that the emission trading system alone will not deliver that. so this is a good basis we have developed, we can support the improvement, but now it’s time for member states to take national action and implement additional, national, policies because this alone will not deliver paris, and you all know that.
a lot has been said in this debate. i would like to congratulate mrs julie girling on her negotiations. both in the committee on the environment and in the committee on industry it was clear that we wanted ambition on the one hand - because, yes, the system had to be adjusted - but also realism, so that our industry, our innovation and our jobs did not go elsewhere. this is not good for the climate - we are often the cleanest producers in the world - or for employment. of course, you have to keep pushing the industry to innovate. but you should be helping them with that, instead of bullying them out of here. i am therefore also very pleased that the innovation fund has been strengthened so that developments such as carbon capture and storage, the projects currently being carried out in the port of rotterdam, can hopefully be implemented. the same applies to carbon capture and recycling, the plan to transport co2 from the chemical cluster in geleen to the greenhouses in north limburg, where it can be used as a raw material. i believe that these are the projects that we need in europe. the smart solutions that drive innovation but also keep european hands busy.
mr president, it is at moments like this that we realise that the european union is a community of values. we stand for freedom of democracy and of expression, and we stand for the strong rule of law. clearly these six countries do not live up to these values yet. for example, for serbia i am concerned with media freedom; i’m concerned with the attacks on members of the lgbti community; i’m concerned about the relations with kosovo. this shows that even a frontrunner still has a long way to go, and no specific dates can be attached to this. i can only hope that serbia and these other countries will choose the path of european values. but this path goes two ways. it’s good the commission has given a real perspective to the western balkans, and as a community we should reach out and help to bring them closer.
president. - there is of course hope now that mr mugabe has left and there is a new president in zimbabwe. but emmerson mnangagwa has a history in that country. emmerson mnangagwa is a comrade of mugabe, who was involved in the killings in matabeleland. well, you never make peace with nice people - i understand that very well - and it's obviously a step forward that this change has been peaceful. but we must also realize that there is much more wrong with that country than just an economic problem. i do think that emmerson mnangagwa will have a different kind of economic policy and that is good for international investors as well. but if we just give him the benefit of the doubt now because he's not robert mugabe, then we're missing an opportunity, too. the election is in july or june. after the elections, this government, which is composed of a very large number of military personnel, has been given new legitimacy. before that time, they're looking for legitimacy. i think it is time to ask for democratic changes too. the public order security act, for example, can be changed. the country has been working on constitutional reforms for decades. there is no reason to wait until after the election to put that demand to mr mnangagwa. the civil society is weak at the moment. that is also because we europeans said a few years ago after that government of national unity: "forget it, we're going to bet on the government now". the opposition is incredibly weak. so we can assume that after the elections in june or july there will be a zanu-pf parliament. then it's time to reorganize your checks and balances. so it is up to us now to ask questions about democratization and to help civil society.
president, the eu's enlargement always looks eastwards, to corrupt and unstable countries such as albania and ukraine. but why not look to the south? why is the south being discriminated against? because if we look south, we'll eventually come across zimbabwe. and i think zimbabwe is the ideal new country to come and strengthen the eu. i'll explain why. zimbabwe has historical ties with europe and the official language is english. in addition, zimbabwe is capable, the people of zimbabwe are capable of unleashing a revolution, removing the president without the help of mr van baalen or mr verhofstadt. and finally, it is a country that has already received so much eu aid - hundreds of millions of euros - that the accession fees have actually already been paid. so, through you, mr president, i would like to ask mrs mogherini to step over her own shadow and to offer zimbabwe eu membership.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to say to osman kavala, ahmet şık and selehattin demirtaş that, at the moment, as turkey is going through a difficult period, it needs brave people like you to stand up for human rights and respect for the rule of law. but, for having done exactly that, you are now in a prison cell. while you cannot follow this debate, i hope your lawyers and family will inform you that we have not forgotten you and we will continue to plead for your release, as your arrests were politicised and arbitrary. osman kavala, ahmet şık and selehattin demirtaş are not the only innocent people in jail in turkey. while the perpetrators of the heinous coup attempt must be prosecuted and brought to justice, many, many people have become victims of the massive crackdown on all democratic opposition voices. the numbers are mind-boggling – more than 150 000 people fired and more than 50 000 imprisoned. but remember that all these people have a faith, have a family and have friends who are hoping that normalisation is still possible. the state of emergency has led to a situation where the government can rule by decree without parliamentary or judicial scrutiny. every aspect of turkish society has become securitised, meaning that all those who voice criticism of the government’s policies are being labelled as terrorists or terrorist supporters. legitimate and peaceful opposition is thus being silenced, in real life and on social media. in the past two weeks, almost 500 people were detained for peacefully opposing turkey’s military operation in afrin. there is also a structural problem with the lack of independence of the judiciary, and we witnessed last month how big that problem is. first, there was a ruling by the constitutional court to release jailed journalists mehmet altan and şahin alpay as their rights had been violated and, although the orders of the highest court were crystal clear, a local penal court decided to keep them in detention. last week, we witnessed another travesty of justice. the wife and daughters of turkey’s amnesty international chair were waiting in front of the gates of the prison in izmir to welcome their loved one after eight months’ imprisonment. a judge had ruled earlier that day that he should be released, but within a couple of hours the same judge decided to order his rearrest. and, for all those people who lost their jobs by decree, there is so far little hope of remedy. high representative mogherini, the eu is preparing a mini summit with turkish president erdogan at the end of march. we could read in the papers that no preconditions have been put on the table, but i hope you can tell us what you expect in terms of results from such a meeting. we in parliament expect the eu to be loud and clear on human rights in turkey, as you were in your introduction just now, not only because these are the values on which our union is based, and which turkey as a candidate should adhere to, but also because we risk losing credibility and the support of a majority in turkish society if we don’t stand up for their rights in these dark times.
madam president, each time we debate turkey more damage has been done to the rule of law, to the separation of powers, to the promise of turkey’s european path and especially to the rights and freedoms of people. we have never questioned the legitimacy of bringing to justice those who perpetrated a failed coup. however, the measures taken, including the arrest of eight doctors last week when they called for peace after turkish operations in afrin, show that actions taken are often entirely unrelated to the failed coup and are certainly disproportionate. even if the doctors have been released, another chilling message is sent that no one can assume freedom of expression, or freedom after expression. not only countless journalists are imprisoned, including ahmet şık and others from cumhuriyet, but also members of the parliamentary opposition, such as people’s democratic party (hdp) leader selahattin demirtas, and the head of amnesty international. additionally, more than 100 000 people have lost their jobs, wait endlessly in pre-trial detention and are de facto punished without trial. those who do stand trial cannot be sure that the procedures are fair. the arrest of osman kavala is a case in point. turkey is drifting further and further from anything that resembles a european dream. the council of europe’s venice commission assessed that the constitutional changes would ‘introduce a presidential regime which lacks the necessary checks and balances required to safeguard against becoming an authoritarian one’. well, interestingly and sadly, even without these constitutional changes in place, that is what we are witnessing. we are witnessing nato’s two largest armies opposing each other in afrin. i believe that we as europeans have to attach consequences to the de facto violation of the copenhagen criteria. while we cannot prevent president erdoğan and his akp party from leading his country off the cliff, we can at least ensure that we are credible about the basic principles of the eu.
mr president, in the interests of public support for the european union, it is essential that the eu becomes more democratic and more political, and breaks away from the old combination of legalistic bureaucracy and backroom deals. to be fair, the report under discussion has this in mind, but it is limited in its opportunities: it only addresses the british seats. should one really start a discussion on european democracy with the implementation of degressive proportionality or with the reserving of a handful of seats? i would say no. should one start a discussion on the consequences of brexit, keeping in mind that the uk is a net contributor, with a claim for more seats in the european parliament? i have to say no again. despite all good intentions, this report does not help us in the discussion on european democracy or on brexit. for the dutch delegation of socialists and democrats, the spitzenkandidat process is far more important. having said all that, i very much appreciate the efforts by the rapporteurs, ms hübner and mr pereira.
president. - mr president, inequalities in society have existed since the beginning of time. to some extent, inequality is good. because if there are no successful people, who are the role models for young people? and where should ambition be directed? but in the netherlands, for decades, there has been no growth in the purchasing power of families, according to research by rabobank. taxes have been raised for an ever-growing government, to pay for mass immigration and development aid and subsidies for anyone with a left-wing view, among other things, but also for the ever-increasing expenditure of the european union. because political ambitions are ultimately paid for by citizens as wage slaves. the euro is such a precious political ambition. the absence of exchange rates between countries has led to mass unemployment and a deterioration in public finances. thanks to the euro, there are now also countries where, instead of stagnation, incomes have actually fallen, namely in southern europe. millions of people from these countries have left for northern europe in search of work, in search of prospects which are no longer to be found there either. mr president, we cannot go on like this. what we need is: lower taxes and a higher labor income ratio. migration must be stopped and the euro dismantled. it's as simple as that.
madam president, we, the socialists and democrats, have found new, unexpected allies and i don’t mean here in the chamber. i mean that, if the international monetary fund and the european central bank are pleading for a pay rise for employees in europe, what more need we say? yet can we stay silent on the consequences of rising social and economic inequalities in europe? let us start on a positive note. the european economy is growing, unemployment rates are falling and most economic theorists are telling us the fairytale that people will benefit from growth. but unfortunately not everybody is getting a fair share of the pie. on the one hand, we see companies still focusing on the well—being of their shareholders while the pay gap between the top chiefs and the average worker remains startling, and most multinationals are also still dodging taxes. on the other hand, we see the working-class families in europe falling behind. being in work reduces the risk of poverty. that is, at least, the normal theory. how is it possible then in europe that the number of working poor is still growing and growing? i will repeat what our unexpected allies are saying, namely that a pay rise would be good for business, for jobs, for workers and therefore for the european economy: a pay rise which, in my view, cannot be achieved without strong trade unions and strong collective bargaining. that does not, of course, help to reduce child poverty. we should address that issue separately. but a pay rise is really necessary.
the european union has for decades believed in the unfettered operation of the market. we all know that the market is looking out for the shareholders. we also all know that the market wants to keep wages as low as possible. this leads to flexible jobs and poverty. because with a job you can't make ends meet, your kid goes to school hungry. in the netherlands, the food banks cannot meet the demand of 135 000 people. in rotterdam, at the market, i see people looking for the last leftovers after closing time. that is europe. that's the netherlands right now. if we continue to believe in a market that we don't regulate, then the exploitation continues, the shareholders have a good time, and most people - the 90% who don't own two-thirds of the wealth of the other 10% - are screwed. i want a social protocol that subjects the market to social rights and not a non-binding social pillar.
mr president, having listened to the proposal, i am of course very grateful that the minister for justice is here, and we are also very much looking forward to an exchange of views with the minister for justice in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but so far we have a procedure in this plenary that for this kind of debate we invite the prime minister. an invitation was sent to the prime minister; the prime minister, for reasons of her own, could not be here today; but i don’t think that we should change the rules, or indeed the traditions, on the spot. there will be a debate in the committee on civil liberties as well. it was agreed in the conference of presidents to invite the prime minister for today’s debate and to have the exchange of views with the minister for justice in the committee, and i suggest that we go ahead as was agreed in the conference of presidents.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am of the generation which has been marked by the events of the fall of the berlin wall and everything that happened afterwards. i can also remember the first time that we welcomed colleagues from bulgaria and romania in this chamber, and i was very, very moved. i don’t cry very often, i can tell you, but there were tears running down my cheeks. for me, this was reuniting the family. but in a family we also talk about things that aren’t going well. next year, romania will be holding the presidency of the european union, and we’ll all be looking at the image that romania presents. i know that romania has a long and proud tradition of liberal democracy and civic engagement, and i hope that that is the past that romania will choose because, unlike the previous speaker, i do think that values are a matter for the european union. this is what we have laid down in the treaties. romania has made a great deal of effort, achieved a lot and made very good progress in recent years, but now it seems to be waivering. i would really encourage the romanian government to follow the recommendations of the european commission and to invite the venice commission to judge the reform package – not just refer loosely to some recommendations but invite the venice commission. i also think it would be a good idea for a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) to travel to romania and talk to people and actually find out and understand what’s going on. on the reform of the judiciary, concerns have been expressed all around, and i really hope that the romanian government is going to take heed. finally, i would like to refer briefly to the new legislation on civil society. i find it very worrying. this is happening not just in romania or hungary and poland, but also in some other eu countries, and tonight we will be talking about the shrinking space for civil society. civil society may be a pain in the neck, but it is essential for a robust and healthy democracy. a democracy organises its own critics. that’s what democracy is all about. so please reconsider. finally – the last sentence – i would like to reiterate this: parliament decided a year and a half ago not to focus on just one country and then another but to install a mechanism – and i’m counting on the commission – that assesses all the member states.
mr president, today we are discussing the proposal to increase the budget for the external action guarantee fund. the financial management of the fund is also transferred to the commission. as far as my party is concerned, we will immediately stop this development aid. why does the european investment bank have dozens of branches in all kinds of exotic places? what are we looking for in bogota, dakar, nairobi and cairo? the eib is more like a travel agency than an investment bank. the plan is to increase the amount for which the european parliament is responsible by more than eur 5 billion. who's going to pay for that, chairman? not to mention the countries that will benefit most from the extra budget, countries like syria, iran and turkey, islamic dictatorships where not a penny of european tax money should go. turkey is the most successful country in this respect, not least because it does not meet the conditions set by the eib in terms of good governance, respect for human rights and freedom of the press. such a country does not deserve support and should be stripped of its status as a candidate country. the guarantee fund will now also cover commercial risks. speculating with taxpayer money. it's mean and it's disgusting. there is no conclusive evidence that the transfer of management to the commission is of any use. this is not my conclusion, but the opinion of the rapporteur of the committee on foreign affairs. at the moment, the costs and benefits are unknown. i would like to thank all the members who showed their true colors on monday. they voted against the request to move the votes by only one day in connection with the funeral of our esteemed colleague edouard ferrand. norms, values and solidarity, which are not enough in this parliament, were far from being found. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i want to thank mr hoyer. we have been discussing this but something we need to discuss is fossil-fuel lending by the european investment bank (eib). i know, mr hoyer, that you have your emissions performance standard of 550 g co2/kwh, which is taking out the lending to coal, but we need to talk about gas. what we see in europe is that we are binding ourselves to a new addiction to fossil fuels, and that is not part of the implementation of the paris agreement, whereas you said in your first reaction to the paris agreement that you would be leading in its implementation. well, lending to gas is not leading on implementation of the paris agreement, and let me just mention some numbers before you answer that such lending is needed for energy security. current european imports stand at 300 billion cubic meters of gas per year. the infrastructure is already in place for 600 billion cubic meters. if we count plans to be funded, it goes to the level of thousands – a tripling of current imports. that is locking ourselves into fossil! so can you please promise us that you will make sure the eib is going to eradicate fossil lending totally?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today we are finally discussing the shrinking space for civil society, but what we are really discussing is the shrinking space for democracy because, despite the passionate plea of my colleague just now for civil society, we also know that his government party is trying to shut up ngos that do not echo the views of the government. this is actually what presents a threat to democracy: it is not ngos that we disagree with but actually silencing parties that we disagree with. the commissioner rightly said that democracy is not about elections, but democracy is about checks and balances. that means that we should even have the courage to fund our own opposition if necessary. this is not just about shrinking space for civil society but also for media, opposition parties and so on. i have a couple of questions for the commission and the council. first of all, there have been proposals, as mentioned by colleague niedermüller, and i know mr boni is also arguing for it, that setting up eu funding for not just european ngos but also local ngos – what initiatives will the commission take? secondly, regarding the litigation fund that was adopted in the budget by parliament last year, i would really like to hear the commissioner confirm that it will be set up quickly and that it will actually be a litigation fund and not watered down to a kind of general ngo fund, as some people would like. thirdly, you started infringement procedures against hungary for laws that unduly restrict the space for civil society, but we know that the same problems exist in poland and that in other countries such laws are being considered. will you also start infringement procedures against poland? to the council: i very much welcome your words but they are of a very general nature. i would like to hear what the council will actually do to ensure – and i am coming to a conclusion – to put this on the agenda and discuss it. will you put on the agenda the situation in hungary, the situation in poland, the situation in romania? (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – that is a bit difficult in 30 seconds because of the wide range of measures that have been taken to harass and intimidate ngos, restrict their freedom of manoeuvre and registration requirements: the government, for example, giving priority to events organised by organisations that are friendly to the government at the expense of other ngos. need i go on? i think it is clear to everybody. i understand there are organisations – even organisations funded by this house – that are supportive of your views, and i very much disagree with them, but i prefer to argue with them and to debate with them rather than cutting off their funds as you are doing.
in writing. when i walk into parliament to vote, i realise that i can exercise my democratic right here thanks to aletta jacobs, emmeline pankhurst and others. it's their struggle that got me here. this week marks 100 years of women's suffrage in the uk, next year it will be the netherlands. women's suffrage didn't just happen overnight. it was a huge step. for example, married dutch women were not given legal capacity until 1956 and the eu introduced the law on equal treatment for men and women in the netherlands in 1980. in this parliament, only one third of the members are still women. the battle continues unabated! think of the women of the womens march. consider she decides, a campaign initiated by my party colleague ploumen for safe abortions, education and maternity care in poor countries. think of all the women who get up every day and shout: "i'm proud of myself, i can take on the whole world!" to them i say: "you're on top of your game! keep fighting!" we must express our support for the fight for women's rights within the eu. that is why i am calling on women in the netherlands to vote on 21 march. as emmeline pankhurst would say: "deeds, not words".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a poll today in the netherlands shows that 62% of the people want to get rid of the clock. millions of people suffer from the effects of clock changes twice a year. parents and children get headaches or feel very uncomfortable. i know people like that. family life is falling apart. families and businesses are inconvenienced by moving the clock forward or backward by an hour. also, think of traffic accidents and heart attacks shortly after the time change. why is the european union harassing its own citizens? it's a useless ritual and doesn't deliver the energy savings that were once the goal. the european commission should propose that we now stick to summertime or wintertime. we already have enough research, even from the winners of the nobel prize for medicine last year and the study service of our own parliament. angry citizens have already handed me tens of thousands of signatures. in other countries there are action committees and in the council there is support from poland, finland, estonia and many more countries. what are we waiting for? the european union is not just for big companies and big countries, is it? we're also here for the mothers, children and the elderly who are out of rhythm with this weird ritual. i talked to some people at microsoft. they say it's very easy to adjust computer systems all year round. mr president, we have been talking about this for three or four years. this looks like a crown jewel of frans timmermans: "better regulation" is the answer. the european commission can very easily simplify the lives of 500 million citizens in europe, and we must seize this opportunity. we really don't need any more time-consuming and expensive research for that.
madam president, despite a russian signature on human rights agreements, in practice violations are rampant and the perpetrators often go unpunished. such violations may well be condoned or sanctioned from very high up. the arrest of oyub titiev of memorial, which is, indeed, a well-respected sakharov prize winner and the last independent ngo operating in chechnya, is a case in point. new laws throughout russia target ngos and restrict free speech and freedom of assembly. on top of that, the targeted abuse of the rights of lgbti people is of particular concern for our group. we call for titiev’s unconditional release, as well as the release of all political prisoners. russia needs to reverse its course towards its people, their ngos and their opposition representatives. for the eu, too, it is important to take responsibility, to follow the money and, at least, to shelter those who need our protection most.
indian. mr president, the previous speaker spoke of a transition to democracy in egypt. that is not how i would describe the situation in that country. the president, who came to power in a coup, has killed at least 23 people in the last few months. the death penalty is something that we in europe have been opposing for a very long time. we also remind each country every time people are killed from within institutions. that's the case here. and that's right before the elections, which is not really a serious choice, because you can only vote for mr sisi or a friend of mr sisi. the question from the greens is: why has vice-president mogherini not condemned this murder by the sisi government? we're always in the front. not this time, no. the european commission must now clarify this.
author. – madam president, the repression in egypt under general sisi creates a ticking time bomb. has no one learned from history? on top of stifling dissent, free speech and restricting ngos, a shocking number of executions – over 2 000 sentenced since 2014 and at least 81 executions carried out – comes on top of these systematic repressions. the circumstances for those facing trial include torture, forced confessions and ill treatment. yes, egypt faces security challenges from terrorism, but the answer is never state terror. it is high time that the high representative as well as member state leaders speak out and unequivocally condemn these abuses. the silence in fact is deafening. it is interesting to talk about a partnership, but we have to be realistic. if this partnership is not founded on principles that we share, minimum principles and values, then we have to wonder what the added value is, and i think we have to be crystal clear as the eu.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, mr president. on the 20th of this month we read in the eu observer that there is a letter, and we have seen it, from vice-president katainen in which he says that he met mr barroso, former president of the commission, on 25 october last year in a hotel near the commission, and that the meeting was supposed to have been about trade and defence. now mr barroso had a problem when he left the commission and went to work for goldman sachs. the ad hoc committee, the commission's ethics committee, has said: we can live with it because mr barroso has solemnly promised never to lobby goldman sachs in the european institutions. we would now like to put this item on the agenda to find out exactly what happened. is there any lobbying by mr barroso for goldman sachs or not? and what exactly was the content of the conversation? my group's preference is to add it to the agenda for this afternoon. if this is problematic because of the rush, we can also accept an addition to the agenda of, say, the march i part-session in strasbourg, but we would prefer to discuss it this afternoon.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we keep hearing that there is no military solution to the war in syria, but in fact we are all witnessing it. it is not a solution, but it is a reality that cannot be denied. four hundred thousand civilians are trapped in eastern ghouta. they are starving and they are being bombed by syrian and russian forces, despite the un ceasefire. ghouta was a so-called de-escalation zone for those besieged in aleppo, idlib and other areas of the country in the past, but instead, the moving of people into one area seems to have put a target on their head, and the world, the eu, cannot stand by. we are also seeing the use of chemical weapons again, but what are we doing? after endless vetoes, last week we saw russia stalling the un security council resolution for other criteria that it wanted. clearly putin only plays by his own cynical rules: together with iran, it had forced an exception which allows for so-called terrorists to be targeted, despite the ceasefire. in reality that means that women, children, hospitals and schools are now accused of being terrorists, or harbouring them. this cruelty must stop. there must be, and there will be, consequences for assad, putin and khamenei for what they are doing. we must do more as europeans to reach a political solution negotiated under un auspices. accountability for the brutality should be our key priority. there cannot be peace without justice. but now, first and foremost, we have to actively push for guarantees that make sure humanitarian aid reaches those in need. the eu, as the biggest donor of humanitarian and development aid, must look into the terrible cases of sexual abuse of the most vulnerable refugees by aid organisation workers that are supposed to help them and not attack them. it is an absolute scandal, which we must seek an investigation into. frankly, it is time, after the nth debate we are now having, to stop repeating empty phrases. we must take a more active and stronger political role for the eu and prioritise peace, accountability and safety for those on the run from the horrendous violence and sexual attacks that we are witnessing today. (applause)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the new multiannual budget is coming and the commission wants more eu, more money for migration, more money for enlargement, more money for its own army. but now that britain is leaving the eu, there's less money, much less: between 14 and 25 billion euros per year. most member states, we heard on friday, are not prepared to pay more. and so mr verhofstadt is calling, the alde group is calling for direct eu taxation. that solves the problem. it is not reflected in the national budget, but the citizen pays for it. the other euro-friendly parties here join this. the civilian's down again. the people are paying for this failed project. i tell you: the eu should not spend more, but less. the budget should not be increased, but reduced. the citizen should not pay more, but less. so the priorities are clear: i am not saying that the european union should be given new tasks, but less eu, no direct taxes, but less eu remit, and preferably not enlargement of the eu, but abolition.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after all this, first of all, i would like to echo the wonderful statement made by roberta metsola, every word of it. the alde group very much welcomes the decision by the european commission to trigger article 7.1 in the case of poland. since the last time we discussed this, unfortunately, further worrying developments have taken place, like the controversial holocaust law and the new initiatives on a full ban on abortion, and it escapes me how these measures are solving the problems that you have mentioned, mr legutko. we call on the council to act swiftly as well because with every day that passes, democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are damaged further. so, no further delays. this is about the moral authority of the european union in the world. people are watching us and asking themselves, ‘will the eu rise in defence of its own values?’ the commission has set the deadline of 28 march, but in the meantime i would like to know what the consequences are for police and justice cooperation if the polish judiciary cannot be considered to be independent – member state authorities must work together on the basis of the presumption of compliance and not the pretence of compliance. all member states have to be treated equally, and yes, we’re criticising poland, but applying double standards undermines the credibility of the european community of values. in this respect, dear colleague weber, i would really like to ask you, why is it that you were highly critical of poland but you’re still protecting viktor orban? viktor orban, the man of the dirty anti-semitic, anti-soros, anti-brussels and anti-migrants campaigns. i think the epp has to choose where it stands. finally, it is high time for us to get a neutral objective mechanism for upholding the values of the european union. this house put forward a legislative initiative in 2016. we urge the commission to present their announced proposal for such a mechanism as soon as possible and not wait until the end of the year. (applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, thank you, and thanks also to the vice-president for being here. i am very happy that we are talking about transparency and we share the interest of the commission in transparency, but i must say that the more i listen to the vice-president, the more confused i get. you enter into the register, rightfully so, that you meet a lobbyist. that is also the policy of the commission, that mr barroso is treated only as a lobbyist, not as a friend, not as a beer drinker, nothing like that: just a lobbyist. then you say, ‘but we had a chat, and of course this wasn’t about goldman sachs; i wrote down in the register goldman sachs, but it wasn’t about goldman sachs, it was about a university background, trade and defence and the european union’. this is all very contradictory. i really think that we, as parliament, deserve to know exactly whether he was there in his capacity as a lobbyist for goldman sachs, because then we would also have a problem with the commission. the ad hoc committee – the ethical committee – made very clear that his commitment not to lobby for goldman sachs with people like you was important for the committee when taking the decision not to take sanctions against mr barroso. so i think we need far more clarity than you have given, and at this hour it is quite normal that the people who are spokespersons for their groups are here, but not the entire parliament.
thank you, mr president. promises are not enough. the cayman islands have no corporate tax system and yet they promise better. bermuda was once named the world's worst tax haven, and it's showing promise. why should we believe them? why should we believe these eight? more so because the shady list of shady tax havens was drawn up by a shady code of conduct group. what we ask is simple: what improvements are to be made and what are the penalties if these improvements are not made? simple but very important. money knows no bounds, literally and figuratively. the union must force tax havens to change or it will have to exclude them. there are limits. and that applies to countries within the union. the same criteria apply to malta, ireland, the netherlands and luxembourg. they're tax havens, too. let's not make it more fun for those tax havens, but let's make it easier: set clear boundaries between you and your child. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – there was a time when great britain thought about the global economic order and was an active participant. i am not sure what happened to your beautiful country, but it has turned inward and is not concerned at all with the global economic order. i think europe is an economic superpower and should use this power in a political way, to push tax havens in the right direction and to make sure that everyone pays their fair share, including large corporates and the very rich.
i thank you, mr president. i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr sander loones, for his report in our common language. i will turn to english as i have put away my prepared short intervention, and i would like to take up some words that we heard from the commissioner, which are of course well appreciated. he mentioned that the two pillars of the banking union are working well and they are, but not fully. i do think that the situation that has come to light, for example in latvia brought to our attention by us rather than european supervision shows that there are also still some blind spots in the first and second pillars. i am not mentioning this to be difficult; i am mentioning this because i know it makes the work on the third pillar more difficult. you have heard from colleagues how controversial the european deposit insurance scheme (edis) proposal is. there is a will to progress, i think, among many in this house, and i welcome in that regard the commission communication that we saw at the end of last year, and also the words of the commission on the initiatives that we can expect on non-performing loans (npls) and exposure to sovereigns. i think these are key, especially if at some point we want to move edis beyond liquidity support only. but i believe that progress, especially in these two fields, needs to be measurable, proven and concrete, not only on the flow, but also on the stocks, or npls. so there's quite a lot of work ahead of us. the spirit is positive and i thank the commission for that, but it will, i am afraid, take time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 1628)
blue-card answer. – it is always a pleasure to get a blue card from your own group. without going into the detail of the edis proposal and the implications for certain member states and smaller banks, what is clear is that the resolution cases that we have seen taking place in europe have not all followed the ideal model that we foresaw when we put the legislation into place. that just proves my point that there are still some blind spots in the way that the legislation was meant to be. but i can reassure, in some regards, the colleague from austria that we are, of course – also in working on the edis proposal – aware that the legislation that we make should suit big banks, but also the smaller ones and the particular cases that we have seen in the case of einlagensicherung in germany and in austria.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. according to the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, there are more than 50 000 radicalised muslims in europe. yet the word islam appears exactly zero times in the report, zero times. what this parliament is doing is nothing more than a drop in the bucket. the title of that report is good. the content is completely inadequate. there is talk of nonsensical terms like islamophobia and so-called attacks on muslims. this is while islamists are responsible for 99 percent of all terrorist murders in 2015 and 95 percent of all terrorist murders in 2016. president. - that is not my data, mr president, that is europol's data. critics are branded as islamophobic, while the real cause, islam, is not named. it's the world upside down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. mr president, until the 1960s it was common practice in the netherlands for women to stop working when they married. married women were even incapable of action. my own mother had to believe it too: when she got married, she couldn't stand in front of the class. these days, this is no longer the norm, or the law. yet we are still reaping the bitter fruits of that time. mr. speaker, we are living in 2018, and yet i am here calling for an end to inequality for women. the numbers don't lie. in the netherlands alone, the gender income gap is as high as 16.1%. the pension gap is even greater, at a shameful 44.9%. we are among the poor mid-engineers, with a european average of 39%. i am in favour of equal pay for equal work here in europe. this is not just true of eastern and western europe, but also of men and women. men and women have the right to equal pay for equal work and, therefore, to equal pensions. this is how you empower women, by being financially independent. close the retirement gap. the netherlands and europe can do so much better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems to me extremely important that parliament should show that we are taking this seriously, that we are launching an inquiry and that we are instructing the committee on budgetary control to report to the april plenary on the basis of such an inquiry. so a short resolution in which we formulate the mandate of the inquiry and put parliament to work.
i would like to make a brief comment on what has just been said. it is the responsibility of this parliament to monitor the commission's integrity policy at all times. we do it every year. so those arguments seem to me to be completely invalid. i note that we all agree that there should be an inquiry by the committee on budgetary control. the way in which we make that request - to the chairman of the committee on budgetary control or by resolution - is of less importance to me than the fact that the request is made in black and white on your behalf.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. i think it is our responsibility to those victims, to the underage children, to the helpless women, but also to those who will need help in the future and last but not least to the taxpayers in our member states who make all this possible with their hard-earned money. so i ask for your support to talk about this, to have a serious debate about this, and that debate is called "eu development aid and the abuse of ngos".
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner oettinger has, quite frankly, just made matters a lot worse, coming here and taking meps for stupid. telling us about the wonderful new clothes of the emperor and expecting us to believe it is a stupid strategy, and it just underlines the point that i want to make here today. today’s debate is not about staff policy; it is about the total lack of political judgment of this commission and that also applies to the absence of mr juncker, who likes to talk about his political commission, but politics also means political accountability. he should be here to be held accountable for a political decision. i am left completely speechless at the scene of 28 powerful politicians, selected for the political leadership of this continent but led by the nose by a civil servant. the political commission of mr juncker sheepishly signing on the dotted line. yes, commissioner oettinger, that is what you’ve been doing. if the commissioners are so easily intimidated by a civil servant, if they act like helpless children when confronted with an unexpected staff decision, then how can we expect them to stand up for the european interests against trump, for example, in a trade war, or resist pressures from powerful lobbies, or be firm with national governments that violate eu rules? maybe that part of the house could have the courtesy to hear me out… (speaker is pointing to the right)selmayrgate destroys all the credibility of the european union as a champion of integrity and transparency in public administration. at a time when public trust in the european project is low, this is devastating, commissioner oettinger, and the fact that the commission has remained deaf to date to criticism shows how disconnected it is from reality. in conclusion, the commission will have to choose what is more important: the career of mr selmayr or the credibility of the european union. the appointment of mr selmayr was a grave error and it must be corrected, and that is a precondition for our continued support for this commission.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. president. - i must say that i am very disappointed with the information which mr oettinger has just given us in a few minutes. we are being treated here as children, like the journalists, as representatives of the people, complaining about something that has been known for a long time, namely that the commission is doing everything right, that the recruitment procedures are fantastic and that everything is secret and stinks around the appointment of mr selmayr. we want to know exactly, step by step: how did the first appointment as deputy secretary general go? how did the second appointment as secretary general go? how could commissioner thyssen have been surprised by the proposal for mr selmayr as secretary-general? and don't treat us like little children, because we won't accept that! the same thing happened on 28 february when vice-president katainen said that he would tell us what friendship is when he went to have a beer with barroso. after all, it had nothing to do with goldman sachs. barroso was not a lobbyist at all, but he did note in the register that he had lunch with goldman sachs or had a drink. what's the real story? has barroso not kept his agreements with the ad hoc ethics committee that he would no longer lobby for goldman sachs? in that case, measures must be taken against barroso. two cases of integrity, and that is why we have put the issue of integrity policy on the agenda here. we don't want to be treated like children. i have to say that i was thinking a lot this weekend about what happened in 1999 with the santer commission. there was also a problem of integrity with madame cresson and there was arrogance at the beginning. because, yes, what are you guys getting involved in? what's going on? what's going on? it was covered up. and you know the fate of the santer commission. my group is prepared to table a motion of censure against the juncker commission if this arrogant attitude continues. we want all the facts on the table in the inquiry which the committee on budgetary control is about to launch!
i am shocked, mr president, but not by the appointment procedure of mr selmayr. i am shocked by the mistrust i feel towards mr juncker here. for, mr president, do we not know mr juncker as a man of integrity through and through, a humble, no, a submissive manager, who completely disregards himself and sacrifices himself for the european citizen? and it is he, the example for many world leaders, who is being tarnished here. and, mr president, i cannot allow that. i can't allow that. i call for immediate action. my proposal, mr president, is to cancel next year's elections, the european elections, and to give mr juncker the power to elect and appoint the members of this parliament in his personal capacity.
president, brussels has a negative connotation for many european citizens, a connotation of cronyism and taking care of yourself. that is exactly what commission president juncker has done. put selmayr's friend in the front row and take good care of him. after 60 years of the european union, little seems to have changed. heinrich heine was right: "it's an old story, but it's always new". juncker is always there to accuse member states and others of shirking responsibility and not being transparent. he is doing the same thing now, hiding behind spokesmen who declare that everything was done with religious correctness. you've got to have the guts! the overwhelmingly simplistic reply of commissioner oettinger now shows that the commission lacks any political antenna. and mr selmayr is now "burned brussels praise" and everyone knows that is not digestible. a new procedure is being opened today to replace mr italianer. only in this way can the damage and disgrace of this new case of brussels' friendship be reduced a little bit.
i think it is quite clear from all the questions raised so far that your first intervention was a complete failure. it was a formalistic answer, pretending to follow the letter of the law. but you also know: you have rules that you have to follow by the letter or you have to follow by the spirit. and that's what this issue is about. it's about transparency. it's about credibility. it is about fair procedures, something the commission says it stands for. so you can use your second answer to avenge your weak performance in the first phase. you can then state yourself where you think the rules should be changed so that we do not have to go through a flash procedure like this again and that we have an open, fair, transparent procedure so that we have confidence in the appointments of officials of the european commission. that trust is incredibly important, and it's a shame that you seem to need rules to keep it. but it is now up to you to make clear where you think the procedure should be improved, otherwise you are really not worth a pinch of the nose.
president, commissioners, there are days when i am ashamed to be a member of the european parliament. and i have to say: this is one of those days. and that is not because i think that we our support services or the commission services are not doing a very useful job of dealing with issues of interest to european citizens in a good way. but when i look at the picture of europe, the picture of europe today is: europe is a back room, a place with vague names. and there is also a whole issue of shady promises to commissioners on the table without that being discussed here in parliament today. so i am glad that there is an inquiry, because i would like to be proud of the work i do here and not be ashamed of the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. last week a british report came out that all the regions in the united kingdom are going to be hit by brexit. but other economies are going to be hit as well. the dutch economy will probably be costing billions. and the german bdi made it clear last week that a hard brexit might cost as much as 9 billion extra. fortunately, i can see from the document recently published by mr tusk that the european union is keen to maintain the status quo in a number of areas. i am thinking, for example, of fisheries, aviation, erasmus, security and trade in goods. that's the right direction. let our negotiators also go for reason and fairness. we must not put the knife to each other's throats, because beyond 2019 our fishermen must be able to continue fishing, our companies must be able to continue exporting and importing, and our students must also be able to continue studying across the border. so if, unfortunately, it is true that brexit is bound to happen, then not a hard brexit, but a brexit in which a reasonable divorce is made on the basis of common sense.
madam president, the eu should stop its warmongering between ireland and the uk when it comes to the border with northern ireland. the irish and the british will work it out together as they did before and you very well know that anything the eu touches becomes a filthy mess. therefore, mr juncker, back off and start working on a decent trade deal. a deal without trade with the uk and your already failed project will certainly go bankrupt. so make a deal without protectionism, a deal without tariff barriers, without eu jurisdiction, without full eu rights for eu citizens in the uk, a deal without free movement of people, a deal that fully respects the absolute sovereignty of the united kingdom. get on with it or be gone.
madam president, in recent months, mr juncker, mr tusk and mr barnier have sounded more and more like the spice girls – please, uk, tell us what you want, what you really, really want – because it has been 627 days since the referendum and we have mostly heard from the uk about what they do not want. somehow, a very narrow referendum result has led to a blueprint for a hard brexit, where the uk cannot stay in the single market, cannot stay in the customs union, cannot have a customs union and cannot have a norway- or a canada-style deal. ms may wants to take back control of laws, money and borders, but at the same time, she speaks of the most comprehensive trade deal ever with frictionless trade and no border in ireland. where is the sense of reality? her speech last week was an opportunity, after two years, to provide and to paint a realistic picture. instead ms may again limited herself to empty slogans, carefully drafted to hold together a divided cabinet and a divided tory party, still desperately trying to present brexit as a win-win situation while asking for many more cakes to have and eat and many more cherries to pick. i am glad that this house today states that that is a completely unacceptable position. it is time for ms may to stop confusing the brexit negotiations with conservative party management and to start developing a credible and serious negotiating position. let’s get on with that.
mr president, we often talk about brexit as a technical fact, but i want to emphasize once again: it's about people and the consequences for those same people. after ttip, we agreed that trade agreements should never lead to a dilution of eu norms and standards. so the future trade agreement with the british is also a matter for consideration. so, good enforcement of food safety and environmental standards, for example. we also want guarantees that the uk will not develop into a trading partner that undermines our social standards and encourages fiscal dumping. otherwise, it is the european workers who will be the victims of their political decisions. in ceta we agreed to seek higher standards through regulatory cooperation. only if the british also go along with this can it lead to a lasting and fruitful trade relationship.
madam president, time is running out. the uk government is encouraged and, actually, urged to make and articulate choices on the future trade relations. political promises cannot remain vague and contradictory forever. for us, a level playing field is essential. we should not make concessions when it comes to high standards or compromises on the unity of our single market, but it is time for a reality check in london: special trade privileges are only negotiable when the united kingdom also accepts overarching rules and standards. yet the uk’s many red lines only lead to one thing: there will be hurdles and friction when it comes to trade, and that negatively impacts citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, many other companies. a solid future relation does not magically emerge on the basis of speeches. i therefore urge prime minister may to come up with a realistic proposal about the trade relations she does want for her country after brexit in relation to the european union.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway on trade in textile products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). that pillar is slowly starting to take shape, but we need to pick up the pace. the commission's proposal for a european labour inspectorate is being presented today, but the social security number announced earlier has already been dropped. the european labour inspectorate is a step in the right direction, a step towards a decent and fair european labour market, by tackling exploitation and unfair competition between workers and unfair competition between companies at european level. the proposal also gives europe teeth to bite when it comes to cross-border crimes. but, mr president, if the heads of government really want a social europe, they must act now. we want to see action, not just words.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the opinion of the committee on international trade is mainly concerned with own resources. the own resources in international trade are often somewhat unpredictable, since levies and trade protection instruments do not always lead to structural costs. tariffs - look at the american problems at the moment - are not popular in international trade and we have to take this into account. we also ask the commissioner and the commission to ensure that customs duties are effectively controlled and collected. we have a structural own resource that we can use. i wish him every success in the further procedure on this very important matter.
madam president, i really fear the outcome that you can already see being sketched. coming from the netherlands, i have a prime minister who is saying ‘oh yes, i want to make the budget future—oriented, but mainly there needs to be less money’. what i feel here is that people are saying ‘yes, we want to make the budget future—oriented but maintain the policies on the two big spending blocks, on agriculture and cohesion.’ i can tell you what will come out of those negotiations: it will be less money but maintaining the same old policies that we have right now. then all the people that are critical of the eu will have a free—for—all day to criticise that outcome. therefore, i also plead to this house to focus on what it wants on the contents. focus on modernisation, on really making the eu budget future-oriented, on really making agriculture green and on making it deliver sustainable food. look at the infrastructure to really connect us europeans, really go for innovation, really fight youth unemployment. then we can talk about future-oriented policies: otherwise, it will be less of the same.
the general line of the proposals is that the multiannual budget should be increased substantially because of brexit, high ambitions and shady deals with turkey, libya and staff. this means that the member states will have to pay more. to avoid the netherlands being the victim of this, i have tabled the following amendments. the net contributors are called upon not to pay more in euros than they do now. the current annual delivery rebate for the netherlands should be maintained. my party's position is clear: the netherlands should not pay more, but much less, for the failed eu project. if prime minister rutte has the balls, he will finally use his veto to torpedo this multiannual budget. finally, mr president, i must say that it is scandalous how juncker has thrown up his civil servant selmayr. we are convinced that this commission should be sent home as soon as possible. the multiannual budget can also be thrown straight to the trash.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't get me wrong. i am a strong supporter of a strong european union and i believe that we must invest in order to remain so in the future. what i am against is the automatic reflex of this parliament to say that we need more money without looking at where there is scope for cutbacks. it is very clear to every household, to every company and also to national parliaments that they have to make choices. if we want to spend more money somewhere else, we have to look somewhere else to get the money. i regret that we say here in this parliament that we must keep things as they are and that we need fresh money. and not a little bit, no, but a whopping 30%. where is the debate about whether in this changing world we should not also modernise our policies and be critical of how we spend european money?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have seen hospitals – in aleppo, idlib, damascus – being bombed, and bombed again soon after, to target aid workers like the white helmets. and again, we have seen children choke on sarin and mustard gas. and again, people reduced to red lines crossed. and again we hear how these people were actually terrorists and therefore legitimate targets for assad, putin and iran’s revolutionary guards. and again, we hear there is no military solution as bombs create realities on the ground. and again, vetoes for un security council resolutions. and again, a blank statement from the un out of words. and again, vital aid convoys blocked and robbed. and again...high representative mogherini and colleagues, are you not also getting sick of this debate again and again and again? the toxic, cynical and bloody cycle that is the war in syria must stop. it is not too late for us in the eu to play a more effective and meaningful role towards peace, justice and accountability for syrians.
i would like to thank you, mr president, mrs mogherini, for your attention to three important military developments on the syrian battlefield and for your views on them. first, sources i consult in the region itself informed me that the cessation of the fight against isis is happening now because the syrian kurds have left for afrin, a result of the turkish military operation there. it's a bad thing for european security if the fight against isis dries up, so it's not happening at the moment. and then secondly, you have good connections with tehran, with iran. the construction of a complete military infrastructure in the syrian golan is of course a great danger of a regional war in which the neighbouring countries of lebanon, syria, israel and, of course, jordan will be dragged into it. do you talk about it in tehran? that's a lot of risk. you acknowledge the seriousness? and then thirdly, idlib, which is the largest concentration of jihadists at the moment. turkey is cooperating. how do you feel about that? that is also a huge danger to our security in europe.
i have spoken to a number of people from my own country, the netherlands, who have been coming here every year for many years. and what i've heard about and this is not about democracy, mrs valenciano, this is about elementary things: food shortages, no possibility of accepting direct foreign aid because the state blocks it. it is simply - i heard it from many mouths yesterday - a distressing situation. where's the foreign aid money? is it being invested in tourism? meanwhile, the population is suffering and in need. an industrial bakery in the port city of cienfuegos is not allowed because the state blocks it. i am very much troubled by the mention of the 'cuban friends' because such friends are merciless towards their own people. and that's not to mention the more than 300 arbitrary arrests that have taken place in the past month: 347 is right. this morning, a cuban expert asked me, "what exactly does the eu do about human rights?" he was really appalled by the eu's silence. mrs. valenciano, i was wondering if you... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. say what you think and do what you say. not words, but actions. europe can learn from the rotterdam mentality and can use a little bit of rotterdam. when we make agreements, we have to keep them. if we have a problem together, we should not talk about it endlessly but resolve it together. it's the only way we're stronger. only then will we really help europe to move forward. i believe that the principle of 'agreement is agreement' should also apply to the economic policy of the european union. because economics is also about trust. to avoid another crisis, member states need to reform so that their economies are very resilient, even when things go wrong. they need to put their shit behind them and prepare for the future. let us above all keep these agreements we have made. we'll pull each other up instead of down. i am convinced that this is the way forward for europe. then, as far as i am concerned, there is no need for a budget of our own for the euro zone or for any further transfer of powers to brussels. the primary responsibility must lie where it belongs, and that is with the member states. if the member states reform their economies, we will all benefit. and that is exactly what people in europe expect, and that is what people expect from me.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bayet, for his great work in trying to get parliament together on a european semester report, which is not always very easy. i think we managed to do very well, and i would like to thank him for that also – although he is now very much occupied, of course, but that is all right! on the plus side, what the report very clearly states is that there is more room for public investment. what is also a very important message to the member states is that we really have to take the public investments agenda seriously now. also, if you look at the pillar of social rights and the implementation of that, i think the report has some good recommendations, equally that the reforms should be socially and environmentally just and also with the implementation of the paris agreement. where the report is a bit weaker is on the reform of the stability and growth pact, where we really know that reform is still very much needed. also, on tax avoidance and the fight that europe has to lead there, the report should be strengthened. on the annual anti-corruption report, i think the commission should really take its responsibility to fight corruption within europe. we tabled some amendments, and with that we can have a very good report adopted.
mr president, if it were up to me, the annual growth survey would be called the sustainable growth survey, because that is what we should be aiming for – not just any growth, but sustainable, inclusive growth: growth that benefits not just the top, but also those at the bottom. growth based on quality jobs, not on precarious jobs which will pay the rent but harm the soul. i am an optimist by nature, but in my view the picture painted in the eight years is overly optimistic. doing better does not yet mean doing well when it comes to poverty precariousness and inequality, and i am sure that the pensioners in greece and the young graduates in spain will know what i am talking about, as will the romanian truck drivers and the workers in the bulgarian garment sector. our internal market has brought some benefits, but also a huge number of disadvantages. we need european social policy to counterbalance this, which is why i am glad that today the commission presented a recommendation on access to social protection. this is a first step towards the social sustainable europe that i have in mind, but more is needed: we need binding social floors in our member states which guarantee social protection for all, and don’t just aim for it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, trade rules and negotiations are complex. we saw this during years of negotiating the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), negotiations that are stalled after a dramatic change in the american approach. normally trade arrangements are certainly not the kind of topic to be shaped in a number of angry tweets one morning – tweets that sent stock markets plummeting and gary cohn resigning. we condemn the harsh accusations in the eu’s direction and frankly are puzzled by what we see. adding insult to injury, the president’s tweets now also speculate about imposing tariffs on european cars and other accusations. for a country that exports so many german cars, this is at least a bad business proposition. many jobs are created in the us by european companies and vice versa. we don’t live in a zero-sum world but we are actually mutually dependent. senior officials have suggested national security is the reason to impose broad steel and aluminium tariffs also in europe, and as allies we believe these arguments are misguided and not justified. the same goes for the notion that individual member states may negotiate exemptions. american hints at undermining the eu as well as british hints at being open to special treatment can only be read as being made in bad faith and must be challenged, where the british governments will find out soon, if necessary, what the benefits of a common approach globally in the eu are (or were, in their case). for decades the us and the eu have worked together to craft a rules-based system: rules for human rights, war and peace, and also trade. does that mean that the system or the world trade organisation (wto) is perfect? not at all. but does history suggest that our citizens benefit from shaping globalisation, from being rule makers instead of rule takers? absolutely. that is precisely what makes the soundbites of the current us administration so disturbing. right at the time we need to work together as the liberal democracies of this world to curb unfair trade practices of china and others, we are divided. as vice-president of the transatlantic legislators dialogue, i look to members of congress in particular for their leadership and solid affirmation of the transatlantic relation. we do not need a trade war and will do what we can to stop it. the commission has my group’s full support as well. but we are ready to adapt proportionate and wto-compliance countermeasures when it’s necessary.
i would like to take you, mr president, to the town of ijmuiden on the north sea, where 9 000 people are employed in the production of 7 million tonnes of steel. because they are the subject of this debate, and the difference between being right and being right. because of course we're right. no one can explain to us - and it is not true - that european steel and aluminium in deodorant cans and cans in america would pose a threat to national security. of course it's not. but whether we get it right is the question. especially now that there's someone in the white house who's ignoring international rules and agreements. by the way, if that boot is from his daughter ivanka's shoe collection, it's probably made in china. there's the hypocrisy of the trump family. but to be right, we will have to act as the european union. of course, it is proportionate, because no one likes escalation, but it is clear. that means two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's markets are not flooded with new products, and that the real problem of overproduction and dumping from china is tackled. not to get right, but for those people in ijmuiden and other places in europe whose jobs depend on it.
in writing. friends seem to become enemies. president trump and president juncker of the european commission are in a stranglehold as they continue and expand their protectionist trade measures. we must therefore do everything we can, both here in the eu and in the us, to avoid a trade war. the us and the eu need to work together to tackle the real problems associated with trade. i have been opposing the dumping of steel by countries like china for years. i'm concerned about strategic takeovers by foreign powers. i have long advocated the inclusion of both social and environmental standards in trade agreements. i would therefore like to say to the gentlemen: keep your head down, don't retreat behind your own dicks, and work together.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, there will be no future for europe as we know it, because there is no past or future in islam. every reminder of a non-islamic past will be destroyed, every possibility of a non-islamic future will be killed. the future of europe will be the caliphate. but first, europe will be torn apart by religious and ideological wars, and that is the warning we get from almost every ex—muslim who dares to speak out, who dares to speak out. because ex—muslims are murdered everywhere. that is the future of europe, unless european countries start a programme of de-islamising now. (murmurs of dissent) the eu is not useless. the eu is not just an obstacle to fight this terrible threat. no. the eu itself is the threat to the future of europe. it embraced the globalist agenda of self—destruction of european culture and the agenda of replacing the european people by people from islamic countries. it opened its borders and spent billions to invite millions of uneducated people from a backward culture that will launch europe straight back into the middle ages. islam means gender inequality, polygamy, child marriage, slavery and honour killings. it means death for unbelievers. it means absolute power to a political and religious elite. the future of europe must be a future of revolt against the eu, against the globalist agenda, against islamisation. it must be a future for our cultural heritage, for our national identity, for our national sovereignty, or there will be no future at all. therefore, i welcome the victory of the eurosceptic parties in italy. i welcome the stubborn resistance of viktor orbán, who fights the disruptive agenda at source. i welcome the courage of the visegrad group in fighting the madness of merkel’s open-border policy. patriots fight together for the future of europe, for the future of our children, and we will prevail.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. the dutch house of representatives therefore asked the dutch government last year to improve the security of the internet of things. i immediately asked the european commission whether such a unilateral but sensible measure could be taken in this way. and then: that doesn't surprise you, so it can't. it has to be european. the commission wants to prevent hacking by further censoring internet platforms and by creating a european agency full of civil servants. this, mr president, is brussels at its feet. it does not matter how expensive or bad a solution is, as long as it is european. it is wrong, mr president, that the member states cannot take measures on their own. in this area too, member states can act better, faster and more alertly than brussels. maybe we can preserve some internet freedom.
president. - last week rob wainwright, the outgoing director of europol, was a guest for the last time in our committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i asked him what he considered to be the highest priority for european security policy in the years to come. he said without hesitation: cybersecurity. without a second thought. more than half of the people in this world are connected to the internet today. and the number of devices that are connected to the internet, that are connected, is only going to increase. where you used to only have your computer and an annoying dial-up modem to connect to the internet, now our coffee makers, our thermostats and our toothbrushes are connected. we don't go online anymore, but we're online all the time. that's great for the ease of use that goes with it, but it's also vulnerable. we saw that, too. ddos attacks, hacks to steal company data, selling drugs and other illicit substances on the dark web, cyber attacks on critical infrastructure. one thing is clear: cybercriminals don't let themselves be bound by borders. so an efficient approach cannot afford to do that. the directive on the security of network and information systems was an important step towards making the eu more resilient. strengthening enisa and developing the quality label are important steps, but they are not enough. over a hundred countries now have the capability to conduct digital espionage, and their professionalism is growing. my question to the commission is: how are we going to arm ourselves against that in the coming years?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last week the delegation stood at the house where ján kuciak and martina kušnírová lived and, as claude moraes already said, it was an emotional moment and it also gave a very strong sense of purpose to the work of the delegation, because ján wrote about corruption, fraud and organised crime and possible connections with government circles. was he killed because of his work? because exposing wrongdoing is likely to get some very powerful people really upset, maybe even upset to kill for. just months earlier, daphne caruana galizia was also killed. two journalists killed in the european union because they did their job: scrutinising those in power. those killings are an attack on democracy, and it doesn’t just affect maltese or slovakian democracy but it affects the european union as a whole. we saw a kind of double reality in slovakia. on the one hand, the legislative framework is solid. the basic democratic institutional structures are in place, and media and civil society are vibrant and critical. on the other hand, there is a parallel reality of corruption, fraud, state capture and organised international crime. in this shady world it’s very difficult to distinguish between truth, half truths, lies and imagination. this uncertainty creates a climate of deep distrust and frustration of citizens with the public institutions. it’s therefore crucial that the murder investigation is independent. i strongly advocate the full involvement of europol – and not just to provide technical expertise, but with full access to the files. then, commissioner, i hear what you’re saying, i’ve heard it before: the european commission has very little powers to intervene. well, i disagree with that. we have discussed it often. but this would finally be the opportunity to put forward a legislative proposal for a really strong mechanism for an annual health check for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, because i am convinced that in slovakia that would have really been support for the ‘good’ people. finally, we found a nation that is in shock, traumatised and angry – but also a nation that is resilient, and our visit was a message to the people of slovakia. we stand shoulder to shoulder with you as europeans to defend our shared values.
blue-card question. – ms beňová, i think everybody agrees that we need to have an independent investigation. the problem is, of course, that the work of ján kuciak was investigating, in particular, people in power. so how can the investigation into his murder be independent if the very people he was targeting are in charge of that? would you like to argue with your party in slovakia that they should allow europol in as a full member of the investigation?
rapporteur. – madam president, it is good to be here. this week, the financial times reported that corporate tax rates have been falling ever further since the crisis, and it raises the question of sovereignty. the only sovereignty the member states currently have is to lower the tax rate, whereas i would think that if countries had a choice, they could not just decrease, but also increase the tax rates. the proposal that the european parliament discusses today is a real game-changer. it changes the nature of tax competition. let’s start with consolidation. consolidation is the principle that firms no longer decide where to make profits and pay taxes, but it is up to the countries to decide where they make profits and where they pay taxes. it puts an end to profit-shifting. this reduces the pressure towards lower tax rates within the eu. but we also need a profit border control, and that has been included in a proposal by the european parliament as well. controlled foreign corporation (cfc) rules and switch—over rules – it sounds a bit technical but what it amounts to is very simple: if a tax rate in a country outside eu is lower than 50% the member states have the right to tax extra, according to the statutory rights. this is a border control that we need to have in place. reducing the pressure on marginal tax rates and making sure that we let multinationals pay their fair share. that’s what people ask from us. the second important element in the proposal is taxing the digital economy, which has long been overdue and should have been done much earlier. we have made calculations that google and facebook didn’t pay 5 billion in taxes over a three-year period, because we are working with an outdated corporate tax system. that is a problem. the current corporate tax systems are outdated. they come from a time with chimneys and blue-collar workers. but globalisation and digitalisation has changed things. and location has become a choice, something that is particularly true for the tech giants, which have no physical presence but are very present in our lives. and in this way, they avoid paying taxes in large, high-tariff countries and reduce their tax bill. third, and i think this is a very clear statement from the european parliament, we think that the current proposal amounts to a simple and robust corporate tax system. it should not just apply to the large corporates, but should be extended to include all firms. so we need a lower threshold to give benefits and bring a level playing field to all the firms within europe. i hope very much that the european parliament will tomorrow give a very clear signal that, despite all the political differences we have, we can agree that we want a fair, efficient and modern corporate tax system for the 21st century. that could be the signal for the countries to start debating this. i very much hope that especially the large countries, germany and france, will put pressure on the smaller countries, countries like the netherlands, ireland, malta, luxembourg that are the pirates within the european union. they come to another country and try to appropriate these countries’ tax base. these are not the actions of a european partner. a fair and efficient tax system in the 21st century is what we need. i call on the support of the european parliament but i also call on the countries to restore their sovereignty and back up these proposals in this year.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues for their contributions in this debate. special thanks also go to the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for working together on these files, as well as to alain lamassoure and also to pierre moscovici. i think we worked together very productively. i very much appreciate it. we have the vote tomorrow, but it doesn’t mean our work ends after tomorrow. we can’t just have a vote in the european parliament. we still have to reach out to national parliaments, national governments and the public to put pressure on for this reform. i also expect that from members of the european parliament, and i am sure that alain lamassoure and i will continue to work outside this house to press for this reform, because this year will be the moment of truth. i am very pleased when pierre moscovici says that this year we should have the discussion in the council and this year we should put the pressure on. this is the year when the member states have to show their true colours. in the end, i think that, even if we don’t have the 27 on board, we should push this, because it puts pressure on the countries that remain outside an agreement. currently, the situation is that google and facebook are in dublin, but the tax reasons for being there become much less if other countries already start to tax google and facebook. this will change the dynamics. hearing this debate, another point came to my mind: first of all that reform is very difficult, especially for countries on their own. they fear losing competition, so the best option for reform is to do it together. so we need to restore sovereignty for member states as well, by trying to reform together. i hope, again, that parliament will give the starting signal and vote in favour with broad support for a fair and efficient corporate tax system in the 21st century.
mr president, i want to talk about two things tonight. first, i want the commission to investigate cases where companies decide to relocate their production within the eu. we need to make sure that eu funds have not been used in such a way that they are actually creating competition between member states. secondly, it is unacceptable that large companies can pretend to be socially responsible by developing social initiatives, or through charity, when, on the other hand, they are not paying the taxes they owe to society. i heard the commissioner mention a roadmap, but can i please ask for an ambitious new action plan on corporate social responsibility (csr) with legal requirements, with stronger reporting obligations and with more effective control mechanisms? to come back to the question of taxes, this action plan should also include the disclosure of tax payments in csr reporting. it is time to expose this hypocrisy, and for that i am counting on the commission and its proposal before the end of the year.
the economic sun is shining in europe, but for many europeans it is still a bright light. youth unemployment is still high in a number of member states and many older people are marginalised in the labour market. the europass is therefore a good complement to help people get back to work: a free online platform where people can easily create a cv or add information to an official certificate, making it easier to understand for employers or institutions abroad. in an era of increasing cross-border work, increasing online job search and the ability to send applications digitally, a platform like europass is a logical choice. we must nevertheless ensure that people are not disconnected from the european labour market. digibetes are at risk of losing their connection and this group deserves our continued attention. nevertheless, i thank the rapporteurs for their work. the proposal for a reformed europass at the speed of the people is of course supported by me.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected. but i'm happy with some marginal notes. one of them is: i did not want to restrict imports of raw materials. i also wanted to regulate consumer goods, like our inseparable cell phone. it didn't work. the other thing i regret is that it has to take so long. america already imposed import restrictions in 2013 and we're not actually going to check until 2021. i'm sorry to hear that. but anyway, we got it. and now we have to make sure that it's there in 2021 and that it's implemented properly. my questions to the commissioner are therefore: how do we make sure that the development money that's available for that implementation is not just going to companies to get their bureaucracy in order, but that mining communities in countries like the congo and their governments are given the space to actually control those companies? the next question is this: what have we done ourselves, what has the european commission done to change the procurement rules so that we too do not buy computers here without knowing what minerals and metals they contain, and do you also make such demands on service contracts from commercial suppliers? i'd like to know. one last point, if i may. there is support for regulations to restrict trade in human rights violations. textiles, for example. please do something about that, because the next step has to be another product.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in electricity and hydrogen. and to meet the paris climate targets, we have to switch to alternative fuels. this includes an ambitious policy for the roll-out of the infrastructure for these fuels. action at european level is crucial. i see the action plan as a first step. let's put the consumer first. the consumer with an electric car must not stop travelling across europe. information on the availability of charging stations shall be reliable. information on costs should be available and transparent. and the payment, when you load, when you use fuel, should be easy. i call on the member states, i call on the commission, i call on industry to take much more ambitious steps to develop infrastructure for these alternative fuels. because only if we put industry, the commission, the member states and consumers at the centre of this together will we really make sustainable transport a european success story.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, over the years, ugandans and partners have expressed outrage at cases of child sacrifice, essentially perpetrated by witch doctors for certain rituals. yet, there is an equally alarming practice referred to as ‘mercy killing’. this implies parents of children with disabilities killing their children or deliberately letting them die of starvation or through the denial of medical attention. poverty and social stigma play a significant role, but not much information is available on the scale of the problem or the number of children concerned. in a recent documentary by a local tv station, some parents confessed to having engaged in mercy killings to save their children from severe suffering throughout their lives. some also confessed to acts of mercy killing to save themselves from the difficulties of raising a child with a disability. although uganda’s legal framework provides for the protection of children, and specifically that of children with disabilities, only limited initiatives have been taken to avert the practice. this is partly attributed to the apparent social tolerance of such killings. the situation is further complicated by the fact that people with disabilities often face marginalisation and rejection. such entrenched social barriers, coupled with inadequate support from communities and government, as well as families, can leave carers with the feeling of having no choice. the european union, through the european instrument for democracy and human rights and other initiatives for the justice and law and order sector, provides support to the government and to non-state bodies to address issues affecting children and discrimination against marginalised women and children. we ask the government to address the problem of mercy killings. parents of children with disabilities need support in providing special care for these children. the government is encouraged to put in place adequate social services, medical care, special needs education and other facilities to enable children with disabilities to enjoy the same rights as any other children. the government should, furthermore, ensure that the perpetrators of mercy killings are brought to justice. the eu stands ready to work with the government of uganda in addressing this issue.
mr president, millions of animals are being dragged across europe every day. they wait for days on the outer borders of europe in the blazing sun. one million citizens have called for an end to this situation. 223 members of this house have asked for a special committee of inquiry. this morning, three members in the front row decided they didn't want to. and i only have three words for that: shame on you!
replacing the author. – mr president, thank you for having this specific point together with johannes hahn, the former commissioner for regional policy. mr hahn, i remember that you were always there when we were negotiating on the regulations for this period, 2014-2020, and that you were in the debate when we talked about the performance reserve. the performance reserve is really an innovation. we talk in this house about performance-based budgeting; we talk about the fact that those partners in the member states, regional cities and member states themselves reach the milestones and they are rewarded for it. it is to praise those who really perform and to give them another incentive to do their utmost. and what happens now? now we stand with the question: what’s the point? the regional development committee wants to test the commission on the feasibility, to do a reality check on the performance reserve. as the president already said, it’s about the esi funds, it’s about the regional development fund, about the european social fund and the cohesion fund... and in these funds we put aside eur 21 billion. that’s 6% of the whole budget for the 7 years, for the best to serve the best. parliament, already last year – it was in westphal report, on 13 june last year – established their building blocks for the rest of the period and gave a glimpse into the next period. parliament there said that we wanted to have quicker decision-making, a faster track if possible, for this reserve that we had made. since then we have had no answer from the european commission on this point. so we want to hear clearly what the commission is willing to do. the questions are clear. first, does the commission intend to commence performance earlier when those programmes in the member states are ahead of schedule and the evaluation can be done earlier. second, depending on the outcome of any such anticipated performance review, is the commission willing to release the performance reserves earlier? next year, we go to the citizens. we have our elections. we did our negotiating in the year 2013; in 2014 we started; 2016... 2017... 2018, and now we have to wait until 2019 to have an evaluation, and then this money that’s already in the envelope of the member states can be committed to be spent later in 2021-22-23. how can i explain to my voters that europe delivers, that europe has better regulation, that europe has an open ear and delivers, where companies and schools and public authorities take the right path? so this is the question: where is the flexibility on the side of the commission? but then something happened: the commission itself came forward in december with a new proposal to take the money of the performance reserve, and they had the intention, and i quote the college, to test the main features of the reform delivery tool in a pilot already in 2018-2020. and that was for quite another goal: to prepare countries, if they want to, to join the eurozone. and this got us to the question: what are we doing with the performance reserve? who can explain this way of acting? so this is the question the regi committee wants to bring forward and i hope that you can come with at least a clear message – because it was so silent, it was too silent. we were surprised when near st. nicholas, at the beginning of december, we got this present and we didn’t understand it anymore.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you for giving me the floor again for the ppe group. there are, of course, no inconsistencies between the two stories. you can understand that. we think – and we want to underline this – that the visibility of our policy should be underlined. with all the complexities maybe we have created a very heavy instrument with this performance reserve, but that does not mean that, in the sense of better regulation and even on the request of a member state, it can present these milestones on the priority axes at the speed we need. so there should be flexibility and i am happy that the total silence until now on this subject in this house is broken and that you are offering us this dialogue. we will definitely take it. secondly, this debate is also in the framework of the new proposal by the commission, and i can say that, if nothing is moving and no flexibility is coming from the performance reserve, i think that we will have serious doubts as to whether we have to be positive on the extent of the proposal that the commission made in december alone. if you don’t move on the one side and you add full flexibility on the other side, i don’t think that the college is being consistent. so we have to speak. otherwise it won’t fly.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by seriously thanking my colleagues for the wonderful spirit in which we worked in the last month and for more than a year in order to come to an agreement with the council in the end. i would really like to emphasise that even those who were not strong supporters of parliament’s mandate were still very, very supportive, defending that mandate during the quite difficult, trilogue, so many thanks again for that. i would also like, despite the absence of the council here, to thank the estonian presidency for the work they have done, but their absence might say enough at this moment. i am standing here with quite mixed feelings. this morning, before i came to strasbourg, i again checked the so-called carbon clock, and the carbon clock indicates how much time we still have left with current co2 emissions in order to stay within the paris agreement. we all so strongly supported the paris agreement and, to refresh your memories, the paris agreement also tries to stay within the 1.5 degrees scenario. for the 1.5 degrees scenario, the time we have left in the medium estimate – so that is not the most extreme – with current co2 emissions is four months and 22 days. four months and 22 days! so it is obviously clear that we need an extreme sense of urgency to stay within that scenario, and it’s clear that during the negotiations with the council, the member states have not shown that sense of urgency. on the contrary, it was extremely difficult, extremely difficult, to get the council moving, and even the arguments that we used from parliament’s side, that with the energy efficiency, a proposal from the commission of 30% instead of the 27%, and with the upcoming facilitative dialogue in the un process, it was absolutely necessary to increase ambition, their answer was very stubborn and that was a clear ‘no’. some member states even argued that given the fact that because of those developments, the ambition might increase in the coming one or two years, they wanted to stay on the lower side by concluding this act of law, which is quite scandalous. so if you ask me if i am satisfied with the final result we agreed, i’m afraid my answer is no, but it was the maximum that we could get out of the council and i think it would have been irresponsible if we had not tried to find an agreement there. but still, i am not satisfied. nevertheless parliament did achieve quite some improvements in this climate action regulation because now we finally got rid of that awful name of ‘effort sharing regulation’, from now on we can call it clearly the climate action regulation. parliament fought hard to get an additional 125 million tonnes of ambition and i am proud of that, and we did tighten the trajectory. member states cannot sit back during the first few years when it kicks in from 2020 onwards. and, very important, there is a strong reference to the long-term climate strategy that the eu and the individual member states must develop, and the european council recently confirmed that by asking the commission to come forward with proposals. so we might now finally get rid of the october 2014 conclusions. we also came to a strict review clause, and that one is extremely important, also in light of what the commission can do in the coming year with the talanoa dialogue and the long-term strategy. i am convinced that this is only the start and that with increased stringency in the coming years we might tighten it up.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank both the rapporteurs, mr lins and mr gerbrandy, because i am also talking on behalf of mr jávor on these two files. they were tough negotiations but there is now a package on the table, and with this package we conclude the climate legislation until 2030 – at least for the moment, because we all know that what is on the table will lead us to minus 40% in 2030, which is insufficient for the paris implementation. we are happy that countries like the netherlands, sweden and france are already acknowledging that, and so we look forward to the commission also coming forward with its long—term proposals to show that more needs to happen at the european front also. but if we know already that the targets are insufficient, let’s at least have the reporting rules straight, and that is what we did in these two regulations as well. on lulucf i am happy that now we can also make sure that at the european level there will not be a decrease of the sink, and that is why the greens will support the lulucf regulation. however, on effort—sharing there are too many loopholes. it has been weakened too often and we know also that the base year has been put to a very bad level which means that the cumulative emissions will be much bigger than could have been possible. in the end, for climate it is the cumulative emissions that count. that is why the greens will vote against that part of the climate legislation. that is for now, and now it is onto the commission to come up with new proposals to make sure that we really are implementing paris.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, including the introduction of a new environmental law. i am glad that this climate law allows for a very important natural event, namely that agriculture is one of the few sectors that is also able to capture co2 from the air in the form of soil life and organic matter in the soil. not only is this good for the climate, but it also creates a win-win situation in three other ways. it is better for water management and it also provides fertile agricultural land. i am glad that with this legislation farmers, foresters and gardeners are able to count this in their own co2 emissions, and that they can also sell and reward this to other sectors. i hope therefore that the national authorities will soon come up with clear programmes to help farmers and gardeners.
mr president, a lot of people in this chamber have said a lot of things, and we are talking about the climate agreement. from day one, i've said in this room, i will support it, but it must be feasible, affordable and workable, especially for the agricultural sector - and especially if we are talking about article 2 of the climate policy - and it must not come at the expense of food production. in my country - i am also looking at mr gerbrandy - it is being done very actively. but sometimes one side is mentioned, and sometimes the other. it must therefore remain viable and i would certainly like to address this call to the commissioner, because otherwise a farmer will not know which way to go.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by thanking all my colleagues from far-left to the far-right for their kind words. it was a difficult process and in the end we did find an agreement with council – that was the mission of my first remarks – also with strong support from the commission and the commissioner personally as well, being present at all trilogue meetings. still, besides the fact that we did find a political agreement, it is not enough. it should have been much more ambitious, and i hope that that will be echoed by many others as well. that means, from now on, now that we have found agreement – and i hope that we have sufficient support tomorrow during the vote – that there is a huge responsibility on the shoulders of the commission. it is up to the commission to now think of ways to strengthen our climate policy in europe that is necessarily in the light and in the spirit of the paris agreement. therefore, also in line with the upcoming long-term strategy that the commissioner is currently drafting, i hope that we can convince together the absent council as far as needed in order to really stay within the paris boundaries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a waste-processing plant. by 2035, virtually everywhere, there should be no more landfilling or garbage belts. in the netherlands, we are ahead. the member states of the union must finally, through this legislation, take a serious look at the real circular economy within the european single market. waste of raw materials is simply unwise. this legislation saves both our environment and our collective wallet for governments, producers and consumers alike. so this is about our children's future. i have been committed from the beginning to greater ambition in these recycling targets. increased emphasis on waste innovation, including the recovery of minerals from soil masses and the drastic reduction of landfilling of waste. unfortunately, the european parliament has not fully supported this higher ambition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's a real shame. the european waste technology sector now has enormous opportunities thanks to the determination of this parliament. we have to get on with it because this legislation is finally forcing circular investment from governments. finally, circular innovation simply means ecological and economic optimization, and that's what farmers in europe have actually been doing for hundreds of years.
in writing. mr president, when i open my newspaper or turn on the television, i see and read mainly about men. in the media, women appear to make up only 24% of the population. and when women do appear in the media, they are most often asked for a 'personal story' and rarely for their expertise (17%) these grim figures show that women, including in the media, have not yet achieved the same status as men. the under-representation of women in the media contributes to the image that they occupy a less prominent position in society. the media sector should play a major role in changing gender stereotypes. president, if we really want to achieve equality between men and women - equality in pay, pensions and rights inclusive - women must be represented everywhere. the media has a crucial role to play in this, as it influences everyone's image. there's so much female talent that's currently underutilized. progress has been made in recent decades, but we still struggle with the pay gap in the workplace and gender inequality in the media. that's why i say: let us not bury the hatchet while the stubborn remnants of the past are still visible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to pick up where mr jurek left off. first of all, a little correction: it is not a union of member states, it is a union of citizens and citizens may actually have very different views. what will happen when this instrument is adopted, is that we are actually going to strengthen democracy. why? because one of the tasks of civil society is to actually challenge people who are in power. it is to challenge governments. it is called checks and balances, it is the very core of democracy and, yes, that means that civil society could, for example, challenge your government or the hungarian government. i think that would be extremely healthy for democracy in those countries and other countries. it is very funny that the european union has instruments to support ngos and civil society outside the european union but not inside. therefore, i very much welcome the initiative by michał boni. it is also in line with the position adopted by the european parliament in october 2016 in the report on the drf pact so i very much welcome this. i think the report by the fundamental rights agency about the state of civil society also highlights the urgent need for such an instrument. in this context, i would also like to strongly condemn the recent targeting of ngos and people working for ngos in hungary. i think that is a very dangerous development and it should be condemned by this house. finally, madam commissioner, i have just one question because i think the commission should also seriously implement other instruments aiming for accountability, like the preparatory action on the litigation fund and we have just met with your people this week. but i am also a little bit worried to hear that the commission explicitly excludes the instrument of litigation or litigation costs as eligible activities, like under the recent call for proposals for the eu programme for employment and social innovation. litigation is a very important instrument, allowing citizens and ngos to create this sphere of fundamental rights and the rule of law so please give your support to litigation as well. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – in a democracy, we fund lots of organisations that serve the public interest, such as political parties like your political party. you are receiving funding, so does that impair your independence? i do not think so. we have a long tradition in the european union of giving financial support to civil society: does that make them less independent? i do not think so. they are also accountable. there are rules on transparency – which, incidentally, are being abused by some governments in the european union – so no, i think it is a good thing. it strengthens democracy, and i wholeheartedly support this initiative.
mr president, mr president of the republic, thank you for coming. there are many of us who stand with you. especially when it comes to fighting the nationalistic and romantic but often dangerous visions of the 19th century of those who believe that they can go it alone. i believe that cross-border challenges ask for cross-border and european solutions. you have spoken very little about economic and monetary union (emu) and the banking union. i believe it is very important to reassure those constituents, especially in my member state but also in others, who say that, of course, france also has some homework to do when it comes to reforms. you have been one of the few presidents who have actually said out loud that france needs to reform before we can take steps at a european level. i thank you for that; i think it's refreshing. but can you reassure my constituents that you will be taking those reforms at home to an end before we take steps at a european level? i look forward to your answer.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. let's be honest here. paper is very patient here again. the pact recognises that migration is an age-old phenomenon and states that every effort must be made to make legal migration possible. but there is still no sign of a european commission proposal for a law to give migrants access to europe, including lower paid and lower skilled jobs. we have to wait until well after the european elections for a proposal of this kind. we know that in southern europe the harvest is taken by undocumented migrants and that exploitation is the order of the day. the global pact and our parliamentary resolution also reject the imprisonment of children. that makes sense, because children do not belong in prison, but - and even in this parliament we dare not say it out loud - european countries are imprisoning children. refugee children awaiting asylum or being deported are systematically detained. or helping migrants, feeding someone, offering someone a lift, rescuing someone from the sea, these are all normal, human, humane actions. that is not a crime, as our resolution says. but there are european member states that have prosecuted and prosecuted their own citizens who gave refugees a lift. there's a spanish rescue ship in italy on a chain for rescuing people from drowning at sea. these are three examples that show that european member states may be speaking very human language in new york, but at home they are just going about business as usual, preventing migrants at all costs. to be politically and administratively responsible, we must do what we say.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). asylum rights for a relatively small number of refugees are confused with the desire to migrate of many millions of people. the report downplays the problems that arise. it puts internal mobility in the eu on a par with the depopulation of syria and suggests that the member states of the european union are admitting too few migrants. the report does not suggest anywhere that there are limits to the growth of the number of migrants. i mean, it's obvious that this is untenable, right? now all the western countries are barely able to cope with the mass migration. we read in this report that because of this migration, there is a lot more to be done in every eu country in the areas of health care, education, child protection, housing, social inclusion, justice, employment, social protection, but these are issues that are already under pressure in the member states of the union. with continued mass migration, these issues will disappear rather than improve. the united states takes in a million immigrants a year. that's more than any other country. the united states, however, has withdrawn from these negotiations. that should tell us something, right?
it is good that the united nations is making a serious effort to reach agreements to make the migration problem more manageable and at the same time to ensure that people who have to flee are received safely. the eu must take the lead in this regard, despite the fact that a small number of european heads of government, such as viktor orban, are standing in the way. it is therefore of the utmost importance that our european governments do not just talk about it, but actually act. worldwide, more than 1 million vulnerable refugees are eligible for resettlement. but the eu countries together have only managed to provide this safe and legal route for 25 000 people in two years. this political failure still leads to refugees dying on the way to safety. governments that are willing to think in terms of solutions need to ensure that the un process leads to substantially more places being offered to this vulnerable group of refugees.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, thank you. high commissioner, colleagues, – or high representative, excuse me – every time we discuss syria we have to mourn more deaths, more who have forcibly disappeared or been raped or tortured, and recently – despite the alleged destruction of syria’s chemical weapons, despite international law – hundreds, including children, choked to death because of the use of chemical weapons. those children cannot possibly be terrorists, as president assad claims with every citizen that he kills, and this cannot go unanswered. but even now – and we’ve heard it as the eu position over and over again – the mantra is that there is no military solution to the war in syria. the question that i want to ask is whether all this is happening because we have no decisive role in creating peace and contributing to peace in syria. clearly – and i really hate to say this – military brutality by the cynical coalition of assad, putin and tehran-steered militants is creating facts on the ground, and the facts amount to war crimes. i’m convinced of that. so when we as the eu repeat that there is no military solution, what we must avoid is a situation in which this becomes the carte blanche for the status quo and for facts creeping ever further on the ground. we desperately need an eu strategy to end the war in syria if we want to be serious about ending the war. seven years of bloodshed, several vetoes by our member states, disruption in syria and the middle east – and an impact here in europe, with people seeking shelter and asylum, which is also – unfortunately – feeding politics of fear seeking to exploit the situation. this impacts us globally and certainly in europe. so i think that next week’s syria conference is another opportunity for the eu to develop a strategy and i consider it welcome that accountability and justice are to be the key priority. that is an essential ingredient for peace, and so hopefully the eu as a whole can build on the dutch, german and swedish initiative to centralise accountability. (applause)
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: but - and i hear so little about this and have not seen it reflected in the council conclusions - the geopolitical and military reality also requires us to recognize that all these efforts do not bring a lasting political solution to the national and, above all, regional flashpoint that the syrian territory is currently constituting. and then, in particular, an acute danger, the expanding iranian military presence on syrian territory will therefore not have to be the exclusive security risk for the 70-year-old israel. the destabilising and regional advance of tehran requires an urgent and joint western response. i do not hear anything about that in yesterday's council conclusions or in today's debate. that's about to happen. escalation by iranian military presence on israel's northern border in combination with hezbollah. we close our eyes and leave israel alone. it is not only sad, it is a disgrace!
rapporteur. – madam president, in less than two weeks the commission will publish its proposal for the multiannual financial framework, and a lot of attention will go to the eu budget after brexit. but we should not forget about the future of the eu’s foreign policy spending, with almost eur 100 million budgeted for external relations already, a lot is at stake, and we must use this upcoming budget as an opportunity to reflect and reform in order to make the eu a stronger global player. it is undeniable that the current foreign policy spending structure needs improvement. evaluations, independent ones, have found that a strategic and overarching vision is lacking, while management by different services within both the commission and the european external action service are inefficient and incoherent. information sharing with us here in parliament has been anything but forthcoming and, similarly, legal barriers have prevented the eu from swiftly responding to new and emerging challenges. we cannot make opaque trust funds the new model for foreign policy spending and certainly not with the main goal of managing migration, and that is exactly what risks happening. the european external action service is rumoured to seek the creation of one single instrument for eu external action with ‘a strong focus on migration’. you heard it right: the goal is to pool all the money together, and as we understand, commissioner hahn is trying to ensure the funding intended for candidate member states and the european neighbourhood remain separate. what’s most concerning to me and many of my colleagues is not that there is an appetite for ambitious reforms – in fact that should be embraced – but that no governance model has been set up for such a single instrument. so how can we in the european parliament be asked to agree with the new vehicle if we do not know how it is going to be steered? i am afraid that the lack of clarity here uncovers a bigger problem. during a recent committee on foreign affairs hearing and during the many foreign instruments working groups that i have chaired, it has become clear that members of the european parliament are not in the mood to give the external action service or the commission carte blanche. they feel sidelined already as strategic dialogues are often neither strategic nor dialogues. information is shared reluctantly and late. parliament is keen to ensure it can do its job and steer policies, spending and apply the necessary and required parliamentary scrutiny. meps also want to build in more flexibility to ensure adequate responses to new crises, as well as the preservation of european values. we do, as europe faces unprecedented challenges at the moment: bloodshed continues in yemen and syria, and presidents erdoğan and el-sisi have further consolidated their authoritarian grip on power in turkey and egypt. at the same time, governments in russia, china and iran are at odds with the values and interests we hold dear in europe. in practice, the values-based goals and objectives of eu foreign policy have too often become subordinate to short-term and national interests such as migration management or countering terrorism. the deal concluded with president erdoğan to stop syrian refugees from reaching us in europe is a case in point. the future of the eu’s foreign policy budget can benefit from reforms, but cannot only be designed to deal with today’s crises. who knows what could be at the top of the agenda in 2025? and in the absence of an altogether more flexible budget, which is what we should be focusing on with the mff, we need at least to build in flexibility while we have multiannual spending plans. but certainly the instrumentalising of all foreign policy funds and managing migration as the key goal is not the right direction. so before the european external action service and the commission propose a new architecture, they should think about governance and, where needed, be reminded that we in parliament play an equal role here. i therefore encourage colleagues in this house to focus on the principles of parliamentary scrutiny, oversight, policy-steered spending, evaluations and accountability. let us not get bogged down in long lists of our favourite instruments to save from the reforms.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would especially like to thank all the colleagues who broadly support the compromise in the resolution. in replying after the debate, we have one key question left that can be summarised in one word, and that is ‘how’. we hear, on the one hand, that the mid-term review concludes that the instruments are fit—for—purpose. on the other hand, we get a proposal to radically change the instruments. i think the commission and the external action service really urgently need to explain how – and not only to us (we are budget and foreign policy geeks, not a big group of people, although we would have been interested in an actual outline and we have asked for it before), but what about our citizens and what about our partner countries? this cannot wait until the last minute, if you really want this to be a success. i think, generally, the notion of better communication has been raised by meps throughout many discussions we have had. so i unfortunately have to conclude that there is still no clarity on governance. it is a broad ask and, frankly, i think it is a missed opportunity that this debate was not used to outline how the reform of the instruments will be governed. on a number of focus areas that you outlined in your introduction, such as public diplomacy, the western balkans and a digital values—based approach, i think we generally have common ground, but i am concerned when i hear things like ‘we will work according to what the people want’. of course, this is a highly political discussion and i suspect it will be for the entire multiannual period that we are talking about, and i urge the external action service and the commission not to lose sight of long-term goals and objectives: even though short-term solutions can be very tempting, they can also be a populist trap. i really think that we, the eu, have a bigger promise than only to look at short-term goals. certainly when everything gets framed in the context of migration management, i do not think that that is a long-term and a sustainable and values-based solution. i know a lot of colleagues are very unhappy if that is the direction we are going in. to conclude: yes, our money should be focused on policy goals, and should be spent efficiently with the appropriate oversight and parliamentary scrutiny, while respecting our values. we can only really talk about whether we agree with the new architecture if we know how it is going to be governed.
president. - the commission considers that this agreement with australia is in the interests of the people and of the world. but is it also in the interests of animals? like the eu, australia is sending live animals to the middle east and asia. last week we saw shocking images of thousands of sheep succumbing to heat on board such a large australian sheep ship, and every night thousands of kangaroos are hunted down and killed in australia. baby kangaroos are kicked to death and left helpless after their mother is murdered. europe is a major importer of kangaroo meat and is therefore partly responsible for these problems. in addition, the eu is failing to protect its citizens from kangaroo meat contaminated with salmonella and e. coli. article 19 of that agreement deals with animal welfare. i ask the commission to put its word to its deed and, in the interests of both man and animal, to come forward as soon as possible with a ban on the import of australian kangaroo meat. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, mr president, and i would also like to thank mrs gräßle for chairing the committee on budgetary control, where we work together on business, and i agree with her. at the same time, i do criticize what she said about the amendments i tabled on behalf of my group, among others, on the commission's integrity policy. that is the political appreciation that belongs here in the house and that is what we agreed. so that can't come as a surprise. i shall say no more about the commission's integrity policy, but i will say something about parliament's integrity policy. i am now looking at the direction of klaus welle, the secretary general. he makes good proposals on general office expenses, the allowance of 4 000 euros a month, on the shortfalls that threaten the voluntary pension fund, but nobody sees them. we don't know what's in it. because those are documents that go to the bureau of this house, that's classified. it contains documents from working groups of members of this house, which are classified. why don't we just go public with this? why are we not transparent about this ourselves? we are asking the commission to do the same. and there are misunderstandings. klaus welle says it's possible for me to put all the meetings i have with lobbyists on my european parliament webpage and then i go to the automation service and they say: no, you can't do that. so there are misunderstandings and that is why i would like to remind the house that: let's be transparent ourselves, and we'll have the case quickly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, thanks to mark zuckerberg, the general data protection regulation (gdpr) is now the best known european law ever, even in the us congress. yes, thank you, mark, this one’s for you! i think mr zuckerberg would be well advised to appear before this house out of respect for hundreds of millions of european facebook users who feel deceived. there are actually more users here than in the us, and i think zuckerberg should be here. we should not be visiting him in the united states. he should be here. but today’s debate is not about facebook. the european parliament, yes, and also the european data protection authorities will scrutinise very closely whether the new facebook privacy arrangements are compliant with all eu legislation, but we also need to take a very critical look at ourselves. we talk the talk, but do we also walk the walk, commission, council and dear friends? because amongst those who are voicing their outrage at facebook are many who have consistently voted against stricter privacy protection, and continue to do so. like those – including the president of this house, dear friends – who summoned mr zuckerberg to the european parliament, but they voted against e-privacy, so a bit of consistency, please. i also note that the european data protection authorities have hardly responded to earlier reports on cambridge analytica and facebook. it has been known since last year – why have they been so slow? and despite the jubilation about gdpr, member states have not nearly allocated the necessary means to the national data protection authorities to enable them to properly enforce the gdpr. i also note that the advice of designated experts, like the european data protection supervisor and working party 29, are being systematically ignored. their advice on data retention, pnr, safe harbour: ignored! and all subsequently scrapped by the european court of justice. worryingly, decisions by the european court of justice are also being ignored. now will the commission remain deaf to the recommendations of working party 29 on pnr and privacy shield, or act? because while we are busy barricading the front door to keep the likes of mr zuckerberg out, the back door is wide open. and we are giving away our way our personal data by the truckload, not just to our own government agencies, but also to other countries like the united states, with legal safeguards that carry about as much weight as donald’s tweets. european citizens are left out in the cold, unprotected. yes, the facebook case is a wake-up call for all of us. mr zuckerberg, privacy is not dead. it’s alive and kicking.
mr president, i was allowed to read a very large advertisement in my newspaper. it said: "new eu legislation means better data protection for you" and i thought: what a hypocrite you are, mark zuckerberg. you, who spent years lobbying with your big money against better european data protection laws. you who claims that what you do is bring people together, that it's not making money. but it is. it's about making money. it's about making money from our data, and it's time that we make laws to ensure that mark zuckerberg has a different business model in the future. i am indeed glad that there is now new european data protection legislation, but we don't owe facebook for that, it is the last thing we owe facebook for.
mr president, the line between online and offline is blurring, so we need to be extra vigilant about the use of personal data. facebook has rightly come under fire because a cambridge analytica questionnaire collected personal data. but not only the fillers, who had given their consent, but also their facebook friends, had their data taken away and they didn't know anything. in the netherlands, it was revealed last week that healthcare companies are using a facebook pixel to share sensitive information with facebook. that is why i am pleased that new european legislation will come into force next month. in this case, personal data can only be used with the consent of the individuals, and then enforcement by european bodies and by the dutch is crucial. i also believe that the commission should put an end to its arrogant disdain for this parliament and re-open the appointment procedure for a new secretary-general.
mr president, facebook is suddenly a fan of european data protection rules. the wonders are not yet over. but it did require a major scandal where data from millions of european users was shamefully passed to a shadowy company, cambridge analytica, and used in political campaigns, without those people's consent and without their knowledge. facebook knew about it, but kept quiet for two years. that's not really surprising, because i jokingly took facebook's reaction to those new rules from europe about six years ago and they said very clearly: we should have focused on encouraging best practices by companies like facebook rather than on setting out detailed rules that may be frustrating and costly. overly prescriptive provisions on consent have an adverse effect on user experience. an overly prescriptive nature of regulation on data-based notification creates a level of bureaucracy that only distracts. that's facebook as we know it. not too much fuss, not too many rules, make a lot of money. but now mark zuckerberg has apologized and had a beautiful ad placed in european newspapers advertising those same rules. and now we have to believe him on his blue eyes. i don't believe it. i know. this knee-jerk is too little, too late. mark zuckerberg has to answer to the eu, to this house, and i expect the european regulators to apply the new rules that facebook is so big on, and apply them to that company from day one, very hard.
the vote will take place tomorrow at the end of a long negotiation. for the second time in a few years, we are tightening the law against money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion and avoidance. and it was necessary. just after my colleague kariņš and i had finished the fourth directive at christmas 2014, an attack took place in paris, the attack on the offices of charlie hebdo. then the panama papers came out and showed once again how corporations and individuals were siphoning off money from the irs. every year, billions are lost to society as criminals move money illegally or in an obscure way through a chain of companies and trusts. with these new rules, we're tackling the practice of people covering up their wealth in a shady way from law enforcement and the irs. we see criminals getting smarter and smarter and using other ways to launder money or finance terrorism, like virtual currencies like bitcoin and anonymous prepaid cards. tax structures that may be legal, may be legal, but are morally unacceptable in my eyes, have been made public by whistleblowers and journalists over the last few years. think of luxleaks, take the panama papers and the paradise papers. they show how letterbox companies operate worldwide and the damage caused by unpaid tax is incalculable. it's about sick people who don't get nursed. it's about kids who don't go to school. we have a problem with the european parliament, but we have a problem with the developing countries, on a continent like africa. that is why we have taken action this time and have now made a register for trusts, the ubo register, compulsory in addition to the register for ultimate stakeholders for companies. it's a way to find out who really runs a company or a trust. i hope that this will help investigative journalists and that they will shine a light on the industry. i also hope that companies will scratch themselves twice behind the ears before they start again on a double dutch-irish sandwich, because they know that society is watching. the ubo register for companies is completely public. the ubo register for trusts is not, unfortunately, but if you as a citizen or journalist have a valid reason, you can look into it. earlier, when we were negotiating the previous directive, david cameron, then prime minister of great britain, blocked that trust registry. he later turned up in the panama papers. my own country, the netherlands, has always said that a trust register is not necessary. but in the meantime we know that dutch companies are also taking advice and using, for example, a trust in cyprus to commit fraudulent acts. there is a company that is now being targeted in the netherlands for having consulted with baker tilly berk tax advisors. that should be over by now. the fact that we are passing this law tomorrow should also put things in order in the tax haven of the netherlands. i would like to say, mr president, that i am very pleased to see the commissioner present. it is not possible that there are still so many member states which have not applied the fourth directive, including my own country. the director of europol recently again pointed out that member states are lax in their fight against money laundering. this parliament is not lax and i am proud of the result and for that i owe a debt of gratitude to my colleague, mr kariņš and the shadow rapporteurs who have been very much by our side every time. i would also like to thank the european commission and the latvian presidency. we had to negotiate with the maltese first. it was no fun. but after six months of struggle, the latvians have finally achieved this result with us.
mr president, we are discussing today the financing of terrorism. the report says that terrorist attacks have revealed so-called new emerging trends. so my group thought: finally, we're going to get the facts straight. finally, not only we, but everyone sees the inextricable link between islam and terrorism. islam-inspired and legitimated violence is responsible for 99% of all terrorist murders in 2015 and 95% of all terrorist murders in 2016, according to europol's annual reports. when it comes to terrorist financing, it's also very important to look at the funding of mosques and imams. these are often funded by countries like saudi arabia and qatar. in this way, our free western society is being poisoned with intolerant islamic hatred. this will increase the threat of terrorist attacks. the word islam occurs exactly zero times. the words "mosque" and "imam" don't appear either. we cannot take this report seriously.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, it is not often that i speak in the house in favour of a story and almost everyone says: what a good, good job, i agree with you. i am also working on another case, the rule of law in hungary, and i hope to find the same support there. years ago, thabo mbeki was in this house when he chaired a un committee that looked at money that disappeared from africa without being taxed, and he estimated with his researchers that it was over 50 billion dollars a year. money that was not taxed, so people in africa could not enjoy it. that's where my motivation came from to draft this legislation. i've heard some of my colleagues try to blame it on someone else. discussing terrorist financing and focusing on mosques or islam. it is also about us and the responsibility we take to control our companies and our criminals, to expose abuses such as tax evasion in other countries. it also concerns two journalists who were recently murdered in europe, one in malta and one in slovakia. journalists who investigated money laundering and the misuse of funds by governments. journalists who deserve our support. i would like to stress with the commissioner that it is extremely important that this legislation is implemented quickly and i have reviewed it: the fourth money laundering directive - you have already sent letters about it - has not yet been transposed by bulgaria, cyprus, greece, luxembourg, malta, poland, romania and my own country, the netherlands. i would like to stress that this is not a good idea.
it is good, mr president, that there is clear legislation on organic farming, that the same high quality standards are required throughout the european union. but i do think we should use our common sense and not try to regulate everything with this legislation and make it a bureaucratic monster. i don't care if you're an organic farmer or a conventional farmer, i always think there has to be room for innovation and entrepreneurship. i also think it is good that this proposal not only sets the requirements for farmers in the european union, but also sets the same requirements for products from third countries sold here in the european union. for example: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that is ridiculous and it is good that this regulation is putting an end to that.
- a writer. mr president, one recent image from the gaza strip has shocked me deeply and continues to shock me to this day. that was a scene with a coffin draped with the israeli flag. on the side of the coffin were the pictures of two young israeli soldiers. i recognized hadar goldin's face from one of the photos. hadar goldin was killed by hamas terrorists during a un ceasefire in 2014. his body still hasn't been returned to the family. this is contrary to the principles of international humanitarian law. i know hadar goldin's mother personally, lea goldin. one intense desire drives her: a dignified funeral close to home for a beloved, gifted child. the european parliament today adopted a resolution calling clearly for the bodies of hadar goldin and oron shaul to be returned to their families. i would like to stress these points and i welcome them very much. it is about the principles of respect for life and dignity of the dead. it is my heartfelt wish that this resolution will help to restore the bodies and basic human dignity to the goldin and shaul families. the european parliament is thus paying tribute to the souls of parents who have been hit hard on both sides.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). we see nothing at all in such plans. first of all, i think of the european commission's plans as involving meddling, pointless and unnecessary arrangements and interference with national sovereignty. we are firmly in favour of the free market economy. companies are responsible for their own success and should not be hindered by european bureaucrats who have no idea what healthy competition and market functioning actually mean. we are against the transfer of powers to the european union. we are against the waste of european taxpayers' money in supporting unprofitable companies and bankrupt shipyards. in other sectors too, it has been shown in the past that state aid and subsidies merely delay execution. it's often nothing more than a temporary cover for the bleeding. the airline industry and the car industry, for example, are two examples. the netherlands has also learned from the damage and the shame of state aid. in the 1980s the dutch taxpayer paid billions and billions of guilders to support shipyards in our own country, ultimately to no avail. large shipyards were closed after a few years and tens of thousands of jobs were lost. so all the tax money had been for nothing. in recent years the dutch shipping industry has been flourishing again. not because of the government, but because of the power of entrepreneurship and innovation in the sector itself. in the end, it is the market, not government, that determines where and when what goods are produced. it's a question of supply and demand, price and quality. in short, stop the so-called aid programmes, stop the european subsidy infusion, curb the regulatory drive and leave the shipping industry alone!
the european commission has today presented the long-awaited financial version of the new multiannual budget. to our astonishment, the budget is increasing by as much as eur 300 billion, whereas it should have been reduced by some eur 100 billion just because of brexit. the netherlands is also ignoring the annual rebate of 1 billion euros under the guise of simplification! this budget means that the netherlands will now have to pay 10 billion euros a year instead of the current 7 billion euros. the dutch taxpayer will lose €1,000 a year to the eu if it is left to the commission. i propose to cut back and cut back on expenditure by, among other things, stopping subsidies, aid programmes and financial support to countries like turkey, cutting the salaries and allowances of officials and parliamentarians and, of course, stopping the strasbourg circus. this is the time to make adjustments and to cut the budget considerably. the netherlands should not pay more but much less to the failed eu project.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new instrument for the promotion of cohesion. it is a unique system that is being looked at all over the world, to see how europe is stimulating on the one hand and on the other hand, more or less, making money through the single market. it's down seven percent. that is too much, but nevertheless the member states are also contributing and everything that is done in europe will have to be co-financed by the member states. that's the way it's gonna be. it's not a free lunch. the present system is already very much conditioned by where the money should go and how it should be spent. structural reforms are necessary you also write about this. now comes the value test. how we do that is a big question. i am very much interested to see whether the council, the other party besides parliament with which it is consulting, will come forward with clear proposals. if that is the case, then i think we are making a step forward, because what is at stake is not simply the continuous injection of funds into the regions, but also the effects of this.
i would like to add my voice to those who say that the eib's work has become important for european union policy too. but precisely because it is becoming an ever-larger bank with ever-increasing resources, it is also important that transparency and integrity are perfectly regulated, and there is really something to be done about that. the rapporteur has already said that the minutes of the management committee must be made public. the european ombudsman's proposal should also be adopted to tighten up the code of conduct against conflicts of interest, in order to prevent people who have worked at the bank from going back to work in the same sector or vice versa, to avoid a kind of revolving door. and finally, as far as i am concerned, the complaints mechanism. there is a reform for that and i have made all kinds of proposals in the consultation. they are also mentioned in this report. but the bank is not responding! i would very much like to see this clarified very quickly, and it is therefore regrettable that mr hoyer is not here. complaints are very important for transparency and integrity. these need to be independently assessed and this is not currently the subject of the bank's proposals.
president. - mr president, when i saw the subject of this debate i was a little surprised, because i thought we had spoken in strasbourg two weeks ago about the great fight against fraud. we've been talking about the selmayr case. and now was the perfect time to do something about outright fraud. only then did the majority in this parliament remain silent. and that, mr president, is the hypocrisy of it. a lot of words about fraud, a lot of tough words about fraud. but if it's really important and if we can really do something, it'll just be quiet. but you don't hear me complaining, of course. i would say: hold this, hold this, keep going. you have already overcome the shame here, push it a little further and then at the elections next year the people in the netherlands and in the other member states will at least know what to vote for, and that is against this failed experiment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of transport. we also see that different funds can work very well together. it was said before: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's important too. what we have also learned is that there are other ways of putting pressure on the member states. look, in the period 2007-2014 we had the experience that of course the cohesion fund gave billions in aid, but that the member states often looked at their own problems around cities, improving sections of road or rail or building airports without looking at the other. and what was said: the billions we have taken from the cohesion fund and put into the cef will give you the opportunity to make commitments quickly. if you don't, central management will take over. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it's got the noses pointed at each other. there is an important lesson here which we will certainly apply for the next period - mr novakov was looking for that too. bringing together studies, from member states and within them - which is what the cef actually does - appointing trainers, leaders for various port and transport issues has worked. so my conclusion is essentially: the method worked. let us continue this in the new period.
president, investment in transport infrastructure under cohesion policy is producing concrete and visible results. transport projects help to reduce the developmental backwardness of parts of europe. we have had the opportunity to witness this with a delegation from the committee on regional development, for example in sofia, where the european union is investing in the metro. but investment in infrastructure - i want to emphasise this - also strengthens the internal market. we often say in the netherlands: without transport, everything is at a standstill. mr novakov's report rightly outlines the challenges for transport infrastructure beyond 2020. completion of the trans-european transport network, improving the sustainability of transport, and applying innovations. these are all very important challenges. to this end, after 2020, we need to make complementary use of the connecting europe facility, the cohesion fund, the european regional development fund, as well as funding from the european investment bank. i also call for more resources from the european regional development fund, specifically for crossborder investment projects in sustainable transport infrastructure in europe. the interreg programmes are a perfect tool for this. in this way, with the resources of the european regional development fund, we can invest in the missing links in the infrastructure of our border regions. and then, mr president, we can really begin to connect the people of europe.
thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for their contributions. i also thank mrs comi for putting this important debate on the agenda, because it is important. in my country, the netherlands, alone, we have several thousand cases of stalking a year. when we talk about the combination of stalking and threats, we're talking about tens of thousands of cases a year. the question we have to ask ourselves today is whether the european instruments we have are sufficiently equipped to make a real difference in the way we deal with crossborder situations. commissioner jourová, you were right when you said: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. but what about the perpetrators' approach? stalking is not on the list of offences for which a european arrest warrant can be issued. this means that if we suspect that an offender may be repeating his crime, we cannot enter a warning in the schengen information system in case he leaves for another country. the question is whether we should change that. and my appeal to the european commission and to the member states is: we are also looking at the possibility of a new european union. it is not acceptable in europe that a person capable of such acts can simply escape the police and the courts by crossing a border. this is unacceptable!
president. - children are children and they have a right to our protection, regardless of where they come from and regardless of how they got here. it is crucial that we also include in our asylum policy the instruments to make that protection a reality. this also means that we must identify and register all children who arrive here as refugees or migrants, and that we must also give member states the possibility of guaranteeing that registration. it also means that we must ensure that member states can check that children are indeed children, that we can expose adults who are pretending to be children precisely in order to protect those children. and much of the legislation that we can regulate this is on the table right now. i therefore call on the council and the commission, and certainly on my colleagues in this house, to continue with this.
written. unaccompanied minors are the children who arrive at our borders without their parents, seeking protection from war, violence and oppression. children who survived the journey to europe on their own or with little brothers and sisters. children who have long been deprived of decent care or any form of guardianship in the countries of arrival, greece and italy, and who are at high risk of 'disappearing' into prostitution, crime or child labour, or of being recruited by extremists. european governments regularly lock these children up in detention centres, against all international agreements. but it's wrong not to care for this extremely vulnerable group. these refugees should be given all the protection they deserve. only by creating a decent shelter and giving children enough attention will they have a chance to integrate into our society and work in europe towards a stable future. they must never be the victims of the lack of solidarity in the eu and the absence of a political agreement on the fair distribution of refugees among the member states.
mr president, more than 115 million animals are being abused for animal testing worldwide. in europe too, the number of animal experiments is still increasing. as early as 2004, the european union banned animal testing for make-up, creams, shampoos and other cosmetic products. now, 15 years later, there are still products in the store that have been tested on animals. in europe, for example, the chemicals legislation still allows reach to test on animals. that is why it is important that the eu coordinates all these laws. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. so the animals don't really benefit from that. i think it is a very good plan to fight for a worldwide ban on animal testing, first for cosmetics, but then of course for other applications. for animals it makes no difference what law, what exception or what product they are killed for in laboratories. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i would like to thank the three commissioners for their work. i know that with three commissioners and perhaps 20 dgs it is very difficult to put together such a package. that 's my only criticism . i think the package has come too late, especially when you look at this legislature. on the other hand, if we can achieve this package, then european transport, but also energy, will become cleaner, safer and better digitised, will have a better infrastructure and will bring more benefits to european industry. anyone who has read it knows that there is a huge package and we have to see how far we get in this period. rounding out mobility packages 1 and 2 will be difficult, but i promise the european commission: we're doing the best we can.
the north sea is one of the most complex fishing grounds in the world. we are dealing with almost 100 different species, and fleets from eight member states. i am in favour of regionalisation in fisheries, because the different fisheries in the european union have different species and conditions. so you have to take those differences into account, and we're doing that in the new policy. it started with the baltic sea plan: that was the basis for this north sea plan, and that basis is good. that is why we wholeheartedly support the north sea plan as it stands. we also have great appreciation for the approach and the work of mr rodust. we can do that now because this plan is continuing the development of a more successful north sea policy. all the major fish stocks in that sea are at their peak. there is one other concern, mr president, and that concerns the hearing we held last week in the committee on fisheries. then we saw that there are still many questions about the landing duties. we must resolve these issues together, otherwise untenable situations may arise.
the north sea is a beautiful natural area. it is the largest nature reserve in the netherlands, and it is home to a great variety of species that deserve protection. unfortunately, the north sea is not protected as such and this plan does not give the north sea and the animals that live there the protection they deserve. in fact, protection measures for sharks and rays have been removed entirely from the original proposal and a trick is being used to allow overfishing to continue even after 2020. this is contrary to the common fisheries policy and it is contrary to the development objectives of the united nations. mr president, we as a parliament cannot accept that. in september last year a large majority of parliament voted to stop overfishing. the member states refused to discuss this. now it is the turn of parliament to keep up. we do not authorize overfishing. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i think it is very important that we regulate the criteria for access to the european union for fishery products, because the european union has a large market for fishery and aquaculture products. the figures have already been mentioned: with the import of these products, we represent a quarter of the total global market and we are over 60% dependent on imported seafood for our consumption. that is why i support the engström report, because the honourable member stresses that imported fishery products must meet the same requirements as products from the european union. we must create a level playing field and this report is an important step towards a balance between eu and non-eu producers. as far as labelling is concerned, we really must do better than that. so far only a small group of products have been labelled, whereas we should be properly informing consumers about all fishery and aquaculture products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. well, we are doing a good job of it and that is why we are also supporting the report by mr aguilera.
thank you, chairman. i would like to see a debate here in the european parliament, commissioner, on what we would like to see in the long term in agricultural policy, and not go into details. what i do not want, for example, is that the agricultural budget is still necessary to provide a certain income for the farmer and that the agricultural budget is spent on subsidizing land ownership. i would like to see farmers standing on their own two feet, keeping their own trousers on, and the money from the agricultural budget actually being invested in the business of the sector to meet the future in this changing world. i want us to be able to deal with price fluctuations, to deal with crop failures, but also to have the sector provide solutions to combat climate change, to reduce environmental impact, to preserve biodiversity and landscape elements. the world around us is changing. the farmers want to move forward. now the european parliament.
the average age in the agricultural sector is high, above average, and only 6% of those working in the agricultural sector are under 35. however, lowering the average age is not an end in itself. i am concerned that the agricultural sector will still be attractive for people to work in. we are not going to solve this by giving young farmers more direct income support, direct income support paid for by cutting the direct income support of the other farmers. is that fair? older farmers also work hard every day to produce sufficient and good food. no, it can only do so by making the sector more competitive, more innovative and by ensuring that the sector comes up with solutions to climate and environmental problems. i think there are two ways of doing that. through technical solutions such as big data, solar panels, precision agriculture and ecological innovations such as soil health improvement, breeding, and the use of insects to control pests.
mr president, we have a very successful programme here tonight. the so-called cef programme covers not only transport but also energy and telecommunications. i think we have proved in the last period that this is one of the best investment programmes the european union has ever known. this is not a question of subsidies or transfer expenditure, but of sound investment in the future of the european union itself. this debate tonight, mr president, is intended to give commissioner bulc the final push to keep that cef programme going and to extend what my colleague mr marinescu said as far as possible. this is really about the future of the eu and it is more than worthwhile to have a debate on it at this late hour tonight.
president, 180 billion a year is needed for the transition to a sustainable economy. yeah, that's a lot of money, but that money is there, just in the wrong place. one million is provided by banks as loans to the fossil fuel industry, apart from the many billions that go to the arms industry, land grabbing and other practices. it has to be sustainable. that's not the case with quarterly capitalism, where only the next quarter's profit matters and banks and other financial institutions don't look beyond their nose. it must be different and it can be different, by radically improving the rules of the game, by rewarding good behaviour and punishing bad behaviour and by giving clear responsibility to traders, investors and banks. i therefore hope that the commission and the member states will take up the recommendations contained in the report. we'll have that 180 billion together, and we'll avoid having the 2008 crisis in a completely different way. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation and for this excellent report.
president, the world around us is changing and it is therefore good that the european union is investing in new priorities, such as the protection of external borders, tackling or mitigating climate change, ensuring greater security, cyber security. but as with any budget: when you're making it, you have to make choices. so if you need more money for something, you'll have to cut back somewhere else. i think it's very important that we start looking critically at the old priorities, that we start reforming them, and that we can free up money to start investing in the new priorities again. what i also think is important is that we look at how the money is being spent and whether it actually produces results. i think it is a missed opportunity that these two aspects are totally ignored in this resolution of the european parliament. the cuts proposed by the european commission are being reversed. everything must be left as normal as possible, and extra money is foolishly asked for. that may be the easiest way, but that is not my policy and i will not support it.
rapporteur. – madam president, after 27 months of hard work we are here today to vote on the revision of the posting of workers directive, and therefore we are voting on a very important value for europe, that all workers deserve equal treatment and that there are no first and second class workers in europe anymore. up to this day, we see colleagues on construction sites, in agriculture, in shipyards, and many more sectors, being turned into competitors, not because they want to be, but because some are less expensive for their employers than others. with this new posting directive this will change. we will put an end to both the undercutting of wages and the inhumane situations we sometimes see when it comes to lodging, and we can put an end to unfair competition between those companies that play by the rules and those who bend the rules to their own benefit. therefore, i am grateful for the courage and the political will of so many, because otherwise we would not have ended up here today. first of all, i want to mention commissioner thyssen. i think she feels in her bones that the situation that workers are currently facing is unfair. secondly, i would like to thank all ministers of the member states who really aimed at reaching a fair compromise during the concluding negotiations under the bulgarian presidency, and if you allow me, i would like to single out my colleague and former dutch social affairs minister lodewijk asscher. but without the good cooperation of elisabeth morin-chartier, without the shadow rapporteurs, without the committee on employment and social affairs, without all the meps involved, and of course without all the staff, we would not have made these steps towards a fairer european labour market. it is only together that we can curb the race to the bottom when it comes to wages, working conditions and social security systems. undercutting wages and unfair competition leads to resentment from citizens, and this has to stop. i think the revision is beneficial not only to all european workers and to all honest companies, but it is also good for the european project as a whole. the freedom of movement of workers should become a right of workers again, and with this new directive we accomplish this. workers’ rights are explicitly protected. so instead of being competitors, colleagues can become colleagues again when today we vote in favour. we can ensure a fairer labour market and we can turn the slogan ‘equal pay for equal work at the same workplace’ into reality. with this step i think we are also taking a big leap towards a social europe, to which we are committed under the social pillar. today it is up to us to put an end to the exploitation of posted workers and to ensure equal pay for equal work at the same workplace for all.
i want a fair european labour market. a labour market where people who cross the border are not exploited, but are given what they are entitled to. a labour market where the fraudulent companies that abuse the freedom of movement through sham structures and letterbox companies are also dealt with. and a job market where we end unfair competition and displacement. to do that, we need two things: strict, fair rules and good enforcement. in the area of these strict and fair rules, we are taking a very important step today, because for the first time we are clearly establishing in legislation that the provision of a service is always temporary and always of short duration, that collective agreements apply to all employees and that rotational posting is unacceptable. there is still a lot of work to be done, but the legislation we are adopting here today is a very good step towards a genuine, fair european labour market.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i think it is worth emphasizing once again that the free movement of workers is also a workers' right. workers have the right to seek an economic future if they cannot find it directly in their own environment. but workers also have the right to equal treatment and not to be exploited. workers have the right to work in companies which are actually willing to play by the rules. and if i am happy about this proposal, it is partly because we have stated at the outset of the proposal that the rules are also intended to protect workers. it is about the free market and also about the protection of workers. i think we have tried to take account of all the different interests and to put forward a balanced proposal. there are people who have said in the debate: there are other problems in the labour market. yes, that's true, there are more problems in the labor market. but there are other proposals which are being discussed here in parliament. i'm calling the social security coordination. i call the european labour authority. i'm referring to the discussion of the employment contract. we have a lot on our plate until the next election. but first things first, let's send an important signal with this vote: equal pay for equal work at the same place of work. europe has no first- or second-class workers. everyone deserves equal treatment.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. mr president, i call on rule 59.3 to vote on the amendments tabled in plenary now, before the compromise text is put to the vote. my group would like to see a majority vote on this request. the text of the north sea plan allows for overfishing and is therefore contrary to the development objectives of the united nations. the plan is far too far removed from the mandate given by parliament in september. international environmental organizations are even calling for a vote against this plan. i ask for your support, ladies and gentlemen, to save this fisheries plan and, above all, to save the species of the north sea. say no to overfishing.
i missed my time, mr president, because i was in a shadow meeting on my eu-china report, so i am grateful that you have given me a little more time. i stand here with a heavy heart because of european policy in the middle east: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i am rational enough to reject the european quest for good relations with the islamic republic of iran. see the destabilizing military advance of tehran in the middle east, see also the close ties of tehran with the terrorist organizations hezbollah and hamas. what happened in gaza will be applauded in tehran. are they serving european security interests in the region, as the high representative says? i am completely morally opposed to the european policy which does not fully acknowledge the international legitimacy of israel's naked existence in the face of the ayatollah regime, which is not only rhetorically but in fact threatening the jewish state and its citizens. on 20 june the parents and brother of israeli soldier hadar goldin, who was killed by hamas, will come to brussels. their heart's desire: return of his body to israel for a dignified burial. i'm counting on european humanitarian aid.
in a letter, a brussels square full of empty shoes 4 500 in total symbolized the number of victims in the gaza strip since 2008 on monday afternoon. the whole world is looking at israel and palestine again, including the european foreign ministers who met that day to discuss the heightened tensions. protests were expected in the run-up to the 70th anniversary of the state of israel. and without compromising the long history and complexity of the problem, the disproportionate violence on the israeli side is unheard of. shooting at demonstrators who do not pose an acute threat is unacceptable and further encourages escalation. an independent investigation into the violence is desirable. both sides have an obligation to their citizens to (return) to the negotiating table, because only a two-state solution can end this decades-long conflict. that means putting an end to settlement policy, inciting violence and refraining from unilateral action.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, at the moment we most need to strengthen rules-based trade in the multilateral system, our friends across the atlantic are breaking with american and transatlantic trends, making the us an unpredictable partner, and this plays into the hands of those who are seeking governance and trade models contrary to those of liberal democracies. so where we would ideally cooperate to address steel dumping onto the global market, the trump administration has used the illegitimate argument of national security to slap tariffs on european steel and aluminium. it has pulled section 232 from the cold war era at a time that no one should long to return to. not only does the invoking of this section hurt our shared ability to solve problems, it also hurts the transatlantic relation. i share the commissioner’s assessment that these us measures are against wto rules. we need to push for permanent exemption and support you in imposing rebalancing measures if the eu is forced to do so. what is certainly not appropriate is to pressure the eu into negotiations with the us on broader trade arrangements and to defrost ttip under these circumstances. sure there’s a lot we can talk about, but not with these tariffs hanging over our heads or with a metaphorically loaded gun pointed at us. this is the moment for strong, united european leadership – that means including all member states – leadership towards trade that benefits all, and of course, this means standing against unfair trade practices, and i’m glad to hear some colleagues in this house who used to want to blow up the trade rules themselves now standing here to defend them. so there might be a little bit of a silver lining in all of this very, very troubling situation.
the european parliament, in its report on schengen, is in favour of open borders and therefore against security. like the european commission, parliament does not want to hear criticism of illegal border crossings and is blind to their criminal consequences. even after 1,200 attacks in one night, parliament has not opened its eyes. the arrival of huge numbers of illegal migrants has led to the reintroduction of border controls, including in germany, and rightly so. even mrs merkel - the ace of multiculturalism - seems to be shocked by the rapes and the crime, and border controls have not been abolished. if even merkel wants fewer illegals, how is it that this european parliament is blind to the misery that the open borders have brought and shows no compassion for the women affected?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after dramatic changes in global developments as well as trade flows, it is high time our trade defence instruments are reformed to be fit for purpose. as christofer fjellner said, it has been a long time coming. we, in europe, remain open for business and committed to rules-based trade without being naive or defenceless vis—a—vis blatant violations that cheat our citizens. we need one method to assess substantial market distortions, whoever may be suspected of engaging in such unfair practices. of course, we must be wto compliant and lead by example in the trade measures that we apply ourselves, and i’m glad we have positioned the eu properly by this modernisation. this house has focused on the transparency, predictability and efficiency of the new rules, and has zoomed in on the particular needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. yes, we have considered importers and exporters and not just listened to the voices that shouted the loudest. it’s essential that europe leads in promoting rules-based trade globally, ensuring that trade rules and trade flows benefit everyone – again, without being naive. this package fits well with the discussion about screening foreign direct investments; it’s really the other side of trade defence instruments. we need protection without protectionism, and i think we show how it can be done.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and for the fact that he has been able to give us a very clear and precise answer to the questions which have been raised. i have to say that i am rather disappointed by your super liberal speech, because the real question people are asking is not how well the multinationals are doing. the real question people ask is: who has the power in europe? are they the heads of government, is it parliament or are they the multinationals and the big financial institutions? if you look at the developments of the last days, weeks, in italy, you see that the financial markets also have a lot of political influence. if you say 'lower taxes', we see that the multinationals still have a lot of influence on you on a daily basis. it is surprising that we are now receiving the right advice on tax avoidance from the president of the commission, mr juncker, because given the previous discussions and mr juncker's personal involvement, we had a different expectation. but he's right. this is precisely the point on which the citizens of europe are most concerned. if you, as heads of government, let yourselves be completely controlled by multinationals, by big financial institutions, by banks, what can you expect? then people will become fearful, then they will indeed become victims of extremist groups, especially on the right. i think there is a factor that i have not really heard you talk about. that is the growing inequality in europe. okay, in luxembourg, the income is high. but i can tell you that in a lot of member states the disparity between the rich and the poor is increasing every day, and they see that in the european union stories like yours are circulating that we should reduce taxes for the multinationals. how do you think that's going to play out in the rough neighborhoods, in the cities? how do you think that will affect the young people in southern europe who are out of work? how do you think that will affect older people in greece who barely have a pension left? that is harsh language, that is language that undoubtedly plays into the hands of populists in europe. the european union has a role to play in this respect: and we need to tackle inequality, as organizations like the oecd say, as organizations like the imf say. if you do that, if you take responsibility as heads of government, then you are doing the best you can, also with a view to the european elections. i think that's a little bit of a stretch. you're not the only one. we have a prime minister in the netherlands, mark rutte, who is no doubt a good friend of yours, who has had to admit that under pressure from the multinationals the dividend tax is being abolished. a measure that nobody understands, that does not do the economy any good, but that does benefit the friends of the shareholders and the multinationals who represent them elsewhere in the world. this means that the ordinary people are faced with higher vat and have fewer and fewer social benefits. and then mr rutte says, as you do: reducing taxes. i would like to see this become a theme in the council of heads of government and that, instead of serving the multinationals and the banks, the citizens of europe, and especially those who are in difficulty, are put back at the centre. you are a european one day, and otherwise you are just an extension of the multinationals.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, the future of europe will be bright after the collapse of the eu, and we are now witnessing the death struggle of this failed project. we see it in the elimination of the freedom of speech and the demonisation of political opponents and the acceleration with regard to the eu army. we see it in the acceptance of state violence against the people of catalonia and the opposition against democratic governments of poland and hungary and the sabotage of brexit. we see it in the creation of an enemy image of russia and of the united states of america, a long-standing ally. these are all rearguard actions of a union which already failed. turning the eu into a soviet-style empire will not avert its inevitable end, and it’s already showing widening cracks. it’s a union that consists of irresponsible liberals in the west and of realists in the east; of dictating money-suppliers in the north and suppressed receivers in the south. it’s a union of happy migrants that profit from our welfare state and miserable citizens who are just good enough to pay the bill but are silenced about their grievances. this union creates more problems than it solves. we have seen a debt crisis, a migrant crisis and now a crisis in political freedoms. what started as a project to progress peace through trade has deranged into a suppressive, totalitarian instrument of a globalist elite. the last fundament off this bankrupt union is the unlimited printing of money by the european central bank. imagine the shock when italy was about to install a eurosceptic government, and there again the eu showed its ugly face of dictatorship. it denied the italian people their rightful government. this union that has sold his soul to investors in the middle east cannot last and should not last. turkey is turning into an islamic society and erdogan is overturning the achievements towards a secular state. journalists, professors, military personnel are being jailed. christian property is being seized. genocide is being committed on the poorest part of the population. and firmly stands the eu to protect? no, not the values of human life, not the freedom of the secular state and rule of law. no, it stands firmly to let turkey become a member of the eu. in the uk, muslim grooming gangs have abused hundreds of children. they were abused, raped, some even killed, and although the authorities knew about it, they were reluctant to act – and when it finally blew out in the open, they tried to cover it up. in germany, sweden, the netherlands, hundreds of young girls are victim of grooming gangs – and where is the protection of our children? where is the outrage in the eu? it’s not there. the eu does not and will not protect our children; instead it sacrifices them. the eu elite welcomes these child rapists and still does. honest and strong men like tommy robinson are silenced and thrown in jail to be murdered by inmates. that is the true character of the eu. the eu has no right to a future. the eu has no future. the future of europe is to the nation states and its people.
mr president, indeed, mr verhofstadt will be slapped on the wrist. mr bettel, thank you very much for your speech. i agreed with a lot of it, but not everything. you said that institutional talks are boring. i actually fundamentally disagree because institutional talks are about who has the power. how can citizens influence and decide in the european union? how can they hold their representatives to account? but it also determines the ability of the european union to act, and we have seen that intergovernmental europe is dead. intergovernmental europe is not able to respond to migration flows, to trump, to the financial crisis, to conflicts in the world, and it is not able to ensure that the rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld in all the member states. one final remark. please ask your colleagues to understand one thing. yes, there are eurosceptics or anti-eu people in europe, but there is also a vast majority of people who are actually supportive of the european union. let’s stop serving only the eurosceptic voices and also represent the people who wholeheartedly support european integration and make their voices heard in the debate as well.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, that is very generous and that’s good, because i’ve got a lot to say and i was trying to squeeze it all into two minutes. the first thing i was going to say was that if i were – let’s take a random example – a russian oligarch and i had some criminal money that i would like to park somewhere, then i would be really delighted to hear the response of the council and the commission here today. because while we are very busy building ‘fortress europe’ for people who want to come here to work, we’re actually rolling out the red carpet for certain other people who want to come here, get residency permits and citizenship for themselves and for their family. this is not just about state facilitated corruption and money—laundering, and i repeat that – state facilitated corruption and money—laundering – as that’s what we’re talking about, but we’re also talking about importing a security risk. i don’t even need to mention what’s going on in moscow—on—thames, where russian oligarchs are bumping each other off apparently, but we’ve also seen that there is a very real risk for people who are investigating this, like the journalist daphne caruana galizia, and also like whistle—blowers who are exposing these practices, because – let’s be honest – this is just a big scam. this is not just in some countries that were mentioned by you, madam commissioner, which got a red flag near their names. even in a country like mine, we have so—called investor schemes and it all looks nice at the front door. but if you look at the back door there’s one big weak spot and that’s the screening of the applicants, because we know that we are dealing with countries of origin which are known for their corrupt systems. how are we going to verify if the candidates are legit, if we can trust them, if the money is not criminal money? how are we going to verify that this is not serious? therefore i very much agree with the proposals by tanja fajon. we do need european standards, european rules. we need a common scheme. and we do need the european commission to bring forward legislative proposals, because i don’t want to hear anymore ‘we have no competence’. you know, you’re legislating in all sorts of areas, concluding agreements where there is no legal basis either. and this is a very serious matter because there are people here who buy passports, not on the black market but legally from governments. i’m very curious to hear from the european commission, because you say you are closely monitoring the situation and there will be a report in full, but i really would like to hear a little bit more about it, because it’s become a very, very urgent matter since the situation in malta last year. we also need more transparency from the member states because it’s just not acceptable anymore, with everything that’s going on, that member states are saying ‘oh no, this is a national matter, we’re not giving out any information on this’. this is about people coming into our european union, getting eu citizenship, benefiting from all the rights that eu citizens and eu residents have. we have a right to know. so the argument that this is a national competence to cover up criminal activities is simply not good enough anymore. we need harmonised rules. we need harmonised standards for the screening procedures. we need more transparency. we need more information. but, finally, i also think that we need to stop applying double standards because, as i already mentioned, people who want to come to the european union to work are treated like criminals, and those who want to come here and park their criminal money are received like kings. if you’re an eu citizen affected by brexit, for example, because you happen to live in a country that you do not have the citizenship of, then you’re in big difficulty, but if you’re a russian oligarch, or a chinese oligarch, then you’re fine, if you have money. we need to stop applying double standards. this is something that we cannot explain to our citizens anymore. our citizens don’t care about national competence or eu competence. they want to know that eu citizenship is for eu citizens and not for criminals. (applause)
president, eu citizenship is, in the commission's words, the essence of the common european project. then you, commissioner, must be as hurt as i am that in some member states citizenship is simply sold out. that rich russians and chinese give some money - often with dubious backgrounds - register at a petrol station, for example in malta, and then become european citizens. that goes against everything that europe stands for. we've been asking for attention for years. it's time to get real. there are three things that need to happen. first, a ban on the sale of passports. secondly, a real study of how many of these residence permits are sold, under what conditions they are sold and how the source of that money is controlled. thirdly, following that inquiry, clear, strict european minimum rules for issuing residence permits to foreign investors. residence permits and european passports are a privilege and not a commodity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission for the proposal in which resceu is placed at the core. we all realise that this might be necessary when there is a cross-border natural disaster like a forest fire. think of portugal and spain. at that moment, spain might have been reluctant to jump into portugal, so there is a need for european action; that is very clear. therefore, we are very happy with the proposal and that is what we will support. the slight problem with what we are doing now in parliament – and that is why we were critical in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) – is that for the resceu, we are now broadening the scope on what it should work towards, even going into the locations of terrorist attacks, etc. i find that dangerous, not because i am against it necessarily, but we know that this is going to be a tough discussion with the council, especially with more northern european countries. where i come from, they will be critical of this proposal. if you are starting to broaden the scope of resceu now, they will see this as a hidden agenda to create a european task force, which is not the case. we are trying to plug a gap that exists. keep it restricted to natural disasters for now. let’s make this happen so that we can see that it works. that is why we have put in some split votes in order to get the stuff about terrorist attacks out of it, because that takes the focus away from where it should be, and that is making sure that resceu can function.
president. - mr president, every year there is a massive fraud in the reversal of vehicle mileage. especially in eastern and southern europe, odometer fraud seems to be the rule rather than the exception. the netherlands has had its own system for reducing fraud for a number of years, and with success. the sale of vehicles in the netherlands is hardly a matter of turning the clock back. we do not need any more european interference. it is up to the member states themselves to solve this problem. the netherlands has proved that it can. why should this parliament impose new directives on the dutch motorist? this is another example of the needless european regulatory drive. i would call on parliament and also on the european commission to leave the member states alone. often, more european involvement is not the solution to a problem, but rather part of the problem.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). this is unacceptable. we are losing together about 9 billion euros in europe to this fraud. this is a literally cross-border problem, because more and more cars are being traded from abroad. it is good that the commissioner has listened to the proposals of this parliament, but please do not reinvent the wheel. there are good systems in the netherlands and belgium. they're effective and proven. just make sure they're copied and spread throughout europe. let us not invent any more brussels rules, but simply copy a proven system and work with your colleagues on the internal market to ensure that one of these systems is implemented throughout europe as soon as possible. kees is ready.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his introduction. i have to say that, looking at the severity of this topic, i do hope in your answers that we will get more specific. i also want to say to the epp that this is not a debate generally on turkey. this is a very specific debate on ipa funds that were used, and we are very concerned about what happened to those funds. let me continue in dutch. voorzitter, bijna 36 miljoen euro: dat is het bedrag dat de eu in 2011 bijdroeg aan de koop van pantservoertuigen in turkije voor een effectievere grensbewaking. laat ik vooropstellen dat turkije voldoende redenen heeft om haar buitengrenzen goed te monitoren. we kunnen het ons allemaal voorstellen. maar toen de cobra ii-voertuigen in 2011 werden geleverd, waren ze voorzien om ingezet te worden aan de oostgrens. de oorlog in syrië was nog niet begonnen, er was nog geen muur gebouwd aan de zuidgrens. anno 2018 is die situatie drastisch veranderd. de afgelopen maanden zijn er verschillende berichten gekomen van zowel mensenrechtenorganisaties als journalisten, dat mede met de inzet van de pantservoertuigen tientallen vluchtelingen zijn beschoten – soms met de dood tot gevolg – tijdens een poging de turkse grens over te steken. (de voorzitter onderbreekt de spreker door een probleem met de vertolking)in het contract dat in 2011 is gesloten, staat dat de pantservoertuigen enkel ingezet mogen worden voor surveillance. mocht turkije daarvan af willen wijken, dan dient zij daarvoor schriftelijk toestemming te vragen aan de europese commissie. vandaar dan ook de vragen aan commissaris hahn, met de schokkende verhalen van onder andere human rights watch in de hand: heeft turkije de commissie om toestemming gevraagd om de pantservoertuigen te voorzien van warmtegevoelige camera's? heeft de eu een eigen onafhankelijk onderzoek gestart naar de bevindingen? ik hoor dat niet. en zo niet: bent u van plan om dat alsnog onmiddellijk te doen? de pijnlijke conclusie zou namelijk weleens kunnen zijn dat de eu impliciet medeverantwoordelijk is voor zeer ernstige mensenrechtenschendingen aan de turks-syrische grens. het feit dat alle fracties in het parlement op verzoek van mijn collega schaake en mijzelf hebben ingestemd met een debat over dit onderwerp toont aan hoe serieus wij dit nemen in het parlement. dit moet echt tot op de bodem worden uitgezocht. de middelen van het instrument voor pretoetredingssteun (ipa) zijn bedoeld ter ondersteuning van een kandidaat-lidstaat om eu-normen op allerlei terreinen over te nemen. van eu-geld pantservoertuigen financieren – zelfs als het geen militaire doelen heeft – vind ik op zich al dubieus, maar als dan óók nog eens blijkt dat de cobra ii worden gebruikt om met grof geweld te voorkomen dat vluchtelingen een grens kunnen oversteken, dan gaan bij mij alle alarmbellen af. (de spreker gaat in op een "blauwe kaart"-vraag (artikel 162, lid 8, van het reglement))
blue-card answer. – i think, as rapporteur on turkey, having drafted a report every year, which your group supported with a large majority, i think it’s clear that we are concerned about the situation in turkey. but i just want to make clear that we have here an oral question asking the commission about investigating its responsibility about how eu-financed money was spent in turkey. the conclusion could be that actually we are implicitly co—responsible for very serious human rights violations in the country. i just hope that in this debate we don’t turn it into a general debate on turkey, but we ask the commission to answer specifically the various serious allegations that are in the media and reported by human rights organisations.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, firstly, we are here today to discuss the eu pre-accession funding to turkey and how it was used. so i am interested to learn from the commission how much money the eu has, from 2014 until today, provided to turkey, not just under ipa ii, but basically broadly during those years. this would provide important context to the amount of money we spent. secondly, we requested this debate because it was reported that the turkish military has used eu-funded cobra vehicles to shoot at and forcefully push syrian refugees back across the border. now, if confirmed, eu funds would have been illegally used and the eu could be indirectly complicit in human rights violations. so has an independent investigation into these allegations been undertaken and, if confirmed, what will be the consequences? would turkey only have to pay back the money or would parts of the accession funding to turkey be suspended as a result? in other words, what kind of accountability mechanisms are there? because what we know is that the commission has often been hesitant to use conditionality. it took amendments from us in this house to the 2017 budget to make sure that funds to turkey were decreased as a direct response to the significant backsliding of the rule of law and democracy. freezing and redirecting funds should be a proper policy option. what is also clear is that there is a lack of transparency, monitoring and clarity on objectives when we look at funding. no one seems to know exactly how much money is spent, where, why and to what effect. the court of auditors – and our colleague mentioned this – drew similar conclusions in its may report and i am actually still waiting for answers to my written questions about this report. the commissioner is proposing new plans for eu pre-accession funding on 14 june as part of the broader budget package and of course we are happy in this house to push for making eu spending more transparent, accountable and effective. so we need to learn how funds will be governed and how parliament can apply its scrutiny. we certainly will not want to see a repetition of the statements on migration and the hastily assembled trust funds over which this scrutiny is lacking.
mr president, i am the fourteenth speaker. at the beginning the commissioner made a contribution saying that this debate was actually based on a misunderstanding. i still wonder why this misunderstanding has not been cleared up when the european commission is financing turkey to buy two cobra vehicles, a kind of light tank which can also be very easily fitted with a rocket launcher. by the way, those cobras are made by a turkish defense company, so we're funding a turkish defense company for turkish light tanks that can be equipped with rocket launchers. then what's the misunderstanding? was there a misunderstanding in 2011 when we did that, or was it a misunderstanding when the launchers were actually put up there? if we know that turkey is shooting refugees at the border and pushing them back into syria, then i do think that we have a huge misunderstanding here. but it's not just him in those tanks.
in writing. recently, the story of kenyan nice leng'ete went viral in the media. she was able to end the ritual of female circumcision in the masai community in kenya and tanzania. however, these and other practices of female domination are still widespread in the world. the european union also has a lot to do in terms of gender equality, such as closing the pay gap. nevertheless, we're doing quite well on gender equality worldwide. but instead of sitting back, we must not forget the rights of women and girls in other parts of the world. violence against women must stop. they should not be married off as children to an unchosen man. they must be given the opportunity to occupy the same positions as men. only then can they develop fully and use their talents. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we continue to actively promote women's rights both within and outside the union.
mr president, the future belongs to the young. it is a proverb we know in almost all european countries. but is that saying still relevant today? youth unemployment is still alarmingly high in many european countries. the number of young people living in poverty or social exclusion has increased. in the united kingdom, a whole generation has been denied a european future against their will. that is why the debate tonight is so important. that is why i am pleased that the european commission has proposed to double the budget for the erasmus programme. it is very good that young people are a priority and that we are focusing on all young people. it is also right that we in this parliament should say that crossborder cooperation and crossborder opportunities are an essential part of youth policy. i myself come from a beautiful border region and i am sure that there are also many opportunities for young people there. opportunities that are still too often missed. we must ensure that work and skills are better integrated and that we dare to look beyond borders. because whereas a young unemployed person may have difficulty finding work in his own country, there are always opportunities on the other side of the border. we should want to learn our neighborhood languages again. we need to work even better and more closely together in border regions and we need to ensure that young people have access to information, funding and professional guidance. this is a task for young people themselves, for schools, for guidance counsellors, for local and national authorities, but certainly also for us here in europe.
mr. president, there's no guarantee you'll be able to pay your rent tomorrow. no guarantee that you'll be able to work tomorrow and uncertainty about accident insurance at work. nobody wants uncertainty, and yet there are employers - in my country, the netherlands, for example - who are increasingly addicted to flexible working. on the one hand we see the money mountains of multinationals like mcdonald's and uber and their shareholders growing, and on the other hand they are not paying into the collective benefits and saddling their staff with insecure contracts. and with that, the deliveroo of this world will become the dagobert ducks of europe. work no longer seems to be a guarantee against poverty, and therefore the economic burden must be distributed differently and more fairly. increase taxes on capital, raise wages, as the imf also recommends, and finally put an end to uncertain contracts, because uncertain jobs eat people.
author. – mr president, while human rights in iran are systematically violated, european leaders have most attention for the rescue of the jcpoa. preserving the nuclear deal is important, but we must be able to address human rights as well as iran’s toxic role in the middle east. dual nationals are used by iran’s rulers as political pawns. they suffer in prisons without access to lawyers, doctors and eu diplomats. often they are forced into confessions, after which torture and possibly the death penalty can follow. the fact that eu citizens are seen as only iranians when they still have that nationality tells us all we need to know about the countless iranians and how they are treated unjustly in prisons. we call for their release, and we appeal to high representative / vice-president mogherini and member state leaders not to allow talks on the nuclear agreement to overshadow our responsibility to address the grave human rights violations in the islamic republic of iran.
author. – mr president, despite charm offensives by mohammed bin salman, saudi arabia is showing its true colours by arresting prominent women’s rights activists, right when the driving ban that these women fought for is promised to be lifted. then, state-linked media labelled these women as traitors, and they have since been charged with serious crimes. this sends a chilling signal to all human rights defenders in the kingdom and beyond. it is also a wake-up call for those who still needed it. it will be unsustainable to repress the population and women in such a systematic way, as happens in saudi arabia every day. the promise of reforms under the 2030 strategy has been tarnished, and we should hold saudi arabia to its acts, not just its beautiful promises made alongside celebrities in foreign countries. the release of women’s rights activists should be the first step and would be a first important step, as we urge, to grant basic rights to all people in saudi arabia. we will not be impressed with some small gestures.
president. - we are discussing today the abuses committed by aid organizations such as oxfam. in recent months, stories have emerged of perverted sex parties in haiti. oxfam staff have behaved scandalously there, at the expense of the european taxpayer, among others. since 2010, hundreds of millions of euros have been sent to haiti. it is only since the beginning of this year that we have begun to get a picture of how that money has been spent, and that picture is not pretty, i can tell you. the scandal in haiti is not, unfortunately, isolated. for example, some oxfam staff who committed misconduct in haiti were found to have committed the same acts in chad a few years earlier. it's outrageous and unacceptable. oxfam is certainly no exception, for other organisations have also been the subject of scandals. take greenpeace, for example. two days ago, it was announced that as many as 44 former staff members from south america had dropped out of the school. several instances of undesirable behaviour and abuse are alleged to have occurred in recent years. the complainants were fired, the perpetrators were held to account. it's a disgrace. the list of examples of abuse is getting longer and longer. almost every charity has to deal with it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when it comes down to it, everything stays the same. each year, europe spends over 75 billion euros on development aid and related issues. of this, 10 billion will be given away by the european parliament. mr president, it is time to stop the shameless transfer of billions, the transfer of billions to corrupt dictatorial regimes and so-called aid organizations. this is despite the fact that there is little or no control of these expenditures and that the public has no idea what the money is being spent on. this has got to stop. development aid and all related expenditure should once again be the exclusive responsibility of the member states. each country must be able to decide for itself whether and, if so, how much money is to be transferred to the bottomless pit called development aid. mr president, as far as i and my party are concerned, the message is clear: we are not going to give a penny to corrupt dictatorial regimes and so-called aid organizations. people who have misbehaved should be dealt with harshly by the criminal justice system.
mr president, a good, fair and reliable pension system is one of the pillars of our modern welfare state. this goes beyond a government that simply provides benefits after retirement age. this means that citizens themselves are investing in a good income in their old age. the responsibility of the public authorities is to ensure that as much of the money earmarked for pensions as possible actually ends up there. it is not right to leave unnecessary money on the administrative line without providing an efficient solution. i therefore sincerely regret that the rapporteur, together with the negotiating team, has chosen to give the pension funds and the clearing houses only two years to find a solution to the clearing obligation. because it takes more time to do it right. failure to take that time will unfortunately lead to a good, sound and fair pension provision being compromised. i am therefore glad that this is only a parliamentary position: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope and indeed expect that the trialogue negotiations on this legislation will finally correct the mistake made by this parliament. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for their introductory remarks. but i think a special word of thanks today goes to my party colleague marian marinescu. this was a very sensitive issue and he has brought several difficult discussions with the shadow reporters to a successful conclusion. the safety of air transport is one of the most important subjects that the european parliament can discuss here today. on 17 may i myself visited easa in cologne with mr marinescu and other members of the european parliament. i am impressed by the agency's current mission and even more so by the tasks it will have in the future. easa also has a very good international reputation. it is not just the eu that is at stake, but also relations with the usa, china and south america on aviation safety. i think that we as the european parliament can be proud to have such an agency. now there's an extension of duty. it will not only be about aircraft and certification, but also about drones and soon also about the equipment at airports. these are all subjects that make aviation safety complete. the interesting question, of course, is: "is the united kingdom staying or not?" the uk cannot, of course, continue to be the only country to have aviation safety. so we'll have to see how things develop. thank you very much.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. the commission is also proposing to introduce new european rules on the use and registration of drones, new opportunities to use the specific knowledge of aviation inspectors across europe, and new tasks for the european aviation safety agency (easa) to intervene when aviation safety is threatened. but new rules, new opportunities and new tasks require cooperation between easa and different authorities in the european member states. i am therefore pleased that a european system is being set up to warn european airlines of dangerous routes. disasters like that of flight mh17 could thus be prevented in the future. but this requires a good working relationship between national intelligence services, aviation authorities, the european commission and easa. intelligence services will collect and share information about risks of flying over conflict zones. joint risk analyses shall be established to enable easa to provide timely warning of hazards to the european aviation industry. that, mr president, requires mutual trust and cooperation. this requires the conversion of paper rules into workable solutions. i therefore call on the member states to work together with easa and the european commission in a united and strong way. tomorrow we will put the new easa regulation to the vote, but safety calls for action today and every day to come. because the safety of passengers cannot be compromised. i never will.
thank you very much, mr president. in the netherlands we have a wonderful saying: "without transport, everything is at a standstill". road transport in the european union is a major economic factor. our economy is still very much based on road transport. if you look at the discussions on the mobility package this week, you know that road transport is very important for the european economy. but we all signed up to cop21 in december 2015, and we want the transport sector to be cleaner too. it shouldn't take too long. i agree with mrs bulc on that point. at the same time, clean trucks also bring innovation. it's not so bad that politics is giving a little push here and there to accelerate that innovation. in that respect, i would like to ask for a moment's attention to the city. if i understand correctly, our buses are also covered by these heavy vehicles, and bus pollution is really a very big issue in various cities. finally, mr president, i am glad that the trialogue also resolved the debate on data and industrial property. i think that european industry was right to fear that too much access to data could lead to industrial theft. i understand that was settled in the trialogue.
thank you, mr president. thank you, chief. the european commission is being pushed hard. and the commission is pulling us forward at full speed, while italy is trying to pull us back in time. the proposals to create new european pools or to pay off debts directly to the neighbours have been launched at a rapid pace. and sometimes it seems like this house only has two gears: either full ahead or hard on the brakes. but as far as i'm concerned, there's a third. and that's the option where we hold ourselves to the agreements that we've made with each other. that's the option where we make our economies resilient, and we remain a major economic bloc of the world. that is the option, as far as i am concerned, where we do not send each other the bill, but where we trade with each other. making appointments is actually very easy. but only if we hold ourselves to those agreements, then, in my view, is there room to share those risks in confidence. that's the order as far as i'm concerned: we must make agreements, we must keep our agreements, we must sow trust and reap prosperity.
mr president, before we consider deepening emu, we must first honour the agreements we have made. the provisions of the stability and growth pact have been violated 150 times. this is absurd! that undermines the credibility of the eurozone. i support the position of the dutch government, which wants to see rules respected and risks reduced. and there is another dark cloud hanging over the euro. the new government of conte wants to spend a lot more than it takes in. so the towering public debt of 130% of gdp in italy will continue to rise. the position of the euro is thus in danger. the ecb and the commission must stop these plans. at the same time, i say: the european union must show solidarity with italy and also with greece. these are the countries that are now receiving the most migrants, and many member states are looking the other way. this is unacceptable! europe must take part in organising the reception and countries which do not do so must pay for it.
thank you, mr president. it is good that so many members have come together for this important debate on the euro. because the euro must change to survive, that much is clear. the voters are also aware of this. thrift in bad times leads to worse times, with greece being the most painful example. but start at the beginning. eliminate the stupid and terrible deficit rules. let countries take responsibility for the development of spending and debt. it 's simple . with a lot of debt, there's little room, and vice versa. and then there is the need for a safety net, for countries and for banks, a european monetary fund. but let the euro be ours. choose a democratic anchoring of the fund. choose a eurozone parliament with national and european parliamentarians. responsibility, solidarity, democratisation, that change is needed to make the euro work for the benefit of us all.
thank you, mr president. education is a matter for the member states and must remain so. but there is still a world to be won in terms of cooperation between member states in this area. and it is local initiatives that can make the difference. if i look in my own region: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, such as exchange projects between dutch and welsh schools, teachers who work temporarily in a german school to learn the language, crossborder internship projects and so on. that is the added value of cross-border education. and we do not have to arrange that in brussels, but we can facilitate and encourage it and i am glad that this house is endorsing it. there is a clear european challenge, for example, when it comes to children of travelling parents such as carnival entrepreneurs or circus performers. we must ensure that these people have access to high-quality education for their children directly via the computer, wherever they are in europe. there are already a number of member states where this is a possibility. but please let us make this possible for all the children of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after the g7, president trump left not a millimetre of doubt about his opposition to his main allies. anyone who was not yet convinced now knows the eu needs foreign and security autonomy. our strength is tested in the process of keeping the spirit of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) alive. the eu has chosen, with international partners, to bind and verify iran’s nuclear programme through the international atomic energy agency (iaea), and our part of the deal is lifting sanctions. of course, we are committed to peace, diplomatic solutions and, first and foremost, that which we ourselves have signed up for. so to have this policy autonomy is key. certainly, to have the us choose to abandon one of the biggest diplomatic successes at times where these are few and with so much at stake is enough for us to absorb, and so we simply cannot accept that washington spells out which sanctions our european companies are bound by. i would be interested in what is possible to mitigate us extra territoriality without pushing private-sector risks into public institutions. at the same time, our autonomy must be clear in tehran. iranian leaders cannot and must not dictate what we in europe should do. iran itself must build confidence that they are committed to their part of the deal if they expect us to try and work hard to absorb the challenge of the us stepping back. i’m interested to learn a bit more about how conversations with china and russia are going, because the spotlight is so much on us. in previous debates, i have made clear that i believe that we have lost too much time focusing only on iran’s nuclear programme and not on the country’s toxic role in the middle east as well as the systematic human rights violations against the iranian people. i urge you to make sure the eu has a broad agenda in relation to iran and not to be trapped in the single issue of saving the deal, however important that may be.
thank you, mr president. i look forward to a rational and moral european policy against the islamic republic of iran in geopolitical terms, economic terms and moral terms. it is geopolitical, mr president. let the european union join the united states in taking action against iran's expansionist and destabilising course in the middle east. secondly, the economic aspect. let the eu not jeopardise its close financial, economic and trade relations with the us for comparatively weak relations with iran. moreover, we are not going to support the iranian revolutionary guard with its terrorist actions, internally and externally. it's immoral! the eu must not be blackmailed by nuclear weapons. that has been the case from the very beginning, from the beginning of the nuclear deal with the negotiations by zarif nota bene. and moreover, morally speaking, to pursue a policy of appeasement against a regime that terrorizes its own people and the region and wants to destroy israel; let the eu abandon this policy, because it is immoral.
madam president, if not the eu, then who would lead on protecting and promoting universal human rights in the world? in this room, during this debate, i doubt anyone questions the need to uphold values and principles. but looking at the practice, a more troubling picture emerges: ‘migration management’ or ‘countering terrorism’ are increasingly blanket excuses to turn a blind eye to the rights of people. and privatised law enforcement, where private companies are filtering what people can and cannot see online without oversight, is another area to watch out for. i think it is essential that we don’t fall into the trap of the short-term populistic objectives, also with an eye on the new mff. for europe, interests such as security and values such as human rights protection should never be traded off because they overlap. so i urge for more political leadership that is unequivocal and that is not traded away at difficult moments.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the challenge to ensure safety and security involves more and more technological components. we see attacks on critical infrastructure, electoral systems, and really matters of democracy and peace at stake. with this global phenomenon, it only makes sense that we engage in the defence of the global open internet and all its users at eu level, as an integral part of our foreign and defence policies. we must certainly avoid fragmentation of steps taken between member states. we need resilience of our networks, safety of devices, but also ways to attribute attacks when they do take place. this does not happen often enough, and if the rule of law should have meaning online there must be consequences to attacks. let’s also look at ourselves. the cybersecurity of the internet of things, the use of software vulnerabilities, and the commissioner mentioned the development of dual use technologies, but we are still exporting harmful ones to dictatorships and that cannot help our cybersecurity. the eu should lead on the basis of values and aspire to achieve global norms here too.
thank you. president, rapporteur and commissioner. it is good that we are looking at this issue again from the perspective of regional funds, because the big gains for people, growth and jobs are indeed in regions and cities, close to the people. that's where you can organize this circular economy. i was a rapporteur for the bio-based industry. the horizon 2020 framework programme has set aside eur 1 billion to drive this development. (the president interrupts the speaker because there is no finnish translation) the circular economy starts with nature and not with fossil resources. so i want to advocate for making a lot more products, like plastics, from biomaterials. secondly, for years, i've been organizing exhibitions of new materials for the public. people often ask themselves: where do you get something like that? moreover, commissioner, there is no european quality label for this. for example, in the netherlands you have "biobased content", in germany "din-certified" or in france "biobased vinçotte". but there is no european label that can tell citizens that products are bio-based. would you care to answer that? is it not true that we must work to make things clear to consumers so that they know where to buy, but also what they are buying? it's circular. it's no use talking about what's being thrown away in italy. we need to prevent waste from the agricultural industry, and we can do that. we're missing an opportunity there. i'd like your opinion on that. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group of the european right you are most welcome, mr rutte. we can just speak dutch here. we have excellent interpreters. they're having a hard time, but you'll never find better interpreters. the united kingdom has always acted as a constructive opposition in the european union, as a counter-force to the too often dominant german-french axis. but in berlin , there 's an old trauma: they never want to be dominant again. so ultimately, within that german-french axis, paris determines what's going to happen. that means, especially now with macron, even more europe. the united kingdom's exit from the european union will mean the loss of the country which was able to counterbalance it in a sober and constructive way. it is time for europe 2.0: mark rutte is coming in! as one of the longest-serving european heads of government, he is the right person to organise that counterbalance. timing is also very important. we're on our way to 2019: european elections, a new commission, negotiations on the multiannual budget and, of course, brexit. european politicians like macron, juncker and verhofstadt are on the verge of catching up. so now it is time for mark rutte to counterbalance, to take the scepter from the english and to organize that counterforce. the speech by mr rutte in berlin this spring provides a very good basis for that counterbalance. the same applies to cooperation within the eurozone, which he is trying to build up in a sober way with a number of nordic countries and austria. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. a humble and above all a serviceable europe that respects agreements and links. so also a modest budget, no eurozone becoming a transfer union, and a european union helping italy and greece with the migration issue. it is time for such a european union. mark rutte has to go to jail. if this is not done, the gap between the citizens and brussels, which is already wide, will become untenable.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. i would like to thank you, mr president, and also to welcome the prime minister of the netherlands, mr rutte, from the left party, my own group. as peter van dalen said , " the world is not enough . you speak dutch well here. that's because we have very good interpreters. they are in a very difficult situation because their working conditions are being further restricted and they are not even given the right to strike. our group is in solidarity with this and i hope that more and more groups will speak out in favour of the rights of interpreters. because this is about something bigger. if even in this parliament - which should be the home of democracy in europe - the working conditions and labour rights of people are no longer respected, if competition and market thinking are the only things that matter, then i am with mark rutte. because in your speech in berlin and in your speech here, the market is also central. even when it comes to security and the rule of law, you want to give companies space first. i think that's the wrong entrance. let's see what the market has been good for: in the netherlands, 10% of the population has two thirds of the income. the other 90% must be divided among the rest. on a global scale, 1% owns half the power. the other 99% must divide the rest. that is what the market does, in the netherlands, in europe and all over the world. we need to talk about that. what do you do for that 90%? the greens have said it too. where's the social aspect? what about honesty? taxation plays a role in this. we see that children have fewer opportunities than their parents had, that the future is less good for people. those are the things we have to deal with. equal pay for equal work, you said in berlin. you have not repeated that, but it is a real problem. we have made progress with the seconded workers, but they still have to pay the social security contributions and pensions of their country of origin. so there's not really equal pay for equal work. this week and at the last strasbourg session, truck and bus drivers were at the door. international road transport does not have equal pay for equal work. what do you do for that 90%? what do you do for them? and then there's the cultural side of things. we have nothing against entrepreneurship. that's good. that's good. but what we do have a problem with is people playing games with each other. what do we do to connect people? are we moving towards a society (even if it is a rule of law) where everyone is turned against each other? or are we reaching a society that connects? are we going beyond market thinking? trump is a frequent reference here. but what accounts for its popularity? he owes it to the steelworkers in detroit, who feel left out and victimized by globalization. the commission has also pointed this out. if you don't address that, you'll get the opposite of what you probably want, too. you'll have people fighting each other. you'll get insecurity. and we're not getting anywhere with that. one more comment on the 1%. you're in the 1%. they're also the big investors. those are the big multinationals. i would recommend that you take a look at investigate europe. that's a non-profit that's been putting on the map what blackrock is proposing as an investment company. blackrock has $6.3 trillion in assets under management. at this moment, blackrock is launching an attack on the collective pensions in europe. we should all have individual pensions. blackrock could make a lot of money off that. that's why it wants a pan-european pension product that you subscribe to per person. that's going the wrong way. i want a europe of solidarity. and i'd like to hear your vision of a europe of solidarity. i'll make you one suggestion. what if we regulate that market? let us add a social and green protocol to the european convention. the trade union movement has proposed this for the social aspect for years. as a green member of the right, you will probably agree to the adoption of a green protocol. so let's test everything for solidarity and sustainability and restrain the market. wouldn't that lead to a europe that is really connected, that is really stable and that prevents us from having a trump here in the future?
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i welcome mr rutte to this parliament. i guess we will see him quite often in the future when he has accepted the position of mr tusk as president of the european council. when we discuss the future of the eu, we most certainly must address the situation of the rule of law in the member states. the majority of this parliament has serious concerns about the rule of law in hungary, poland, malta and slovakia. therefore it has started the monitoring group on the rule of law. your party is a member of the alde group, and a colleague of yours in this parliament, ms in’t veld, presides over this monitoring group. i advise this monitoring group to take the netherlands as a reference case. in the netherlands, the prosecution doesn’t have the obligation to follow up on any reported offence. it is at the discretion of the prosecutor’s office whether to take action. therefore, millions of citizens in the netherlands see prosecution as a political tool. this was recently confirmed in a report by wodc, a scientific institution that advises the dutch government. the report stated that over the last decade there has been no prosecution of extreme—left violence. i will give you another example. last month, a group of rejected asylum seekers looking for a place to stay broke into a house near amsterdam, claimed the property as theirs and tried to chase away the inhabitants. although this attempt failed, the state prosecution didn’t want to take legal action, and they allowed this behaviour. to me it’s absolutely clear that applying the law to one group and letting another off the hook creates legal inequality. it breaks the rule of law. these are the netherlands of mr rutte and ms in’t veld of today. i have some serious advice for mr rutte with regard to his european ambitions. if you want an eu where the rule of law applies, start at home. and i quote: ‘get your house in order’, and have the prosecution take action against illegal activities in general, not just against so-called populists. a second issue i would like to address is illegal migration. the eu is in a complete deadlock on how to deal with illegal migrants. the eu has no solutions. it doesn’t close its borders; it doesn’t expel rejected asylum seekers; it doesn’t fight islamisation and radicalisation. so i urge mr rutte to distance himself from ms merkel’s ‘refugees welcome’ policies and endorse the visegrad approach. he could start by making it a criminal offence to help illegal migrants, rejecting asylum to migrants who enter via safe third countries, and making asylum seekers who go on holiday in their home country lose their right to stay. when you are president of the european council, recommend the whole package that we proposed yesterday to the member states. (applause)
thank you, chairman. mr. prime minister, you said: the eu must promise less and deliver more. i agree with that. but let's make it concrete. a large number of proposals from this parliament have been dealt with by the commission but are still stuck in the council. i would like to return to the subject of migration. you said it's difficult, i'm not optimistic. but think about it. angela merkel has spoken of flexible solidarity as a solution to this problem. we must, however, have a migration policy with all countries, starting with the countries of origin, which includes stronger border protection and does not leave a country alone when large numbers of refugees arrive. in my office, there's a spell in frisian, our other national language. i'll spare you the french, but in english it's something like this: if it can't be done the way it should be done, then it can be done the way it can be done. i think that's what's at play in the immigration debate. angela merkel calls this flexible solidarity, and i think it is a good idea. think about it. what could it look like? i would like to make two other points. as regards national parliaments, i agree with your argument. we can start to come up with really complicated constructs to engage that lake. but let us start with the documents in the council, which are often unnecessarily classified, which prevents national parliaments from doing their job and us from doing ours. this parliament is open and transparent. help us to make the council open and transparent too. finally, i come to my final plea. you were right to speak of a fair internal market, or of completing the internal market, including in the digital field. how do we ensure that we also make the digital single market fair? and yes, that might include a discussion of digital taxation. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. thank you, prime minister, for being here. i've been listening to a speech that some say was given by a convert. but may i ask you to make another conversion? because if we mention subjects where it can be 'better' or 'more', then i expect that social europe will also be on that list. you were at the summit in gothenburg. you were there when the citizens of europe were promised that europe would also become aaa in social terms. i am glad that you support the idea of a 'equal pay for equal work' for drivers. but as leader of the seven thrifty dwarfs, may i also see you as leader of the social alliance among the heads of government? and may i suggest your support for a european labour authority and a work-life balance?
mr president, it is an honour to speak here after mr rutte has made his plea. if we are to listen to history, i am not looking only at the 'republic of the seven united provinces', where the provinces began to share their sovereignty. another example is the united kingdom of the netherlands from 1815 to 1830, where we in the north showed too little respect for our compatriots in the south, both in the religious and in other fields. that's why that project failed. the european union is a great example of the kind of respect which we in the west should have for our colleagues in the east and the south, and vice versa. in this hemisphere we must debate from left to right without any fanfare. the parliamentary dimension mentioned by the prime minister, namely the european parliament and cooperation with national parliaments, is vital. because without a parliamentary dimension, there is no support. without support and with administrative arrogance, you cannot build europe. so we have to move forward together.
thank you, mr president. prime minister, this morning you said "promise less, deliver more". you then say that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced not by 30%, but by 55%. i think that's very good. all the glory for that. but our dependence on natural gas is not just responsible for the weekly earthquakes in groningen. it also does not bring us any closer to the objectives of the climate agreement. at the same time, the netherlands is falling short of many of the united nations development goals. we have too much poverty and not enough renewable energy. only a small proportion of agriculture is organic. and the greenhouse gas emissions are much higher than those of our european colleagues. your cabinet is doing a very small job of addressing that. you recently gave the commission a fertiliser derogation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action on its own. i would like to hear from the prime minister how he intends to ensure that the netherlands does not remain the meanest boy in the european class.
thank you, mr president, and welcome to the prime minister. the question is indeed: to whom do we leave the future? to donald trump, vladimir putin, the tech giants google and facebook, or oil companies like shell? no, without europe there is no future of values. europe will have to turn its back. i welcome the urgency with which the prime minister has stood here today. my compliments on that. but there is work to be done. why is the dutch government not taking the lead in changing the euro and why does it not seem to want to change anything? what is your signature worth if you say that the social pillar does not even end up in your bookcase? and why does the dutch government not want to reform the corporate tax? because you cannot be like the zeeland girl complaining about the european budget and at the same time allowing the netherlands to act as a tax pirate and steal income tax from other countries. the netherlands is spending more than 14 billion euros on the other european member states. so don't be john wayne shooting himself in the foot. be a partner too. there's work in store for the dutch cabinet.
president. - the debate is closed. welcome to the club, mr rutte! it is a pleasure to hear you speak warm words about europe here in the heart of european democracy. in a world of trump, kim jong un, brexit and refugee flows, facebook and climate change, europe is our protection. you spoke enthusiastically about the unity of europe, but at the same time you also spoke of the european union as a minimal technocratic cooperation. there is light in between, mr rutte. nation states were the answer to the challenges of the 19th century. european unification is the answer to the realities of the 21st century. because what europe needs now is not accountants, but leadership. leaders who dare to speak out for a strong political europe. are you the leader, mr. rutte? do you, together with macron and merkel, strengthen the pro-european, progressive centre? in any case, i am glad that you are now embracing the idea of a eurozone budget. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european union. but we cannot afford a weak europe. in 2019, the european elections will take place. d66 stands for a strong and united europe. mr. rutte, do we find you on our side?
president, mr rutte, we know each other well, so i will address you by your first name: - what? i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. i'm looking at frans timmermans now. he has just said that the economic growth in the netherlands was very high thanks to europe and that 85 billion euros were involved in terms of exports. as far as the reduction for agriculture is concerned, we do not yet know what figures are involved. is it 15 percent or 30 percent? in addition, the climate agreement implies an increase. the whole of europe must be involved. if that does not happen, we will end up selling off the agricultural sector throughout the netherlands, because then we will have to deal with an even higher cost price. in the netherlands we have always done what europe asked us to do in the environmental field. other countries have not done so. i would therefore urge that everything in europe be done in the same way, because the future of our family businesses and our manufacturing industry is at stake. it is about our transport companies and a viable countryside, and ultimately also about article 2 of the climate agreement. food security must be a priority not only in the netherlands but also in europe. i hope you and carola schouten will work hard on that.
prime minister rutte, thank you very much. yes, i can do it in dutch again. first of all, i would like to congratulate you, because after many years you have come to realise that europe is more than a market and a currency. i think that's been the slogan of the green left for 20 years. but that doesn't matter. it's a very good thing that step has been taken, so congratulations. you are also making very good progress on climate. i can tell you that the european parliament supports the netherlands in reducing emissions by 55 per cent. so we're already behind you. now to get some more countries on the council. that's another job. but what we are missing in the debate and in your narrative is the next step in your love of europe, namely a social europe. where is the story of social europe? as you know, we have created a single market and a europe with a single labour market, but in tax matters we are still national islands from which countries can benefit. i have a very simple question: will you support the initiative to have a minimum rate of corporation tax within europe to prevent this levelling down?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me make three general remarks before i go into the issue of the complaint before the european court of justice. first of all – and this has been said here before – we have no fight with the polish people, because they are europeans like us. we are all one, and we are just standing up for the principles that we have all signed up to. the interesting thing is that you just said that the eastern countries may have a view. countries don’t have a view. in a democracy, within a country there is pluralism, something that you have difficulty recognising. my second general remark is that my group fully supports commissioner timmermans’ efforts to redress the situation in poland and bring it back into the fold. my third general remark: you were all shouting when commissioner timmermans by accident or by mistake referred to moscow rather than warsaw. but isn’t there a degree of hypocrisy there? aren’t you also working very closely, for example, with mr steve bannon? this is all on the internet. it’s all public knowledge. mr steve bannon is clearly out to undermine the european union and is also working with mr orban, who is one of the biggest supporters of mr putin. so this is all one big network. you all have the same agenda. so stop the hypocrisy because this is not about, let’s say, the retirement age of judges. what this is about is your party creating an authoritarian regime in poland, and the polish people deserve better than that. (applause)maybe you could have the decency to hear me out just for once. it would be nice. the treaties allow the commission to bring a complaint against the reform law before the european court of justice – it has already been raised – and we would really urge the commission to do that soon, before the deadline of 3 july. you have the power and the means to act, and you have the support of the majority of this house. this is urgent. the new law on the supreme court will enter into force on 3 july, in less than three weeks’ time. everybody has already mentioned what the consequences will be. we have to avoid that, because otherwise we get what we saw in hungary: the situation may have been redressed by luxembourg, but by then a lot of judges had already been dismissed, and they never came back. that means that, in the end, there is still undue political influence on the judiciary. since there are only a few weeks left, we would also urge the commission to ask the court of justice for an interim measure to suspend the law until the case is resolved. so time is almost up, and we would ask the commission to act now. we would therefore join all the people in poland – ngos, political parties, civil society –who have been calling for the commission to take this step before the european court of justice. why is this important? i am going to quote the president of the european court of justice, who in a speech said, ‘judicial independence is the bedrock of our democracies, be it at national or european level. i would go as far as to say that judicial independence is part of both our common heritage and of our very identity as europeans’. the effective protection of eu rights requires that the competent national court is isolated from any political pressure, and if it’s not, it means that the whole european judicial fabric no longer works and that there are big holes in there. we have already seen the celmer case, in which an irish judge refused to extradite a polish citizen and did not respond to a european arrest warrant, but this will go further. we are talking about more and more connection, for example, of databases; we are talking about e—evidence; and we are talking about the european evidence warrant. all those instruments will not work – not just in poland, but in the whole european union – because, if you remove one part of the chain, then the whole chain will fall. so this is essential. but i would still like to urge the commission not to focus only on the judiciary, but also to look at the rights of women and freedom of the media. i am also very concerned about the attempts of the government to exert control over the media. the integrity and independence of the advertising and measurement markets are crucial in this context. poland has actually dropped from number 18 to number 58 in the world press index out of 180 countries. that should tell you something. so, all in all – and to finally also respond to your accusation that we are applying double standards, that may or may not be the case – i think it is an argument, commissioner timmermans, to quickly come forward with this general mechanism for the rule of law that applies equally in all the member states so that we can easily rebut the accusation that was just made.
in writing. despite the european commission's decision to trigger article 7 against poland, the situation with regard to the rule of law remains very worrying. the polish government is expected to introduce a law in july which will allow the replacement of dozens of supreme court judges. so there's not much time left to talk. the european commission and european governments must now act decisively to prevent such undemocratic measures from being taken by an eu member state. the european commission should not make a political game of it, but should leave it to the facts and intervene legally through infringement proceedings before the european court of justice. in any case, all means must be used to stop the mass dismissal at the polish supreme court, as it will be very difficult to reverse this measure in the future. the judicial systems in europe are so interconnected that one weak link can shake the whole system. it is therefore not only in the interests of the poles that these measures be stopped, but also in the interests of all europeans who must be able to rely on a fair judiciary.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. ivory hunters are violent criminals who have decimated elephant populations over the past century. the ivory trade has brought elephants to the brink of extinction. it's almost inconceivable, but still 55 elephants are killed every day. europe's role in this is questionable. the ivory trade has been banned for almost 30 years. however, brussels still allows exceptions for so-called old ivory. this allows jewelry, chess pieces, and billiard balls to be sold here, and the demand for ivory continues. europe is a major hub of the illegal ivory trade. the poachers operate in an organized way and do not hesitate to exterminate the elephants. chief, be clear. let there be no doubt and ban all trade in ivory. if you do not, we can watch elephants being brutally slaughtered together. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president, access to culture is not a given. i don't want to get involved in culture. in the netherlands, a cuts programme was implemented in the cultural sector in 2011. the cultural sector was cut by 200 million euros. subsidies were abolished because state secretary halbe zijlstra felt that private individuals could also pay for art and culture themselves. art and culture became the business of the elite. in fact , i 'm not . the taxation system in the netherlands allows the elite to invest in art and culture. this is despite the fact that both are an enrichment for society as a whole. these cuts have still not been fully reversed. i don't think so. access to culture from schools, community centres and libraries must be restored. that is why i am calling for a european approach to make culture accessible to all. the structural and financial barriers to culture must be removed. europe calls on the member states not to waste culture in times of scarcity. public access to arts and culture increases people's involvement in (european) society. equal opportunities for all, that is what my europe stands for.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. thank you, madam president. i must say that this morning i was awake, but i almost fell asleep again when i heard the commissioner, because i have rarely heard such a boring story. all these measures you mention, of course, we know about them. we've studied this. i myself am co-chairman of a network of meps from the intergroup on transparency and anti-corruption. so we know that. what we want is a good debate on exactly what all the colleagues here call 'the developments in europe', which are much worse than what we read in the economic semester, the reports of it, what does not come together and also the complexity of corruption. corruption is not just about a well-functioning rule of law. it's also about access to services like health care, education. it is a matter of the heart and it deserves a separate report from the commission. and then i hear: "yeah, we've streamlined now and it's in the economic semester". well, maybe that's where it's all wrong. and if you hear that from the left to the right in this parliament we all think the same thing, that we want a separate report, and we have been saying that for years, do not come up with a list of things that the commission is already doing. with the un and the council of europe, i have basically the same story. i have regular contact with the unodc secretariat in vienna, with the greco secretariat of the council of europe. and both secretaries say: we have all kinds of practical tools on offer to make it easy for the commission to participate in the peer reviews. we would also like some financial support - the un says so - in particular so that the commission can enable us to do our work. and each time the commission's answer is: yeah, we're looking into it, and there are all sorts of legal issues. yes, you will not get away with it, not even on an early thursday morning in strasbourg. we want a real debate with a clear answer.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. as my colleague, mr de jong, has already said, it is a boring story from the commissioner's point of view, but it has been going on for 30 years. it's been the same boring story for 30 years and it hasn't changed a bit. and mr de jong has been here for about ten years and he says it every year - very rightly, by the way - and nothing changes. my only conclusion is: it's never going to change. people, this is the way of the dodo, this parliament, the eu. no, two things come to mind when it comes to anti-corruption: the debate we had about mr selmayr. look at this. this is real corruption at the top, right in front of us, and we're not doing anything about it. we let it go and the perpetrators come with the scare, not even the scare, free. another example that comes to mind, mr president, is that of a colleague from the ppe, the christian democrats, mr bidegain from spain, who is asking for €100 000 to table an amendment on a hidden camera from british journalists posing as lobbyists. we'll let that go, too, with impunity. this gentleman is still here. so, mr president, we have no mandate at all, no right to speak about anti-corruption. thank you, and have a nice day. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. yes, thank you. - that's a good question. when you were sitting in those committee meetings, i was in my country talking to the voters there, my own voters in the netherlands, where the mandate belongs. i've been working here for the past four years to put this circus out of business. and when this circus is over, we'll be over that corruption.
author. – madam president, oleg sentsov, who spoke out against the illegal annexation of crimea, was arrested and is serving a 20 year sentence in the gulag. let’s not forget that this is the reality of russia as people watch the world cup. it is steps like these in which putin’s regime reveals itself most clearly. sentsov is one of 158 political prisoners, a number that has been rising sharply. memorial, a sakharov prize—winning human rights organisation, has kept this list and now oyub titiev of memorial in chechnya was also arrested. this worrying trend of repression is underlined by the fact that russia loses most cases before the european court of human rights. we call for the unconditional release of all political prisoners and human rights defenders and urge russian authorities to respect people’s rights, including when they’re in detention. it means fair trials, an end to torture and confessions extracted under torture, access to lawyers and doctors, etcetera. it is, first and foremost, in the interests of the russian people that civil society organisations and media can do their work without intimidation and in freedom.
author. – mr president, with any human rights resolution we seek to speak with one voice, as representatives of the european people and of different political parties. this strong, united message shows that our support for human rights binds us, no matter where in the world those rights are violated and no matter the other differences of opinion and political colour between us here in the parliament. in negotiations we seek compromise to ensure broad support. how tragic is it then that, after we had successfully negotiated a text taking on board all views, the epp and the ecr decided to propose an alternative resolution. not only is it a clear breach of trust, it also shows division on the importance of human rights in bahrain. our group is clear: it believes human rights should be addressed, no matter the political relations, trade interests and security or other shared areas of cooperation, because respect for universal human rights needs defending and, if the eu or this parliament together do not defend them, who will? i have a question for my colleague, mr campbell bannerman. following your logic, are you suggesting that the spreading of false information on brexit should have led to prison sentences?
madam president, according to rule 59a of the rules of procedure, i ask parliament to refer this proposal back to the committee on transport and tourism for interinstitutional negotiations.
rapporteur. – madam president, this is the second part of mobility package i. after the posting of ms merja kyllönen, we will have now driving and rest times for the drivers. to be honest, i have to fight today against fake news. in this proposal, the actual driving and rest times of the drivers are not being changed. everybody is giving us information that we are changing the driving and rest times, which is fake news. we are improving the labour and working circumstances and conditions of the drivers, and with our proposal a driver has to go home after the second week – so he goes home in the third week. if you look at what is happening now with nomadic drivers, who stay away from home for seven or eight weeks, this is really an improvement in the drivers’ labour circumstances. we will also give drivers the opportunity to spend their weekly and their daily rest times in proper parking places where there are toilets, the possibility to take a shower and possibilities to eat. this is not a small detail, this is the truth. and in addition to this, the enforcement of this regulation by the smart tachograph will be improved in 2024.
mr president, let us now look at the eu's cooperation projects. that is the greek crisis: zero cooperation. the euro crisis: no cooperation at all. turkey's accession was a big fiasco, very expensive. and finally , the migration crisis. well, we've all seen that in the last few days: and split right down to the bone. what are we gonna do? building a european army. no, that'll work. the commission is a bunch of do-it-yourselfers who can't put together a soapbox and then decide to build a formula 1 car. look, that's never gonna work, of course, and that's very dangerous. there's only one diagnosis that applies to this phenomenon, and it's from addiction care: the eu is addicted to fiasco. the eu is a crisis junk.
president. - i should like to congratulate mr kurz and austria on their presidency of the european council. the eu is facing a particularly difficult phase and the presidency will certainly not be easy. there are plenty of challenges. relations with turkey will have to be reviewed. the problems with the euro will certainly not be alleviated and mass immigration and its consequences will have to be tackled. it is therefore good that the presidency is in the hands of austria, where realism has come to power in the government of the övp and the fpö. if the eu is to survive, it can only do so with solutions coming from realistic parties. the pursuit of illusions has brought the eu to the brink of collapse. no alliance can survive when one, the northern half, must constantly pay the other half's expenses. no alliance can survive when germany invites millions of fortune seekers and profiteers to come to the eu and then lets all the other member states bear the consequences. no alliance can survive if it allows people in mosques under turkish state control to be indoctrinated with hatred of the west in its territory. the austrian government is showing that it is serious about tackling these problems. it is an example for the rest of the eu. it closes its borders, it expels radical imams and it closes mosques that are dangerous to the state. it is prepared to provide military support if necessary to combat mass immigration. the austrian government is rightly strongly opposed to turkey's accession to the european union. in short, in austria realism is in power and realism is the salvation of europe.
the rapporteur. - mr president, when you talk about eu transport policy, you are talking about the example of the internal market. we in the european parliament want the free movement of goods and people without too much administrative burden. but we also want a social policy and a social policy which at least supports and helps the drivers. but as mrs kyllönen said, we have a mobile market and the mobile market requires more flexibility. i would like to reiterate that the epp group believes that the package proposed by the committee on transport, which combines the three issues (namely posting, cabotage and driving and rest periods) in a balanced way, is a balanced package. but, mr. chairman, we are not blind. we have, of course, seen the vote in june as a defeat and we must move. the empl committee also has a clear view of what is going on and what needs to be done. in my report on driving and rest periods, we have adopted a number of amendments from empl which will hopefully bring the matter into balance and lead to a positive vote tomorrow. i have reduced the reference period from four weeks to two weeks because we want to give drivers a decent and balanced rest. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have to tell you frankly that i find that many people do not understand what is said in my report on those parking spaces. we respect the judgment of the european court of justice: i don't usually rest on freeways in bad parking lots. you may only spend your rest, including your weekends, in good parking spaces with all the necessary safety and sanitary measures. so sleeping in the parking lots is the exception, not the rule. it might be good in this age of fake news to just repeat that. i would like to appeal in particular to my colleagues in the s&d group, who supported an earlier compromise on this point, which i myself supported, and who now seem to be backing down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. persons are not containers and containers are not persons. we have made a distinction on a number of points so that the two streams can function together in a decent, but also social, way. finally, mr president, i would like to say this: if we cannot reach an agreement tomorrow, the liberalization of the market will continue unchanged. we are already seeing the necessary transport companies from ukraine, belarus and turkey moving into the european market without any form of social protection, without any form of internal market regulation. and we shouldn't want that.
president, it was in this chamber that jean-claude juncker announced three and a half years ago that he was going to pursue a triple a social europe, and many people were in favour. a social europe does not need first- and second-class workers. we therefore do not want drivers in europe to be treated as second-class workers. it is clear in these proposals that transit transport is excluded from the rules on secondment and we are prepared to talk about the danish model. so there is room for compromise. this is not the case with regard to driving and rest periods, because truck and bus drivers also have the right to adequate rest. to be on the road for weeks and hardly taking breaks is exhausting, it is bad for health and it is bad for the safety of everyone on the road. that is why we have put the empl proposals back on the table and i call on you to vote for them.
the mobility package, mr president, unfortunately reveals new fault lines in europe, fault lines between eastern and western europe, between countries on the periphery and those at the centre. but, mr president, is it not the role of this european parliament to bridge those fault lines? a united parliament can send a strong signal to a divided council. of course, the compromise as it was worked out in the committee on transport has imperfections. but the beauty of the compromise is the balance between the internal market and social working conditions for all european drivers. international hauliers and drivers are getting the benefits of the single market, but not the administrative burdens. we're also ending the unwanted nomadic existence of drivers and we're starting a smart tachograph. president, the title of the mobility package is 'europe on the move'. let us make a move on this matter by supporting the mandate of the committee on transport and negotiating. let's move on.
substitute author. mr president, helping people in need is a moral duty for all of us. if a danish motorist sees a syrian family with small children choking on the side of the highway, it is only human to give them a lift. when spanish firefighters on greek islands save people from drowning, they deserve our applause. nevertheless, the danish motorists and the spanish firemen were prosecuted for human smuggling. the 2002 directive, with its very long title 'on the definition of assistance in the event of illegal entry, illegal transit and illegal residence', provides that each member state must have appropriate sanctions in place if a european citizen helps someone to enter or move irregularly in that member state, if this is contrary to national law. the directive also states that if a european citizen is seeking personal financial gain, that member state must prosecute that citizen. because that's a crime. but, and i prefer to speak of irregular rather than illegal, if a european simply provides assistance to a migrant without a right of residence, that cannot be criminalised under the united nations protocol against smuggling. the (brief) 'definition of aid' directive provides for this in article 1 (2) with a non-binding option for an exception for humanitarian aid. but that exception has not been understood correctly in all cases, otherwise those danish motorists and those spanish firemen would never have been prosecuted. the european parliament therefore asks the european commission to formulate clear guidelines for the member states on the application of this directive, so that the exception is regulated and that the provision of humanitarian aid is subsequently incorporated in each member state either in law or in practice, and we make it clear once and for all which forms of aid should not be made punishable in member states. i think it is of the utmost importance to emphasize that at this time. the ship is waiting in malta for the seawatch to be cleared to sail. the aquarius is in marseille, in the harbour, because it was no longer allowed to stock up in italy. there are hardly any ngo rescue ships operating in the mediterranean at present. and that's when the law in italy is very clear: humanitarian aid is not a criminal offence. in austria, belgium, germany, the united kingdom, finland, sweden, the netherlands, luxembourg, portugal, croatia, ireland - and this list is not exhaustive - there is also a distinction made in those countries between people who smuggle for financial gain, which is a criminal offence, and people who help out of humanitarian motives. that distinction is very important. in france, the law has recently been tightened, making it more difficult for aid workers to provide aid. whereas in hungary, since the vote on the new ngo law, it has actually become almost impossible to help migrants with simple things like food and drink and a place to sleep. so while many countries distinguish between aid and exploitation at home, they seem to have lost sight of this in mediterranean rescue operations. the council conclusions of last week state that all vessels operating in the mediterranean must respect the laws in force and must not interfere with the work of the libyan coastguard. of course, all ships at sea must obey the law. why does that need to be stressed? don't these ngos follow the law? i think you do. i think they respect the law and also the law of the sea in which one principle is very clear, namely that a drowning person must be saved. why is there such an emphasis on the operation of a third country's coast guard? the un protocol against smuggling, which clearly states that the provision of humanitarian aid is not a criminal offence, does not apply to the mediterranean sea? and the european directive on the definition of assistance? so, mr president, it is very desirable that the european commission should provide clarity to the member states on the interpretation of the directive. thank you, sir.
for the enf group they've been all over the news these past few days, the lifeline and aquarius boats, sailing under false flag with their mandatory radio beacons. sponsored by doctors without borders, they are part of the illegal migration chain, a chain that runs from recruiting migrants in africa to delivering those people to the country where they want to live. all the links in this chain facilitate illegal activity. the european parliament is a big fan of these ngos, who by picking up migrants off the coast of libya are provoking the deadly smuggling of people across the mediterranean. the european parliament now believes that ngos should never be prosecuted for human trafficking. the european union has no competence in criminal law. the member states are dealing with criminal law. this debate shows that this is a good thing, because it means that the establishment of the rules of exception to criminal law is also a sovereign right of each member state. mr. speaker, ngos are not above the law. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group smes are of inestimable value to european countries and to the netherlands as well. more than half of all employed dutch people work in small and mediumsized enterprises. we actually buy all our stuff from the smes. smes are the main source of entrepreneurship in our society. if we find a city centre or a village centre to be a cosy place, it's usually because it's not just multinationals, but it's also because it's these smaller, local businesses. that is why smes deserve our generous support. in order to access funding and also eu support programmes, the definition of smes is incredibly important. i therefore ask the commission to examine first whether it would be worthwhile to change the definition rather than simply deciding that this should be done. let us not try to add more criteria to the definition. the wider the definition, the more difficult it is for smes to claim the support they really deserve. the sme has told me that the change of definition is not necessary as far as it is concerned. so why would we even change something that works? let us really make the lives of entrepreneurs easier, not harder. that is why i have also been committed to simplifying the vat rules. because that is how we help small and mediumsized businesses and how we all really get ahead. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would say to the prime minister: you do not listen to the european parliament. you do not listen to the venice commission. you do not listen to the national council for the judiciary. you do not listen to ngos. you do not listen to the people who are protesting in the street and who supported the polish supreme court judge this morning. my question to you is: will you listen to the european court of justice when it rules? do you acknowledge the authority of the european court of justice?
mr. prime minister, you seem to see this debate here as a lesson to a proud people, as you called it. i think we have already got a misunderstanding here, because we are debating a government leader. a people is not a government, a nation is not a people and a political party is not a government. it is very important to keep all of us separated, that when we address a government, we are not addressing a people or a state. if you see it that way, it makes sense that dissenting voices would get in your way, because you are the state, the nation, the people. and you're going to make mistakes, because dissenting voices are there to control all of us, because we don't have the wisdom on our own, because a society works better when we share criticism. if you fire judges, if you don't let judges work independently, abuses are not addressed and corrections for errors are not made.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you, sir.
mr president, last week there was a feeling of relief in europe because the third aid programme is due to expire in august. but is it really right that we should be in a state of jubilation? the signs seem to be green for greece: unemployment is falling and the country is indeed in surplus this year, but have the aid packages really helped? mr moscovici pointed out that the social measures in the third aid programme were limited and that youth unemployment was still at a staggering 42%. the greek debt is the highest in europe and will be a noose around the neck of the greek people for years to come. you will notice that greek hospitals are understaffed, that the equipment is outdated and that the purchasing power of the greek population has decreased by a very large percentage. which brings me to my question. wages have been cut by half in recent years, partly because the system of sectoral collective bargaining has been abolished. mr centeno, you have experience with the portuguese aid programme. you both know that there is now, even from the imf, a call for an increase in wages in europe. so my question is: what lessons do you draw from the situation in europe where in greece, but also in other programme countries, the trade unions have been sidelined, people have lost their bargaining power and are left with unviable wages? how do we prevent such a tragedy in the future?
madam president, to stand on its own feet, that is what we want for greece and the greek people, allowing the greek people and their politicians to make their own choices and their own mistakes. to be a real democracy again. but we are far from that situation. firstly, a severe restriction in supply. the primary surplus needs to be 3.5% of gdp until 2022 and, after that, the commission’s analysis shows that it could decline to 2.2% until 2060. this is without any precedent in the world. related – and secondly – the sustainability of debt is far from assured. is it a coincidence that a debt sustainability analysis has not been published? it is certainly not a coincidence that the imf has raised severe doubts about the debt sustainability, and does not participate? mistakes have been made by greek politicians, but also by our banks and pension funds. we have a responsibility, but i would rather have seen us taking responsibility by a debt write-off, allowing the greek people to stand on their own feet and to make their own choices and mistakes. finally, eurogroup should do more for andreas georgiou. the statistics and the methodology underpinning them have been verified by eurostat, implying us as well. his fate is also our concern.
president, in the week in which david pap was murdered in ukraine because of his roma origin and salvini, the italian minister of the interior, was discussing further the implementation of his roma census, i visited the józsefváros district in budapest. this central district is popularly called the roma ghetto. although the problems faced by roma families are well known, i was again struck by the harsh conditions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, such as the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund and the creation of a european social fund. instead of ensuring that the roma in this district have a decent life, the municipality has done everything in recent years to make the district up-and-coming. in reality, this means a law that has now banned begging on the streets, and large-scale new construction in places where many roma families live, forcing them to move. this policy is exemplary in the exclusion of roma from european societies. another sad example of this structural exclusion is the scandalous statements made by salvini. let me be very clear about that: the european union has not only not allowed deportation on the basis of ethnicity, it is a scandalous proposal that evokes associations with one of the darkest periods in european history. it's the year 2018! it is interesting that today we still have to talk about serious discrimination and hate crimes against roma. whether we are talking about roma in józsefváros in budapest or in italian cities, exclusion and discrimination against roma must be fought in all member states. for all that we stand for as the eu. it is high time that fundamental rights also applied to the largest minority in europe, the 10 million roma and sinti who are part of our societies.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for 2019 is based on the principle of the budgetary authority, which is the european parliament. take professor ashoka mody, who recently called the introduction of the euro a huge mistake. the most shocking conclusion is that the eurocrats knew in advance the dangers and risks of a common currency. yet the eu elite pushed through this plan. as professor mody has now shown, the euro has not brought us economic growth and prosperity either. the same tunnel vision applies to both the commission proposal and parliament's response to it. this budget again burdens the taxpayer with additional costs caused by regulation and manipulation, such as the banning of gas from homes, solar panels, electric cars, uncontrolled immigration, a european army, indoctrination of the youth and propaganda of the eu. if it's up to me and my party, we'll stop the euro and the eu today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i speak on behalf of this house, of course, but especially also the committee on regional development. we have one third of the european budget, so we have looked with great interest in the last year at this type of debate, after the high-level group that came forward with the need to change and to have another attitude, not to have any more controls. on control, i think we made big steps forward. it is important for our citizens, important for the beneficiaries, to make it, let me say, sometimes fun to work on european union programmes, not just a burden, and this means it cuts costs. easier reimbursement of payments, of the money, simpler checks. we had control on control, sometimes five times! you get weird things in this kind of a union! here now, those who perform well will have a lighter system of control – member states, regions and cities – in cohesion policy. so this is the aim. the aim is to perform better and to show it. simpler rules, as the commissioner said, to combine funds and this is, i think, the need for the future. the second thing i might pinpoint is that, in fact, we debated on the system for this combination of funds. is it necessary, if you have regional funds in the envelope of a member state, to put the money first in the pocket of the efsi, for instance, in order to get these guarantees later? we rejected article 13.30a and this was agreed with the council and i am surprised that now, looking at investeu, the commission has come back with the same proposal. what happened there? we had an agreement with the legislative bodies on that. so mr oettinger, what went wrong there? because the good steps that we make here should be followed. and my last sentence is on communication: you could bring in some amendments to show our citizens what we are doing with these new methods.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we all want to protect smes and businesses but isn’t this a little bit like the world on its head? we are talking about a kind of agreement here in which the usa is non-compliant. they are not implementing. this is not like in school, where you also get points for the efforts that you make. you have to be compliant: full stop. if they are not compliant then, indeed, the commission should suspend the privacy shield. the point is that they have not been compliant for the past nearly two years. this is not a matter of there being some technical problems, they just don’t want to implement. the political will is not there. if they really do want to implement, then they can follow our resolution that says ‘comply by 1 september’. they have another two months: what’s the problem? if they really want to – and this is america, they can do anything – surely they can implement the privacy shield? and if they cannot do that in two months, what makes us believe they can do it in three months or in a year? we are fooling our citizens here because what we’re talking about is not the presumption of compliance, it’s the pretence of compliance. in the current situation we are pretending that citizens are covered by the protection of personal data, whereas that is not the case. we have a duty to our citizens here. if anybody wants to protect businesses, and they have a right to legal protection as well, then two things should happen. the first is that we should not be talking here about a resolution, we should be talking to the americans and telling them to get their act together and implement right now. the second thing that needs to be done is that we have to stop making bad laws and bad agreements that do not comply with the treaties and with eu law, and which, every single time, have to be thrown out by the court of justice. they are doing our homework and we are doing a disservice to our citizens. so let’s get serious about data protection. we’ve been rejoicing about the general data protection regulation: now let’s live up to expectations. ensure compliance by 1 september or the privacy shield has to be suspended.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have to say that i am quite dismayed to hear the presidency say that it is not your task to evaluate the impact on citizens. if the situation of citizens is not your concern, then what are you doing here? it is our prime concern, and you know what the funny thing is, there are only two countries in the world that have citizen-based taxation. one is the us, the other is eritrea, and when eritrea came here to europe and tried to impose taxes on eritrean citizens here, everybody reacted. apparently, then, it was our concern. so what is different now? so you think that international relations are more important than the interests of your own citizens. that’s funny, and the other thing that is also funny is that when i started to dig into this, six years ago, i got the same answer: ‘oh, you know, taxation – there is nothing we can do. americans decide on their own system; we hardly have any talks with the americans about this’. but then i made a request for access to documents, and i got 14 000 documents: correspondence between the european commission and the us authorities on fatca (foreign account tax compliance act). so why are you saying that it doesn’t concern you? what you are saying is that you consider your relationship with the american authorities more important than the rights of citizens. and we are not just talking about basic bank accounts: we are talking about getting a mortgage loan to buy a house, which i think is a fundamental right, or a business loan for an sme, which we were just talking about. so if you can tell eritrea off, surely you can tell the united states off too. we are talking about at least 110 000 citizens in just seven countries of the european union, so we are probably talking hundreds of thousands. you have just started your presidency. maybe it would be a good start, even before the summer break, to show a little more concern for the interests of european citizens. so i expect the european council to start talks with the united states about the abolition of citizen-based taxation or, at the very least, an exemption for eu citizens, because it is your duty.
it is clear, mr president, that brussels must turn its back politically on the abuse of power in chișinău. we must also note that the high representative, mrs mogherini, and commissioner hahn have made this very clear: the right wing against the abuse of political power in chișinău. however, at the same time i would also like to stress that we must not abandon european involvement, i am thinking in particular of humanitarian involvement, for example a dutch church organisation which helps children from weak, poor families with education, security and food, with all our criticism of the abuse of power in moldova. the abuse of power is first and foremost on the backs of moldovan civil society, and let us not forget that. i am counting on the wisdom and also the commitment of the european institutions not to lose sight of this humanitarian aspect in this political crisis. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i think you have misunderstood my speech. i don't think you should play things off against each other. it must be clear that we must uphold our standards, our principles and at the same time seek the wisdom to avoid making civil society a victim of this. then we'll have to cooperate with the moldovan authorities.
president. - we are having an important debate this afternoon on the rights of women in pakistan. in fact, this debate could have been better renamed after the glaring lack of rights for women in pakistan. kidnapping, rape, intimidation and forced conversion to the hateful ideology called islam. these are just a few examples of the suffering that many pakistani women face. it is often thought that this kind of atrocity can be stopped with a western subsidy program. the european parliament too is guilty of this, and it is becoming increasingly clear that this so-called aid is not working. local tribal leaders say one thing, but do another. for example, huge sums of taxpayers' money have been squandered without any improvement in the living conditions of women and christian minorities, for example. then why do we still send in slave money every year? unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. not for the first time and not for the last time i'm afraid, islam is making innocent victims. all over the world, this primitive hate-filled ideology is fueling war and violence. western democratic values are not shared in any country where islam is dominant. and we haven't even started talking about islamic terrorism yet. europe has been shocked by many dozens of islamic attacks in recent years. islam remains the main source of inspiration and legitimacy for terrorists who have been able to cause far too many victims in recent years. it seems to be the rule rather than the exception these days. every week it hits somewhere in europe. europol also concludes that more than 95% of all deaths in terrorist attacks each year are the result of islamist-inspired violence. a few weeks ago i put written questions to the european commission. i have asked the commission to guarantee that no money will be spent on islamic dictatorships. these regimes, which invariably oppress women, are able to continue their evil practices, thanks in part to money from the european union. all of this can only lead to one conclusion: the financing of islamic dictatorships like pakistan must stop immediately. every euro spent on pakistan is a support for islam, a support for hatred against all those who do not submit to the despicable rules of the sharia.
i will respond briefly in my own language. look, you may think islam is a religion, we think it is an intolerant ideology and all the atrocities that we have heard here today, also from colleagues, all that is happening there in pakistan, what is being done to those women - you can look away, look the other way, but it is terrible. we just stand up for justice for women, equal rights and just call the shots. it is an intolerant ideology and the inspiration for all these atrocities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, ms maletić is not here and i will speak on behalf of the ppe group in the same time slot. the structural reform support programme is the new kid on the block. it is a new instrument that started with the support of parliament. i was one of the rapporteurs in this period. we started with a tiny amount of eur 42 million, and the success of this programme, the take—up by member states – 24 of them, as you said – means that these structural reforms are considered necessary, which is exactly what rapporteur ruža tomašić told us. it is important to say yes to the second step and start immediately in october with the call, but i must say, commissioner, your happiness is okay, but you put forward another proposal to take even more money from the performance reserve. i can say that this second step, the second legal proposal here, will be the last on this in this period, and your next step will be in the next mff. there you have up to eur 25 billion for a bigger rollout of the idea and of the three instruments that you proposed, so we are very happy, the ppe group strongly supports it. it is necessary, it works, and it makes europe better.
president. - during the recess i met a gentleman in the netherlands who asked me: where does the money from these cohesion funds come from, where does it go and how is it controlled? and i said, well, i can answer the first two questions. that money is yours, you're the taxpayer. the dutch government collects these taxes and the dutch government transfers the money to the eu, to brussels. and brussels is transferring it back to, say, bulgaria. but then it gets difficult. because who's controlling that? that's not the dutch government. this gentleman has a little faith in that. it's not the eu, he's already a lot less confident in that. no, it's the bulgarian government that does that. that's hopeless, there's no way to explain it. it's even easier for me to explain to my wife how the sideline works in football or to explain that rocky and rambo are not the same, but they're a little different. but it is not possible to explain why a taxpayer in the netherlands is not bothered here in the eu to check the money he earns and spends in bulgaria.
it is very good that many european countries have found their way to the structural reform support programme. this aid programme is a real european success story. it creates jobs for people, it tackles environmental problems and it ensures sound public finances. i am therefore pleased that we are increasing the budget to help countries further with their much needed reforms. the money we then invest from the european budget in those countries can actually start to pay off. if you want the best for your country and for europe, you must support structural reforms. the occasional coalition of nationalists, populists and extremists who reject the proposal tomorrow are voting against their own national interest. that has very little to do with patriotism, but it has everything to do with political shortsightedness.
mr president, this is a special report. it is an implementation report that was initiated by parliament and we produced it at the right moment. we have heard what the implementation will entail: it is very positive and, in this regard, if you look to the future it is extremely important to note that we already have instruments under the interreg programme going cross-border and working in a very targeted and dedicated way. we could see, especially during our visit, that this works. let me say that borders are, in fact, something from the past. we resolved this issue: we waved away the ‘old scars’ both politically and also in a practical sense. my wish and the wish of the epp group is that mr barnier – who, i know, already has the peace+ programme in his toolbox – also resolves it and that people will again feel the contribution of europe in the future. this is worth talking about. good report, mr vaughan!
mr president, thank you very much for the opportunity to look back to the moment in 2015 when we were convinced that those projects which were planned and that could not be co-financed, could be fixed in greece. we did it. and the last two speakers... well i don’t know where they were talking about. this was a specific measure, and there was a deep debate here in the parliament in the economic affairs committee. they asked ‘who is following it?’ and we said ‘we will appoint a standing rapporteur’. he is now sitting: mr arimont. and he did his job, two years later, three years later to see what comes out. and the conclusion is clear: the work was fixed, the work was done. good results and even with more capacity to perform in the future. so i was convinced and i am convinced that this is a good measure. special times, special situation, special measures. we did it.
in writing. the cheering on the situation in greece continues. the last aid package has been granted, the country can borrow again on the capital market and unemployment is falling. the cohesion policy we are discussing today has of course contributed to this positive note. i therefore support the measures taken by europe to combat unemployment, for example. however, that is not the end of the matter. we must not abandon the greek people. after all, youth unemployment is at a whopping 42 percent. the greek debt, at 180 percent of gdp, is the highest in europe. a debt which, by accounting tricks, will hang like a noose around the neck of the greek people for years to come. i therefore conclude that there is a great deal of suffering behind the figures. and not just in greece. that is why i, as rapporteur for the empl for the proposed common provisions, propose to increase the eu pre-financing of projects. the less developed regions also need to receive more eu funds to make social policy work. only in this way can we continue to build a social europe in the future.
mr president, i may be the first non-greek speaker. of course, i am very pleased that we have taken a minute's silence together at the beginning of this sitting. what happened to the people and immediately afterwards, as the commissioners have also indicated, is now a matter of aid. first aid, acute, is also well done. secondly, it's about building, and that's what we're talking about here: solidarity fund and other re-prioritization. but there are some questions behind it, and they were asked, such as how we can do more to prevent it. how can we reduce the number of deaths in such situations? i remember the debate we had here about the flooding of a large area, also in greece, in which construction was taking place! yeah, well, you can prevent that at some point. you can prevent a lot more. it's good we're getting a resolution. we'll look at the text. the epp would like to do that. and secondly, in october, we're going to have a little bit of a broader debate about the right balance between prevention and cure, between compassion that we like to show, but also preventing these kinds of things that happen almost every year.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i welcome mr tsipras to this parliament and i tell him, the future of europe is getting brighter every day. but that is not because of all these ‘hallelujah’ stories about a greece that it is going so well. mr tsipras has achieved a lot, but is it over now? no. still, the future of europe is brighter every day, and that is because of the strong ties that are being built between italy and the visegrad countries, which show a victory of rationality over the destructive forces of socialism, liberalism or whatever they want to call themselves. these are countries with bright politicians that truly represent the people’s fight against the destructive policies of the eu: they fight mass migration; they fight a killing policy of austerity and they fight growing terrorism. and, therefore, i welcome mr tsipras, who was the hope of the greek people. and i also understand from his words here that he has been forced by the troika to bend to their financial demands, and now he is speaking their language. it has whipped and tortured the people of greece into unemployment, into poverty and social disruption. not least because of mass migration. and everybody knows it was not about the adjustment of the greek economy: it is about saving german and french international banks. and that more or less succeeded. but is the ordeal over for greece? no, it is not. i think that greece will be enslaved by this financial burden for years to come. perhaps for eternity. so i hope that the next elections in greece will see a change, the true change that was promised by mr tsipras. and perhaps since he has been let a little more off the hook he can also adjust his government policies into ones that really and truly listen to the needs of the greek people who are suffering. they are suffering because of the euro, they are suffering because of an eu project that was not prepared to step in for greece and to protect the democratic rights of the greek people.
prime minister of greece. mr president, i am always very pleased to have this lively debate in parliament, and in particular in the european parliament. i may not have provoked the same enthusiasm or the same controversy as in my previous presence here, as mr verhofstadt and other members have recalled, but i imagine that i did provoke - and it was my aim to provoke - a lively and substantive dialogue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the crisis did not start yesterday, the crisis started in 2010. the adjustment programmes started in 2010 and it has been eight years since 2010 that we can now look to the future with more optimism, that we can now talk about the definitive end of the economic crisis and adjustment programmes. let me say, dear and dear members, that i am happy and pleased that my government is the one that succeeded where three consecutive governments from 2010 to 2015 failed. this in itself is a remarkable political success. but what makes me really happy today is not that we have succeeded in completing the adjustment programmes. because this could be achieved by some other political force following a recipe that would leave the great social majority vulnerable, would leave them unprotected, as happened from 2010 to 2015. if i feel that we have achieved anything, it is that on the one hand we have succeeded in deepening the structural reforms which have led us to fiscal consolidation and to the exit from the crisis, while at the same time we have succeeded in protecting, as far as we could within the budgetary margin we had, the great majority of the population. this was the great difficulty and the great success of these three years: the fact, that is, that in 2015, when i came here, greece was on the verge of a great humanitarian crisis, because it had two million uninsured citizens who had no right to access health care; because there was no possibility for 600 000 people of the guaranteed minimum income, the social solidarity income; because there were real people who had lost not only their income, but their jobs, their future, their present and they still had not - still had not to meet their daily needs, still - still had not to eat and they were in the soup kitchens of social organizations by the thousands. this image does not exist in greece today. no, i don't want to be here in front of you telling you that it's a "success story". but it is a path that, step by step, paves the way to the future. and if there's one thing i really want to tell you that i'm happy about, it's that we've managed to deepen structural reforms, to set a course for fiscal consolidation, to achieve primary surpluses that no other government has been able to achieve with much, much tougher fiscal adjustment measures, while at the same time we've managed to protect the most vulnerable, not just the uninsured, not just the poor, but most importantly to set a precedent for protecting workers' rights. because that was the core of the neoliberal hegemony of the policies imposed both before and during the memoranda in greece: the shrinking of work, the dissolution of work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we believe the opposite: that room for growth can only be created by supporting work and supporting social cohesion. that's a big ideological divide and difference that we progressives have from neoliberals. i would like to ask the following question, because i have listened with great interest to mr verhofstadt: why did greece need three consecutive programmes? why did it take greece eight years, while other countries in this difficult economic situation - cyprus, portugal, ireland - managed to get out in three years? big mistakes were made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we have to admit that. because the first programmes, instead of going into the structural reforms that the country needs, instead of giving priority to structural reforms, gave priority to an unprecedented fiscal adjustment, which in fact led to an economic impasse. it has in fact led to an unprecedented internal devaluation, to a fall in consumption and to a vicious circle, a spiral of recession and austerity. on the contrary, we reached a difficult agreement in 2015, which was a deal of softer fiscal adjustment, with a priority on structural structural reforms, which previous greek governments did not want to prioritize. they preferred to cut pensions and wages rather than make structural reforms. it is because there were organized interests, which they did not want to touch, and customer relations. that is the truth, whether some of you like it or not, because you want to defend political forces that belong to your own political families. i have come to answer mr gonzález pons, who has of course told me that i have changed. i don't know if that's a bad thing. it is wrong for some to remain incorrigible and try to defend what is indefensible. i have heard you criticize, of course. and i think criticism is very good for the republic and i'm very glad you did it to me. i want to remind you that today is september 11th. in addition to the sad day of the terrorist attack on the united states, it is another black anniversary. it is the anniversary of the death of salvador allende. i am sorry, mr gonzález pons, that in your speech you have reproduced - i do not know whether you are doing it consciously or not - the theory of the two extremes. i hope at least that you do not think, as some of your friends and colleagues in greece do, that the dictator pinochet has implemented interesting policies to be copied, particularly as regards the social security system. but i want to answer two specific points you have made. you spoke of nepotism and populism. i would therefore like to remind you that if you want to talk about nepotism in greece, there is unfortunately a faction, the conservative faction, which has given so much to greece - because i want to be fair and just - in which the children of some successful or unsuccessful former prime ministers are usually the leaders. that's the tradition in greece. is there anywhere else this in conservative parties across europe? do not look to us for nepotism or client state. you also spoke of populism. i am sorry, but again, it is your own side you must turn to when you speak of populism. because there is no greater populism than playing with national issues and changing sides to fish in the murky waters of the far right and not to split your own party. the attitude of the new democracy party, which belongs to your political family, towards the solution necessary for europe, the solution necessary for the balkans, the solution necessary for our region, the solution to the name problem of our northern neighbour, the macedonian problem, is an attitude which will be described in future history books as the definition of populism and opportunism. i would like to close my remarks on all that you have said in reply and on something i imagine you have said without knowing many details. mr. marias said a lot of these things, inaccuracies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you talked about 100 billion costs - you say it and many of your conservative fellow politicians say it again - which is the cost of greece's negotiation in that difficult six months; a semester in which mistakes were made on both sides, there's no doubt about that. but it is good, when we speak in this chamber, not to speak in terms of political communication and inaccuracies. because if there were a cost burden of that many billions of euros, the public debt would have risen accordingly. but what exactly are those who claim that there was this cost saying? they say that there would be on paper a growth potential in 2015, 2016, 2017, of the order of 20% of gdp, that is, that the cost to the greek economy of losing 25% of its gdp, that is, 1/4 of its national wealth, the first four disastrous years, would allegedly be gained if there was no political change in greece. how is that true? what policies? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. with growth rates of 0.3%, which achieved 0.4% just one year in 2014? how would he manage to achieve that pace that would bring back 20% of gdp? well, these are targeted inaccuracies. it is also incorrect to say that greece spent 40 billion on recapitalising its banks in the same three years. the total cost of all three recapitalisations was 45 billion, but the recapitalisation in our own years cost only 6 billion of the 24 available from the third budgetary adjustment programme. i say this because there are some things that need to be answered. and i say this because i believe that if we are to look ahead, we must, with our existing ideological and political differences, at least, when we dispute, dispute over the actual numbers and the reality that we have all faced. i want to close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this great and real danger, which concerns the very future of the european union - an existential danger for europe - is not, as i understand it from many of the interventions, treated as such. i would like to say that we are facing this great danger, if not primarily because in recent years we have indeed prioritized policies of extreme character, which were of course aimed at economic equilibrium but, in order to achieve it, tried to save the banks without taking account of the social costs. it is these policies that give voice today to extreme political forces, with a leading role. i want to address once again the entire democratic arc, from the left of social democracy to the liberal center, but also to you, the people's party, because these forces are within you and they are becoming dominant, hegemonic in political discourse. when you are forced to turn your political rhetoric towards nationalist, extreme, chauvinist positions in order to reverse or stop the rise of the far right in your countries, you are doing nothing more than feeding these extreme forces which will soon reach rates that will be worrying for all of us in europe. and that must be stopped! to stop it we must return to the founding values of the european union, which are solidarity, which is social cohesion, which is the well-being of citizens.
president. - mr president, in recent months all the european leaders have said that they are so pleased with the developments in greece and that this is because of the three bailouts that have taken place. they say: there is economic growth, so it's going well! i think that is the reality of the paper! the daily reality in greece is quite different. unemployment is 19%, youth unemployment is 40%! three quarters of the greek students said: we are leaving the country! and the greek public debt is 180% of gdp and rising! the daily reality for millions of greeks is grim. it would be better if greece left the eurozone and had a large write-off of its public debt, but remained in the european union. this mix will allow exports to grow again and the country to continue to benefit from european funds. that's the route to hope for the greeks! does the prime minister agree with me? i would also like to say to mr bullmann: the biggest thrift we've ever had came from his political family! that was mr. jellybean!
i would like to take a moment in this house to recall an event that took place 17 years ago. it was the largest islamic attack in the western world: the european union is not a party to the conflict. thank you, sir.
rapporteur. – mr president, i didn’t see this coming. i thought we had company. but, as my report is targeted to the council as a whole, i’ll just get started. colleagues, today we are debating the state of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in hungary. tomorrow, president juncker will present his state of the union. i want to ask you colleagues today: what is the state of our union? what shape are we in? mr president, i think i should stop now and start again because i don’t think this is a good start to the debate. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start again and let me welcome prime minister orbán, who i wanted to shake hands with, but he turned up late for the debate. (murmurs of disapproval)today, we are debating the state of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in hungary. tomorrow, president juncker will present his state of the union, and i asked you before – i ask you now again, colleagues – today, what is the state of our union? what shape are we in? article 2 of the treaty on european union reads: ‘the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to a minority’. it continues: ‘these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non—discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail’. by signing up to the treaty on european union, all the member states made a commitment – an obligation to defend, respect and promote these values, regardless of political differences. are all the member states fulfilling these commitments? i’m afraid not. the hungarian government has effectively silenced independent media. it has put academia on a leash, and future generations will not learn to appreciate critical thinking. it has replaced independent judges with those with a closer tie to the regime. it has rules on which churches are allowed to worship and which churches are not. it makes life miserable for ngos that provide services to citizens in need, such as homeless people, migrants and refugees and marginalised groups like roma. these are services that – to add insult to injury – lighten the work of local governments and are often financed through european union funding. on top of that, individuals in the government have enriched themselves, their family members and their friends by means of public funding from european taxpayers’ money. the report that is before you today comprehensively lists the actions that, together, represent a clear risk of a serious breach of the values of our union. unfortunately, nothing has improved since this report was voted on in june. on the contrary, this summer, one of the last independent news channels changed ownership and, from one day to another, became the mouthpiece of the government. the propaganda tax on ngos got through parliament, and whether the central european university can continue to function in budapest is still a big question. since 2010, the european parliament has been urging the commission and the member states to act. they did not do so. and it’s particularly disappointing that the member states turned a blind eye to the structural erosion of the rule of law in a fellow member state. it is not the commission alone that is the so—called ‘guardian of the treaties’. we are all the guardians of the treaties. (applause)we all have the task of protecting the rights of european citizens to live today in a society, as article 2 reads, ‘in which pluralism, non—discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail’. it is therefore our duty to act, under the very same treaty that hungary decided to ratify. the civil liberties committee, after consulting four committees of this house, concluded that an article 7.1 procedure is inevitable. i do not think lightly about triggering that article, but if this house fails to use this emergency brake, we fail to deliver to european citizens what was promised to them in the treaty. colleagues, the time has come to make an important choice. will you let a government violate the values upon which this union was built without consequences, or will you ensure that the values of this union are more than just words written on a piece of paper? colleagues, i count on your support. (applause)
mr president, i’m delighted to hear mr jurek’s ardent plea to uphold article 2 of the treaty, because – i say to mr orbán – the funny thing here is that you claim that the european union wants to impose things on your country, but your country was the first country to ratify the lisbon treaty. and i’m sure that you read article 2 before you put your signature to it. so all we are doing is keeping you to your word. and you know what? the hungarian people want you to keep your word, because they want to remain at the heart of the european union. but then you have to play by the rules and respect the rules. debates like this one today are about a very difficult situation, and some people are getting rather desperate about how to get out of that situation, but i think this is just a difficult phase in a bigger process of the european union coming of age as a community of values and a community of law. and we will get out of this situation. maybe we should do that by de-dramatising and de-politicising. you put a lot of drama in your speeches, mr orbán, but i actually prefer the approach of ms sargentini, which is very factual, fact-based and accurate. her report is a very accurate picture of the state of play of democracy and the rule of law in your country, and it is not a pretty sight. you talk about the hungarian people but – you know what, mr orbán – all of us here have voters, and my voters ask me why we have to respect the rules when the hungarian government doesn’t have to. why are we giving mr orbán eur 87 million a week in order to destroy the european union? why are they getting away with it? well i have difficulty answering my voters. it is not just your voters we’re talking about, mr orbán, it is all the citizens of europe. so we have a duty to hold you to the same rules and standards as everybody else. and then, finally, the real message of today’s debate is not about pointing the finger at hungary or criticising hungary. the strong message of the european parliament is that we are not willing to let hungary go. we didn’t walk the road to here, and bring hungary on board as a member of this family, in order to let go. hungary is a member of this family, and we will fight to get hungary back on track and give hungarian citizens the european values that they are entitled to, like anybody else. that is what we will be voting on tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, this resolution is a direct attack on hungary as a sovereign country and is fundamentally undemocratic. the aim is to bring under its control a democratically elected government of a country which upholds the principles of democracy, freedom and european and christian values. it is fundamentally wrong that the european parliament should act as the supreme judge and decide whether a national parliament should or should not implement legislation. apart from the fact that the basis for condemning hungary in mrs sargentini's report is also completely inadequate. viktor orbán is the only one who has respected the schengen treaty and stopped illegal migration. in doing so, mr orbán is defending european values better than the european commission itself, and my party fully supports the sovereignty of hungary. and as my party leader geert wilders said earlier: orbán has more backbone and character than all the cowards of the european union put together! you understand, we are voting against.
rapporteur. – mr president, some of the speakers asked why this report is based on sources from outside of the union; some called it ‘cut and paste’. i will explain why. it’s because within the union there are no reports being written that are benchmarks on fundamental rights and democracy per member state. for instance, the fundamental rights agency in vienna, one of our agencies, is not allowed to do that. and why is that? because member states in the union have been shying away from looking at the state of their country when it comes to democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. some speakers asked why hungary? why not romania, slovakia, malta? well, i’ve been here since 2009. if you look at my track record i have been supporting every debate that deals with rule of law in a member state, and i can tell you that romania is going to be on the agenda next time if you all agree with a proposal that the greens have made. and i know that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is going to visit malta and slovakia next week to look into the issues around the murder of journalists and corruption. i think that is important. but two wrongs do not make a right, and that’s the mistake a lot of people here are making. if you point to a mistake by somebody else, it doesn’t compensate for the mistakes you make yourself. i think we should keep that in mind. now, if you, as a representative of a minority grouping, manage to break through a glass ceiling, good for you. it doesn’t mean that everybody else in your society is able to follow you through the glass you’ve broken, and it is that possibility that society needs to create because, in the end, what is a government? a government is a service provider to its people – all its people – and a government that is elected with such an enormous majority has extra responsibility to bring along all its people. that is what article 2 is about: people. article 2 is about respect for human rights, including everybody, and article 2 is not about nepotism. nepotism is not a european value. i ask the house to vote in favour of this report. tomorrow commissioner juncker will talk about the state of the union. well, this is a decisive moment for the state of our union.
mr president, our copyright needs updating. but the protection of copyright, and ever more of it, is not the direction that europe needs. this has been a depressing debate with claims of fake news flying back and forth, rock star experts and aggressive lobbying from big companies, on both sides of the argument. but this should not distract us from the substance of what is at stake. so with 50 colleagues we seek a compromise that puts the public interest first and is proportionate between the need to enforce copyright but also to respect fundamental rights. so that means no upload filters, but proportionate remuneration for creators. it means no publishers’ rights, but presumption rights. it means new and clear text and data mining exemptions, which has not been discussed much but which is crucial for the development of europe’s artificial intelligence industry, which is something of great concern as well. we also speak of a freedom of panorama and an exemption for user-generated content. so i hope for your support, so that we can move on together and show compromise can work.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the situation in the gaza strip. there i saw the horrendous consequences of palestinian arson and rocket fire. with nostalgia, the kibbutz residents recall the bygone days of normal human contact with the gazan population. i didn't hear a word of hate. and by the way, the weekly incitement against israel continues. that's why i went to visit. where is the european parliament's vote? it still resonates today against israel, notably because of the country's highest court ruling against illegal construction in the khan al-ahmar area, despite all the generous, free government proposals to resettle the residents. where is the reasonableness of the eu and this parliament in relation to the state of israel? this debate is only worsening the eu-israel relationship, which my israeli interlocutors are rightly very concerned about this summer. we are thus increasingly eliminating ourselves as a credible player in the peace process. and that is sad.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i shall contribute to compensating for our being behind schedule, and use less than five minutes, because i think i took more time in the introduction, when i said everything i had to say on this. as i said, khan al-ahmar is located in the ‘e1’ area, which is essential for the future of a palestinian state. it is essential for the prospect of the two-state solution, and so we will continue to raise our strong concerns about israeli settlement activity, as well as the demolition of palestinian communities and livelihoods. we have repeatedly expressed our strong opposition to israel’s settlement policy and actions taken in this context, including the forced transfer of bedouins. i would add that israel, as the occupying power, has humanitarian obligations vis-à-vis the palestinian population in area c, which it must meet, starting with halting demolitions and confiscations, and returning confiscated equipment and structures. we continue to call upon the israeli authorities to reconsider their decision to demolish khan al-ahmar.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president. under the absolute leadership of president xi jinping, the people's republic of china is developing with great dynamism and ambition both internally and externally. accurate tracing and interpretation of this complex process is necessary for a realistic european approach to close relations with beijing. this report is intended to make a responsible contribution to this. with thanks, many thanks indeed, to the substantial input of the shadow rapporteurs. a key principle for a solid eu-china relationship is reciprocity. but i'd like to see it in all areas! for example, in terms of market access, but also in terms of freedom of the press. reciprocity builds mutual trust and is a firm foundation for a strategic partnership between the eu and china that deserves its promising name. however, reciprocity is an ideal, and this report also makes a clear reference to it. the report makes no mistake about the fact that from a european perspective there is growing concern about the policies of the single-party communist party of china. for example, when we talk about tibet, xinjiang, the sinicization of all religions, the social credit system, the militarization of the south china sea, the law on international ngos and the escalation of tensions in relations with taiwan, these are the topics that are particularly sensitive to chinese censorship. the european parliament's open approach to eu-china relations is consistent with the intention to promote the general welfare of the people's republic of china, in addition to the european interest. to use a winged official chinese expression: a win-win situation on the ground for the citizens! in the meantime, this report is also encouraging european self-criticism. china's ambitious global momentum, and thus also its ambition towards europe (keyword belt and road initiative), urgently calls for a well-thought-out european strategy. to mention just one major challenge: beijing is now considering northern and southern variants on our continent, following the controversial 16+1 format, with no less than 11 eu member states from central and eastern europe and five balkan countries. finally, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize the last sentence of paragraph 14 of the report: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i have had the opportunity to experience and benefit from such european expertise in the preparation of this report. from berlin to beijing! with the eu's adequate political application of its in-depth knowledge of china and its people, i hope that a european dynamic will be matched by a chinese dynamic and promote balanced relations between the eu and china. thank you very much. i have had a great deal of pleasure working on this report. it's my last year in office. but as long as i have my health, i will certainly continue to be interested in the eu-china relationship, because we are dealing with an extremely important trading partner and a rising power on the world stage. i was moved and still am impressed by the enormous expertise of the european delegation in beijing. the participants were genuinely concerned with the general european interests, but at the same time they also had an eye to the general, material and immaterial welfare of the chinese people. i understand that to mean mutual relations with a view to mutual understanding.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i promise to be brief. i will do so also because i want to stress once again what i said in the beginning – my full appreciation for an excellent, very balanced report which, as i said, reflects perfectly well the state of play, the strategy and the policy we have with china, regardless of some interpretations of something i did or did not say in this chamber. it is obviously a complex partnership, a complex relationship, where neither of the two sides hides, or intends to hide, the differences and the disagreements – even the profound disagreements – we have. we have two completely different institutional and political systems, based on two completely different sets of priorities and values. that is clear, but it is not a mystery either for us or for the chinese. the point is that in the current geopolitical context of today, we are finding out more and more that on some issues that are of strategic relevance and priority for us, the european union, autonomously determined, and for china, we have convergent views on some issues or possibly a convergence of interests that we can explore together, obviously in a very realistic way. we know very well how china approaches the rest of the world and the region. we are not shy in pointing out not only the differences, but also the problems when we see them, starting with the regional ones, from the south china sea to others, but we also see the potential for cooperation in some other areas. let me tell you, for instance, that the work that we do with china on afghanistan has an added value that is real. the same goes for the work we are trying to do with north korea. obviously we have different viewpoints, but there is common ground and a common interest in trying to move forward a policy that is compatible. let me stress two things that were raised here, namely our approach to two issues that are top priorities in china’s strategy and policy and where i see, finally – i think ana gomes was saying – an awakening on the commission’s side and hopefully for the member states as well. one is the work we are doing with africa on economic, infrastructure, energy and digital issues – on the non—traditional fields of eu-africa cooperation. i think you will hear a bit about this from president juncker tomorrow in the state of the union speech. i will present, together with other colleagues in the commission, the package we have adopted today in the college and about which president juncker will speak tomorrow regarding our sustainable economic partnership with africa. we are not doing it for china, but i think this response mirrors well the need we have to find potentially common ground or balancing ground when it comes to economic development in africa. the same goes for connectivity. i do not know if i can announce this, but i think that i can. next week we will present a communication in the commission on connectivity between europe and asia, based on our european approach, where we will see very clearly the differences we have, and i mentioned some of them. one is to avoid investments playing into the hands of a few, or one, but ensure that they benefit the people and the communities of the countries concerned – this is especially important for central asia, but also for europe – and that they respond to certain standards that are ours and not chinese standards. so clearly there are differences, but there is also a convergence of interests in improving the connectivity between asia and europe. coming from different points of view, we can on certain issues find common ground for work. i think this is exactly the spirit of the report, which highlights the differences – clearly, with no mystery and in a very candid manner – but also the potential areas for cooperation. that is why i would really like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work done.
rapporteur. madam president, madam high representative, thank you very much for your words of appreciation for this report. this is the result of cooperation with colleagues - first of all the shadow rapporteurs - but also with all those who have spoken here. i appreciate your concern. she was a backbone for me as rapporteur and i want to continue to work on it, because the work with china is continuing. i shall therefore continue reading in a calm manner and hope to make another visit to beijing in the last year of my mandate. finally, i would also like to express my great appreciation to my political colleague walter van luik, who is here on my left. he was my right hand man, who was extremely accurate in his measurements, his thinking and his contacts with the colleagues. because, let's face it, without a good staff, you're gonna feel like you're out of touch. i was not "unclean". i had two hands to help me. thank you again, colleagues. it's been a pleasure. i am thinking here of the meeting with the shadow reporters. you've sharpened my mind. what more do you want as a member of the european parliament? i can also say to the home front: the european parliament is the place where work and thought are done. in short, the 2019 elections are very important for the member states and for the whole political process in which the european union finds itself. i come from a critical environment with regard to europe, but i want to stress one thing: the expertise and assistance i have received from the european delegation shows the added value of a well-functioning, competent european embassy in a great power like china. i've been meaning to emphasize that for a long time, and i'm doing it with these. thank you very much!
i will speak in dutch, mr president, because i know that the president of the european commission understands that and because i want to say something personal to him today. i have said here in this debate on the state of the union for four years what i did not like and what i criticised. i would like to thank the commission and the president of the commission today because i see someone who, from the bottom of his heart - in english we say 'from his toes' - always advocates a common european solution, even if he is not in the spirit of the times. take the subject of migration: the whole of europe is crying out for better protection of our external borders. the european commission is proposing 10,000 border guards and, for example, a better, faster and more effective policy on expulsion and return. and you can hear the reactions on the flanks. how much is that gonna cost? who's gonna pay for that? does that not take away the powers of the member states? and who's gonna take the fall if nothing happens? europe and the european commission first! the state of the union debate is above all a call for responsibility and leadership. i hope that they will be shown, and i thank the european commission for at least setting a good example.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have to say that i’m a little bit confused having heard all the speakers, including ms trebesius who is now leaving, because apparently the fact that we don’t all have a proper pension later on is to be blamed on either evil neo-capitalists, the european union, the european central bank or immigrants. ms trebesius is not sticking around to explain that to me, because i actually think that we rely a great deal on immigration for our economy and for the future of our health-care and pension systems. never mind. i’m not really sure why we’re having this debate today on ‘fighting privatisation and strengthening public universal social security systems’. i mean it sounds as if a fierce attack were being mounted on our pension systems by private actors. i have not noticed that. i may not have read the newspapers properly but, as far as i can see, in those cases where there is an attack on pension systems, it’s twofold. one type of attack is by trade unions and left-wing parties who are refusing reform of the public systems, at the expense of the younger generation. they’re protecting the rights of the elderly. the average age of the board members of pension funds is, i believe, 56! i think there should be more 18-year-olds on the boards, deciding about their own future. okay. the second type of attack is actually by governments because the attack that i’ve seen in certain countries, mainly in central and eastern europe, has involved the government nationalising pension funds. this is basically doing what is being advocating here. they nationalised the pension funds in what i would call highway robbery, because people’s savings then went into the public coffers and were used for other purposes. in my dictionary that’s theft. in the pan-european personal pension product (pepp) report – because of course that’s at the root of all this – we explicitly emphasised the need for strong first and second pillars. nobody has denied the need for a strong public system, but there is also a third pillar – and i’m coming to a conclusion, madam president! there is a third pillar which may allow people to achieve a proper pension in countries where the state systems do not supply that. that is what we want to achieve. i hope those people will not be denied their rights. (applause)
president. - the next item is the report (doc. it is often a sensitive subject, especially in my own country, and that is not so strange. the european union has very little competence in this area. the member states are responsible for the design of their social and pension systems and this must remain the case. it's the only way. the differences in pension provision between eu member states are huge. it is impossible and undesirable to turn this into a sort of sausage for european unity. pension system deserve to be tailored. and that customization can be delivered at the national level, especially. but that does not mean that we do not share a common challenge. ageing, for example, is happening in all european countries. at the turn of the century, we had about four workers for every pensioner. in a few decades, we will be reduced to two workers who will have to pay the costs of one pensioner. so we are faced with a huge challenge in terms of the affordability of the first pillar in particular. this challenge is in all countries. we must therefore ensure that our legislation does not make it more difficult for those countries which already have successful second pillar pensions, but rather that we encourage other countries to set up similar systems. when we voted on the imps legislation here, we instructed the commission to set up a high-level working group to look at how to stimulate occupational pension provision. i would be very grateful if commissioner oettinger could give a little update on that. at the same time, i regret - as do others - that the left group is actually trying to create a kind of pseudo-opposition between the first pillar and the other pillars in this debate. an honest look at the future shows that if we want good old age provision for all european citizens, we need a healthy mix of the three pillars. the sooner the left realizes this, the better, for all european citizens, both now and in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elderly are cared for. that's got to be the priority. the search for financial products is often involved. that's very human. we'd rather let money work than work ourselves. again, that's very human, but not always wise. for three reasons: first, the return on money is low at the moment. interest rates are lower than ever. that means money will not work for us and yet there is talk in this parliament of a pan-european pension product. again, people will have to save money, and the money will not bring much. the interest rate is low. the yield is low. what we do need is people who stay fit, who enjoy going to work, and who can do that work, even later in their careers. but to do that, we need to invest, not save. the second reason is that money seeks financial return, whereas it should be about social return. not just profit, but people and planet. that's exactly what sustainable finance is about, which is a broader view so that pension funds and insurance companies don't just put money into fossil fuel companies, companies that violate human rights, or companies that evade taxes. there's also a social return. thirdly, there is no return without risk. so the point is that we should arrive at a fair distribution of those risks. we are not looking at an individualisation of the pension system, but we are looking at a collective insurance of risks, so that everyone can enjoy the benefits of old age and people do not have to fear old age.
president. - thank you to the rapporteurs and colleagues for the excellent cooperation. we're on the right track. this weekend, the plastic cleaner for the ocean cleanup project chose the vast soup of the pacific ocean. i am therefore proud of the initiative taken by boyan slat, a 24-year-old dutch student. he's started and he's understood what policy makers haven't really understood for years. we must act. now is the time to prevent the plastic soup from growing and taking over. the soup has to be cleaned up slowly by projects like ocean cleanup or the fishermen in the north sea, when they're fishing. we should help them too. unfortunately, this waste also includes a number of disposable forks and the like which would be biodegradable under the influence of oxygen but which do not appear to be biodegradable in the aquatic environment. we're being played. this is foam plastic! we must therefore move towards fully reusable plastics and an internal market for secondary raw materials. manufacturers must design products that can be reused. the production of plastic waste is unacceptable because microplastics pollute our environment and our seas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. substances of concern must not be allowed to enter the circular raw materials when reused, as others have said. commissioner katainen, it is time for a clear policy framework and better legislation. you have the efsi funds. let's use it for this, too. we've got plenty of work to do with this. and of course we have to work on the necessary promotion: mothers, children, students, everyone can do something about it. i would like to conclude by saying a few words to my english colleague who has just left. i would like to say: go on a day trip with the english fishermen. i hope they can convince you, because it's almost too late.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the oecd has found that in just 30 years, the use of antibiotics in the world has increased by as much as 67%. in human health, antibiotics are still prescribed far too readily. as many as 50% of the antibiotics prescribed are ineffective. in addition, in some parts of the world, large amounts of antibiotics are still being released into the environment through wastewater during the manufacture of medicines. outside the eu, antibiotics are still used in livestock farming as growth promoters to produce cheap meat. that is alarming, and it should be, when you consider that the effectiveness of the antibiotic is rapidly declining and that we are no longer able to treat simple and common diseases and infections. in addition, there has been no research on antibiotics since 1987 and no new classes of antibiotics have been developed. action is needed and countries cannot do it alone, the european union cannot do it alone, it must be tackled globally. i am a strong supporter of a paris agreement on antibiotic resistance. we need to crack down on abuse. we need to do a lot more research into alternatives like vaccination and develop new antibiotics and we need to focus a lot more on preventing disease in humans and animals than we do on curing it. and that can be done, as evidenced by several member states in the european union, where human health care is effectively using antibiotics. or in my country, where farmers have fully invested in new stalls, better hygiene and better management protocols. in seven years, the use of antibiotics in livestock farming has fallen by 60%!
i thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation, but i can say: a very good cooperation. we are facing a big problem, a problem that threatens our very existence. we don't think about it enough. antibiotic-resistant bacteria could become a threat by 2050 that disrupts our entire modern society, like the 2008 financial crisis. when will the european commission and the oecd agree on the actual current mortality statistics of antibiotic resistance? commissioner, you said 25 000, but others say 40 000. what are we talking about? it's not really about numbers. we need to get this thing up and running. parliament has rightly given a thumbs up to the dutch livestock industry, which has reduced the use of antibiotics by two thirds. but we also look at human health care: the reckless and often pointless selling of critical last-line antibiotics for a little flu! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. antibiotics are still cheaper than a pack of chewing gum or other things in some member states. that's why there are not enough new antibiotics being developed. alongside strong vaccination policies in the member states, europe must support the development of innovative new antibiotics. in the meantime, we are still waiting for a strategy to deal with pharmaceutical pollution. antibiotic-resistant bacteria in surface water pose an uncontrollable threat if we continue at this rate. i shall also be speaking on this in another debate on the water framework directive. europe must now act more forcefully! resistant bacteria don't stick to borders in these times of migration, and we're all dealing with that.
i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur for their work on the future of mobility. europe is on the move but faces very big challenges. and one of those challenges is road safety. how are we going to make europe's roads safer for all road users? every year 25 000 people die on european roads as a result of road accidents. i repeat: twenty-five thousand! i'm going to the bank. road safety in europe must and can be improved! the mobility of people and goods continues to increase, which is good for our economy and the prosperity of europeans, but it also creates more congested roads and traffic congestion. i am even more concerned about the environmental and climate damage that this is causing. our mobility can only be future-proof if it is also sustainable. the challenge we face cannot be met by individual member states alone. we need a common european approach, one that is committed to innovation with smart forms of mobility. for example, the development of self-driving vehicles. and that can contribute to fewer road accidents, better traffic flow and lower co2 emissions. but intelligent transport systems are also helping us to move more sustainably, safely and efficiently. i am therefore very pleased about european initiatives, including the european its congress. this congress will be organized in 2019 in the netherlands in my own region of brabant, in the cities of eindhoven and helmond. i would literally say: be my guest! because we are shaping the future of mobility together.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, whatever we do and whatever agricultural model we use, food production interferes with nature. and it has an environmental impact. it is our task and the task of the industry to minimise this environmental impact. that is why an integrated approach to crop protection is so important. we have to do a lot more to prevent a plague than we do to cure it. how do we do that? first, by breeding, to produce crops that are more resistant to disease. by focusing more on soil quality. with ecological innovations, like the use of insects and microorganisms, but also technological innovations, like precision agriculture, but then as a last resort to ensure that the harvest is not lost. to prevent food waste, chemical means are sometimes needed. what is important to realize is that the admission procedure we have here in europe for the funds is the strictest in the world. what i want to see is that the search for alternatives, for laxatives and biologics goes faster, that the admission system has specialized people for that, and that there is more manpower and more money to go and do this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. i also think that science should be as much a guide as possible and that we should be as transparent about it as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that's a very crazy name for substances that are not so much meant to protect, but mostly to kill. the commission has a duty to ensure that only products are approved which are not harmful to humans, animals or the environment. however, the european ombudsman concluded that the commission is far too flexible, leaving many substances unfairly on the market. according to foodwatch, the commission has been keeping hundreds of toxins on the market for years without any scientific assessment or evaluation. this has even resulted in a number of substances on the market that have been shown to be harmful to health. agricultural poison with glyphosate as a symbol shows what is wrong with europe. multinationals are putting the environment and money ahead of health. the special committee of inquiry into the authorization of pesticides could put an end to this policy of failure. unfortunately, as in the commission, the results of this study are not awaited in this parliament. a missed opportunity. just as the contents of this report are a missed opportunity. parliament had the opportunity to close back doors. parliament had the opportunity to change an old course of action. it had the chance to stop the many horrific animal tests for agricultural poison. but parliament has neglected these opportunities at the expense of animals, people and the environment. the future of our planet is at stake. i therefore find it incomprehensible that parliament has not seized these opportunities. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
author. – mr president, the arrests of ugandan opposition politicians, as well as serious human rights violations such as extra-judicial killings and the excessive use of force, were reason for the un high commissioner to call for an independent investigation and to ask for the perpetrators to be brought to justice – and this house today echoes that call. we also urge respect for the independence of parliamentarians: that is vital for the future of uganda, as is respect for freedom of expression and for the role of independent media. all our eu programmes are conditional upon respect for human rights and i think we should not hesitate to use that leverage, including in respect of uganda, in order to stand for our principles and to the stand with the people in uganda – who are worried, as is the human rights commission there.
for the enf group we are talking today about declaring may 9th an official holiday to promote the european union. this is part of the european promotion machine, a machine that is running at full speed. a striking example of this propaganda is the jean monet programme. every year, many hundreds of millions of euros are spent on education. one would expect this education to consist of carefully examining all sides of a story. but no, only positive stories about the union's supposedly phenomenal achievements are eligible for funding. critical sounds can whistle to a contribution. i have asked the european commission about this, because this cannot and must not be true. and, as we have seen this week, democratically elected leaders, such as the prime minister of hungary, mr orbán, are being insulted in this parliament and almost driven out with pitch and feathers. this is for standing up for his country. other countries, such as poland, can also claim moral superiority from the union. as long as you do exactly what the european elite ask, you'll be welcomed with open arms. but anyone who dares to criticize will have to deal with the euro-philists. criticism of borderless migration is immediately punished by the elite here. who thinks he has to decide for himself what is good for hungary and the hungarians. and to think that the talks on turkey's accession have not yet been suspended. this islamic dictatorship is being treated with velvet gloves, while a democratic prime minister from a democratic country is being ousted as a tyrant. it's hypocritical. that's two-timing. in short, it is typical of the union! are these the so-called common values of the european union? is that what we should be celebrating every year? let it be clear that we do not see anything in an official day off to promote the european union. it is also rather cynical that it is parliamentarians in particular who are calling for an extra day off. if there is one group of people who have more than enough days off, or rather take days off, it is the members of the european parliament! take a look around this painfully empty room. of the 751 members of parliament, only a handful have taken the trouble to attend this important debate. normal people are stuck in traffic at rush hour. the only chance of a member of parliament getting stuck in traffic is when he or she wants to sign a paper to collect the daily allowance and then leave parliament as soon as possible. arguing for another day off is a slap in the face to all hardworking citizens. there's nothing to celebrate about us. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. and yes, we also respect the judiciary. in fact, we respect the sovereignty of the rule of law, like poland and hungary, and this parliament does not do that by insulting mr orbán in this way. let me have said that. as to the fact that there is no one here, i can be brief. you may have a different view, but we in the netherlands - and i think in several european countries - have a five-day working week. so thursday afternoon and friday are also working days for us. you cannot tell me that all those people who sometimes leave midway through the voting or who run into each other to get out to catch a plane or a train or a car to go home quickly are all working. don't give me that crap! they just have an extra day off! and you know it, only you look away and i name it.
i have to say, i find it a little bit brazen actually. you call it modesty, but it's not modesty. that last thing you said was just rude. besides, you can pretend that everyone's working so hard on all those days that they're not here. that is true of strasbourg as well as brussels. then i'll give you a little help on the way. then why is it that every morning when you come in, you have to hold up your service card in front of those little devices to show that you're there? and then when you leave the building, you don't have to? they explained it to me. that's time management because then we can't check if you were actually present for four hours to be entitled to the daily allowance! and that's how the whole thing gets screwed up! you can all look the other way, but this is reality. this may not be true for everyone, but it is true for a very large group. and if you want more proof, i'd say: just come by and see me. then i can tell you a lot of other things that don't fit in here.
president, in 2007 the european union established rules to protect broilers, or rather broilers. now, 11 years later, this protection is still far off. still, these animals are locked in barren barns by the tens of thousands at a time, exposed to wet litter day after day, and most of the chicks will never come out and see daylight. this thursday, on world animal day, there will be a debate on the protection of broilers at 3 p.m. experience shows that at that time the number of members of the european parliament present will be too small to make a spear for these animals. i therefore ask for your support in adding a resolution to this debate. we are thus showing that the european parliament really cares about and takes animal welfare seriously. i propose that we vote on this resolution at the second plenary session in october. i'd like your support on this request. thank you, sir.
author. – mr president, the russian federation, including chechnya, has obligations it has taken on itself to respect universal human rights, and it is tragic that we need to remind putin and kadyrov of these obligations once more. the extreme violence against lgbti people in chechnya must stop, and perpetrators must be held to account. not only are there reports of concentration camp—type facilities, torture, extrajudicial killings and other severe violence, but in addition, honour killings take place and have even – very cynically – been welcomed by chechen political leaders. it is appalling, sad and unacceptable. kadyrov first claimed that there are no lgbti people in chechnya, then urged families to kill their loved ones and now suggests that media and civil society organisations are making up, inventing, the notion of lgbti rights violations in chechnya. we know that russian lgbtis and their experiences are not fake news. they are sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, friends and loved ones. no political or religious interpretation will ever change that. a number of lgbti people fleeing the violence in chechnya have found safety and shelter as refugees in europe. not only do these individuals remind us of our obligations, but also of the need to see people on the run, refugees, as individuals. that is essential and a much—needed antidote to the violent soundbites about groups of refugees we so often hear in our societies, in europe and even in this house. we need to stand up for the people in russia and their human rights, including lgbtis in chechnya. they are under threat and we need to fight for these people to be able to stay where they are in their communities, to be safe there and, if not, we need to welcome them here, now more than ever.
president. - international agreements on how to report to investors and other stakeholders are crucial in a world where borders are actually increasingly blurred. the insurance industry is lagging behind. i therefore welcome the international adoption of ifrs 17 in the coming years. that will incur irrevocable costs. harmonization and progress are not free. but i believe it is worth it, that the benefits will outweigh the costs and that the transparency and comparability will contribute to a much more efficient market. is the isfr 17 perfect? - no, i did not. are there standards that are optimal for everyone? - no, i did not. but that does not, in my view, change the fact that we are striving for standards that work for the european market and for european companies. this is also why efrag is currently conducting a study on the impact of ifrs 17 across europe. on the basis of that opinion, the commission and the co-legislators may then decide whether a delay is justified and, if so, under what conditions. the resolution of the parliament makes a number of suggestions to efrag for further study. we await those results with full confidence. new agreements will have to be made at the highest level, that is, at international level. i assume that the concerns already raised by efrag and the european market players will be taken into account. if there is indeed a substantial adjustment of the standard at international level, then i think we should be prepared to give europe a reprieve in order to allow a very careful transition.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). blockchain is one type of that, and it's going to have a huge impact on our economy. this is very positive because it can lead to more efficient markets, cost savings and better resilience against cyber attacks. on the other hand, the system is still in its infancy. i think it is therefore important that we look very closely at the challenges that this system poses. i think this resolution is a very good first step. i'm glad you did. this technology is also widely embraced by the financial sector. but we simply cannot afford to take any risks, particularly in this sector. there is no room for a quick-and-dirty approach as far as i am concerned. we must not close our eyes to the risks of the new digital systems. for example, when and how can it be seen that it is being misused? how are we going to protect our citizens in europe from this? this calls for rules to prevent the possibility of money laundering or tax evasion. don't get me wrong. i'm a huge supporter of this technology and i really believe in it. i do think that european legislation is needed to enable innovations like blockchain to be scaled up. i think the legislation should be facilitative. it must not stand in the way of anyone and must offer the right opportunities for the european market, because only then can we compete with the most innovative continents on this planet. investors and consumers have a right to secure digital systems. the netherlands is leading the way in this by creating an environment in which experts from government, business and the blockchain sector work together. i am proud of that and i would like to give the commission this consideration as a kind of encouragement. the foundation for the application of blockchain has been laid. now we need to get on with this in a safe, responsible way.
president. - i have three questions to the commission. first of all: the information that's linked to a blockchain is ultimately traceable back to individuals. that makes them vulnerable, not just to hackers but also to multinational corporations like google, microsoft and amazon. the system is inherently uncontrollable. it's in the design. how is the commission going to control this? secondly: according to article 21 of the general data protection regulation, people have an absolute right to be forgotten. with blockchain, the information goes on the internet and can't be reversed. how is the commission going to enforce the gdpr? and thirdly: the computation of blockchain takes a lot of energy. the two largest blockchains in the world, bitcoin and ethereum, now use as much electricity as the whole of austria. that growth is exponential. how does this fit in with the paris climate agreement?
the commissioner rightly asks: are we on course? let me just make a couple of points. firstly, there is a real population exodus from many rural areas. young, vital people move to urban areas in economically stronger regions for study and work, but many do not return. villages age fast. the forecasts for poland and romania are that the population will decrease by a quarter and in rural areas by half. that is why the regi committee, which has requested this debate, is calling for it from the point of view of cohesion. secondly, europe is facing major challenges everywhere, in the social, economic and technological fields. look at the debate we had earlier on digitisation, robotization and the circular economy. if you don't come with me, you'll be left behind. we think that the outlying areas should be included. thirdly: what does the regi committee want from you as the european commission? in 2016, we focused on urban policy with the amsterdam pact. the role of cities has since been strengthened in many innovative actions and can now be seen as a key element in your policy and that of eu funds. it is now time to come up with a pact for rural communities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. now it is important to unite these pilot projects and come to one action, this time not the pact of amsterdam but perhaps that of bucharest, or better still the pact of sibiu under the romanian presidency at the beginning of 2019. this pact should not be concluded between managers but, as in the case of the urban pact, with the stakeholders themselves, namely rural organisations. commissioner, it's time to act. in 2019, member states will start preparing the programmes for the period after 2020, in full cooperation with the second pillar of the agricultural policy, the european fund for rural development. experience with leader and the local initiatives shows that this involves more than the development of farms. socio-economic sectors also benefit. the rural villages also matter. many villages feel forgotten. anti-european voices are gaining ground. in 2017, representatives of rural communities called for a different course. the european rural parliament, supported by the council of europe and your commission, called for a pact on 29 november 2017. i quote: "we strive for a pact of rural communities and a european rule agenda to foster our contribution and participation on european scale, parallel to the pact of amsterdam for the cities. we are ready to contribute to a stronger relation between citizens in our communities and the european goals". i'm closing up. mrs crețu, you already responded positively to this request last year. commissioners bulc and hogan were also positive. the regi committee and the ppe group believe that the time has come for this approach. make 2019 an election year and a new pact. can i have your opinion?
madam president, with regard to the previous speaker, i don’t agree with her policy choices but i agree with one thing and that is that the attitude of the council when it comes to migration is absolutely shameful. the council has become the bottleneck for mainly all policies, but in particular migration, because the european commission has made proposals for a common policy, the european parliament has managed to agree, across the political groups on a policy. even the pope – and i am not known for praising the pope – is supportive. ngos are supportive. opinion polls show that the vast majority of europeans are very pragmatic and they expect us to act when it comes to migration. local authorities are taking a different attitude. there are 28 individuals, national government leaders, blocking any kind of decent and efficient asylum and migration policy. it is your responsibility in the council to unblock that situation. the same goes for the rule of law. i’m glad that the council has at least twice discussed the situation in poland, but i think you should take your responsibility and discuss the situation in other countries where there are reasons for concern, such as romania, hungary, slovakia and malta, but also finally agree to a broader mechanism that will treat all member states equally and gives an annual assessment of the health of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights throughout the european union and not dither any longer. finally, on brexit, i can see that the biggest ego in this house, mr farage, after making his speech has left again, as he always does. he is literally playing russian roulette with his russian friends with the well—being of the british people, and now by criticising mrs may he is trying to dodge responsibility for the mess that he has created and for which the british people are going to pay the price. i’m very glad, and with this i’ll conclude madam president, that the eu is united, because the real problem is not unity in the european union. the real problem is the lack of unity in british politics. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr etheridge, i come from a party that has actually won the elections – and we are in government now – with the noble rhetoric that you are talking about. maybe if you were to adopt the same rhetoric, then you too would finally get elected in your own home country. (applause)
mr president, brexit will only have losers on both sides of the channel. this year, a british report showed that all regions in the united kingdom will be affected. and that is not just the regions in the united kingdom, european economies like the netherlands are going to suffer billions in damage. i therefore sincerely hope that brexit can be reversed. perhaps by new elections, perhaps by a second referendum. if that fails, i hope that the british negotiators will stick close to the status quo, certainly not a 'no deal' or a hard brexit, and certainly not the checkers plan, because that is really just taking the piss out of the poop. we need each other even after march 2019, and that is why i ask for special attention to be paid to fisheries. we have shared the north sea's fishing grounds for centuries and we will continue to manage them together beyond march 2019. so, above all, no more stabbing each other in the throat, no more going back to the old fish wars, but working together. because after march 2019, our fishermen on both sides of the channel must be able to fish in the north sea and we must be able to trade our fish and fish products.
the european summit next month is crucial for the brexit negotiations. these negotiations are not about winner takes all. what is important is that there is finally a social deal. because if both sides continue to bluff and go all out for the win, they will be racing blindly towards the abyss of march 29, 2018. without a deal, one party will be the biggest loser in this game, namely the people of the european union. it's their future that's at stake. a hard brexit alone will cost every dutchman an average of 300 euros a year, let alone the bill the british will have to pay. that's why we need a trade agreement. a trade agreement that mutually guarantees social standards, respects european norms and values and protects all workers on the continent. in salzburg, a decent deal seemed further away than ever. i hope that at the next european summit the heads of government will finally have their say and come to the point. everyone wins with a social deal. everybody wake up, this is not a game. it's about people and the real-life consequences of a bad deal.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would ask the honourable member, in view of his very justified criticism of the human rights council, to look also at the united states' withdrawal. does not mr starbatty also think that we as the eu should withdraw our support now that things have gone so crazy?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. human rights violations committed in countries outside the union or blatantly tolerated or simply ignored by european companies are often not prosecuted, and certainly not in developing countries, where citizens have difficulty in claiming their rights or where governments cooperate with those companies for economic benefits. the need for a globally binding treaty to prevent companies from hiding in another jurisdiction has been demonstrated so many times. so it's very good that the united nations started a process in 2014 to get such a binding treaty. the fact that the draft text is now out is good, but a little more ambition is still acceptable. does this convention really cover all human rights or not? and will crimes by state-owned and local companies be included? and how are we supposed to enforce the treaty? what is the european union going to do in geneva? in the past, the european commission has been the brake on negotiations. does the european commission finally have a mandate from the council to start negotiations? i will be in geneva with other meps, and i hope that this time the council and the commission will be on our side.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of negotiating the new treaty on european union. almost half of the members of that council violate human rights wherever possible and that is clearly no restriction on joining or remaining a member. members like congo, saudi arabia, rwanda and pakistan determine in their sanctions which countries would violate human rights and which countries would behave properly. of course, you can feel it coming. israel is the biggest violator of human rights and the bravest countries are congo, where mass graves are still being discovered every day, saudi arabia, where if you, as a woman, put on your burqa for a sneeze, you are immediately sentenced to four years in prison, and i do not have to mention pakistan at all, of course. no, mr president, the united nations has turned the concept of human rights into a crude political instrument of power and has thereby lost all its value. the eu is too cowardly to act against this and is therefore partly responsible for this degradation and its victims. the united states, in leaving the human rights council, has chosen a pure interpretation of the concept rather than the corrupt version of the un. the eu should follow suit.
mr president, respect for universal human rights is in europe’s dna and should be the foundation of everything we do, from trade to development cooperation, from the way we shelter refugees to the approach we take towards new technologies. european leadership, also in making sure eu—based companies respect human rights no matter where they do business, is important. we have many examples to illustrate that. the exports of digital surveillance systems to dictatorships, slavery in the garment and conflict minerals industry, and north korean forced labourers working here in europe. but too often accountability lacks and if that’s true for europe, imagine the disregard for human rights in the rest of the world. so while we need to do what we can and show leadership, it is an illusion to imagine europe policing the rest of the world. governments in third countries need to be brought on board with ambitious human rights agendas and their companies should take responsibility too. i’m very interested to hear more about what our european position towards the un efforts on a binding instrument should look like, knowing that bringing any topic to the un can also lead to a watering down or a hijacking of our well—intentioned high standards. we must be mindful of what the end result could be, also with an eye on the level playing field and watching out that it is not other markets without regard for human rights that will be happy to take over our position.
mr president, human rights are among the core values of the eu. that is what article 2 of the treaty on european union says. but in practice, human rights are still often violated, including by companies. it is therefore urgent that we conclude a treaty which obliges companies to respect human rights, even when they operate across borders and thus escape national legislation. we have john ruggie's guidelines, but they are not binding. that is why a global un convention is necessary. the european commission does not seem to realise that it is not a party to this process. it's a un treaty between countries. the best role the commission could play in this regard is to support the member states and encourage them to advocate a binding convention. i would also like to call on the austrian presidency to take its role very seriously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unrwa has not been promoting, but blocking, a solution to the palestinian refugee problem for almost 70 years. the very decision by the united states to withdraw its funding from unrwa in its present form offers the international community a unique opportunity to make a responsible and radical change in the vital assistance to palestinian refugees. and that requires new rational criteria for palestinian refugees - no more automaticity - and also puts the sole responsibility for the integration of palestinian refugees in the palestinian territories on the palestinian authority itself. replaced in gaza by unhcr. look what happened - i have not heard a word from the commissioner - what happened to the unrwa staff yesterday, who fled to israel. mr president, give the unhcr the mandate to deal with the palestinian refugees in lebanon and syria. the eu's policy on the two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict is still in place, and brussels should support washington in this wake-up call to the palestinian leadership. the commissioner was just talking about reforms of unrwa. i've had insiders tell me how this place is being abused. wealthy palestinian families raise their hands and unrwa should not be a job machine? grow more fair workplaces instead of [unclear].
mr president, we are talking today about the level of european aid to the palestinians. now that the united states has rightly decided to cut aid, the so-called refugees must look for a new sugar bowl, and the european union is only too willing to continue to play that role. unrwa has a budget of over 1 billion euros a year. there are plenty of stories about the hiring of islamic terrorists, the funneling of european funds into the pockets of corrupt palestinian leaders and extreme expressions of jew-hatred. and what is the european commission doing? it is all right with them and they continue to give out hundreds of millions of euros a year. unmarketable and unacceptable. unfortunately, my own country, the netherlands, also loses tens of millions of euros every year. money we could spend much better in our own country. mr president, the matter is clear. every euro to the palestinians is one euro too much for us. stop funding hatred towards israel, stop perpetuating a so-called refugee problem and stop any kind of support for the palestinians.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, why is it that in the face of the worst conflicts, whether it is the conflict in syria or yemen as we’re discussing today, eu member state governments fail to reach a common eu position. i would ask the commissioner to also convey this question to the austrian presidency, because we need to solve the fragmentation – and therefore the lack of maximum eu efforts – as bloodshed on an unprecedented scale goes on and on. twenty-two million people need humanitarian assistance, and 8.4 million people are on the brink of starvation. it is 2018. children are being bombed, recruited as soldiers, or facing all kinds of epidemics that can also kill them. babies too weak to cry are dying, and this is all because of a man-made problem. it is a crying shame. we should focus, of course, on reining in iran as it helps the houthi rebels. but just as we do not allow the sale of weapons to these militants, an embargo should finally be adopted vis-à-vis saudi arabia. when the dutch government, along with the canadian government, sought an independent investigation into what was happening in yemen, saudi arabia pushed back. but the fact that france and the united kingdom helped water down the work of allies is unacceptable. the saudis led, and europeans followed. frankly, it is an image i never wish to see. instead, all focus should be on ending the bloodshed and the violence, so we support the un group of eminent experts, as well as the special envoy, mr griffiths. i believe that a referral to the icc, or to other mechanisms for accountability, is very much needed for peace.
mr president, in essence, this debate is about a question: what kind of car will the future consumer prefer? will it be the high co2- and nox—emitting combustion engine vehicle with quite high maintenance costs and very high fuel costs, or a zero—emission car with almost no maintenance costs and very low fuel costs, if any? i think we all know the answer: the good old combustion—engine car that served us so well for 130 years is ready for its well-deserved retirement. that also means that if in europe we want to build tomorrow’s car, we have to develop it much more quickly than we are doing now. market forces as we have seen are not sufficient, so the legislator should help. therefore, highly ambitious co2 targets are essential for the survival of the european car industry, and that we get climate and clean air for free with that is a wonderful side effect.
mr president, fascinating debate. maybe just that everyone is aware, as we speak here in the plenary, in korea people are discussing a report that will be published next week on 1.5 degrees. it will be very clear that our entire economy needs to go to zero emissions by 2050. the commissioner agrees with that, i even see him nodding. so that means that all the sectors need to deliver because not every sector can go to zero emissions. to my epp friends i would say that one of these is agriculture. once we are going to discuss agriculture i know pretty well the agriculture sector will say, not us. okay, then we need to do it where it can be done. and the transport sector, within the transport sector, co2 standards on cars is the most cost—efficient measure we can take now. so we should do that, and even the commission did some studies on it. one of them was a study which showed that if you go to higher targets, with these being 6% emission reduction annually, then you have the highest societal savings. by the way, the commission forgot to publish this one right away – later on corrected it, but forgot to publish it. that can happen of course – pure coincidence. then last week’s non—paper – even that paper showed that with the reduction target that the committee on the environment (envi) is proposing, 151 000 more jobs will be created. even that politicised paper of the commission showed more jobs when you go for higher ambition. so do we want the investments to go into the eu or out of the eu? that’s the decision. hopefully we will support the envi proposal.
i am glad, mr president, that the rapporteur is showing greater ambition than the commission has shown so far. i think it is really time for the transport sector to take responsibility and work substantially on co2 reduction and that we also avoid the shifting of ambitions between, for example, the transport sector and the agricultural sector, of 'who is finally taking real responsibility?' so i think we really need to take a step forward to get rid of fossil fuels, and i also see that car manufacturers really want to do that. car manufacturers are also thinking about the near future and there is a desire among car manufacturers to take a step towards zero-emission vehicles or at least vehicles that have significantly lower emissions than what we are talking about now. so i think we can also get car manufacturers on our side for that kind of shift and change. in short, mr president, i support the rapporteur's efforts and i think it is good for all of us and also for air quality.
mr president, as cda, we want co2 emissions from passenger cars and vans to be drastically reduced by 2030. all sectors should contribute to the objectives of the paris agreement. the sacred cow, the passenger car, must also contribute to achieving these climate goals, just as this house also requires great sacrifices from agriculture, the ordinary cow. climate innovation will create additional opportunities and jobs for the automotive sector and other high-tech companies in europe. economic growth and sensible, ambitious climate goals just go hand in hand. more ambition, combined with the closing of loopholes in legislation, will lead to strengthening our european automotive industry. more ambition will create more jobs for the european economy, both in car manufacturers and in the innovative companies in the field of electric cars and hydrogen production. more ambition also means less dependence on oil dictatorships and cleaner air in cities. european manufacturers are already investing heavily in electric car production in china. let's not get left behind. all sectors must contribute: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it would not be good if the transport sector in 2030 emits even more than it does now. that is why, together with the whole cda group, i will of course vote tomorrow in favour of my 40% amendment in the envi committee, which we tabled together with peter liese and karl-heinz florenz.
mr president, i find it amazing how brexiteers still feel the need to lecture the european union about the internal affairs of the european union. (applause) bye-bye. mrs prime minister, i’m very pleased that you’re here today to debate with us, but i have to say that i am disappointed at your speech. the european parliament is not the enemy. we are not attacking romania – we are all in the same family, but we are expressing our concern about developments in your country, so i would suggest that you embrace that as a hand we’re stretching out to you to help – because we’re all in this together. don’t seek confrontation with the european parliament. don’t be on the defensive, but see this as an attempt to create a culture of the rule of law and fundamental rights throughout the territory of the european union. i’m not going to repeat what has been said about following the recommendations of the venice commission or investigate the claims of interference by the intelligence services, but i would urge you to repeal the laws, the anti-money laundering laws and the laws on the freedom of assembly that are going to severely and unduly restrict the freedom of ngos. i would also call on all political parties – i know i cannot call on the government, but all political parties – to campaign against the anti-lgbti referendum. i also officially asked the presidency of this house to investigate claims that eu or ep funding has been used to fund the campaign against … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i warmly welcome the prime minister of estonia, mr ratas, to this parliament to debate the future of europe. estonia has a history of almost exclusive domination, first by germany, then by sweden and then by russia. after a brief period of independence, estonia was then incorporated into the soviet union. estonia knows what it is to be dominated. after the fall of the soviet union, it sought to join nato and the eu out of fear of its russian neighbour. in 2004, the eu seemed like a friendly, friendly alliance. but by now the people of estonia must have lost their shells. in recent years, the eu has introduced proposals for an eu army, an eu police force and a european public prosecutor, alongside proposals for internet censorship and restrictions on freedom of expression. we have just heard mr verhofstadt, who has now left the building, advocate an eu kgb. more and more smaller member states are being persecuted for their eu-critical policies. countries that want to protect their people from the devastating effects of open borders. mr. ratas, don't you recognize the contours of a new soviet union? what do you think the real need for an eu army is? not for protecting the external borders, because that's what we have nato for. the liberals in this parliament are the great advocates of an eu army and it was the liberals who allowed the armed pro-eu coup in ukraine to be applauded. it will be the liberals who will bring the tanks back into hungary. you thought all the countries in the eu had veto power? what a mistake. it is the original east german communist angela merkel who dictates, and the eu follows. estonia relinquished its sovereignty in 2004 by signing the cross. and you thought the threat came from the east? no, the threat is coming from the west. the eu's aggressive policy towards the east is a return to an old german objective. you should recognize that, right? i therefore advise mr ratas to seek to join visegrád 4, viktor orbán's hungary, which like estonia has been deeply affected by communist rule, matteo salvini's italy and heinz-christian strache's austria, because the shackles have been lifted. you may still think that a liberal democracy is a democracy in which the freedoms once so eloquently expressed in the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen apply. no, mr. ratas, liberal is just another word for communist. when people in this house talk about liberal democracy, they mean the socialist welfare state, they mean a new soviet empire. and i want to convey that to you in this debate, prime minister ratas, so that you can lead estonia on the road to real freedom and real sovereignty.
mr president, there is no debate for economists. minimum wages are good for people with jobs and bad for people without jobs. the insider-outsider effect is a devilish dilemma. however, the free movement of persons has added an extra dimension to this discussion. because full employment in the european union is an illusion, partly because the euro does not work, there are now endless numbers of people available who are disrupting the local labour market by wanting to work for meagre wages in another member state. the european union is not intervening by addressing this problem, but by hijacking the social agenda of the member states and imposing minimum wages. but fundamentally, that is not an answer. after all, the minimum wage in the netherlands is a millionaire's ransom in slovakia. the european social agenda also affects the legal freedom of negotiation of trade unions and employers' organisations. so it must be otherwise, unless it is a european value to distribute poverty equally. because it's not the employers who are causing the lower wages here. lower and falling wages are inherent in the internal market and the free movement of persons. mr. president, you have to work for a living. the labour market must therefore be accessible to local workers and disruption must be combated. i cannot therefore draw any other conclusion than that the free movement of persons must be called into question.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is a fine day for me. i remember three years ago when i went to my home in south limburg on a working visit to the police and judicial services. i visited men and women who work every day to ensure our security in the border region. that is not easy, especially in a province like mine where we have more borders with belgium and germany than with our own netherlands. what has always remained with me from that working visit is the frustration that there was about how difficult it is sometimes to freeze or confiscate criminal assets across the border. when a drug dealer is arrested and prosecuted in the netherlands but his money or his ferrari is parked on the other side of the border, it is very difficult to get hold of it. this is not just a problem in the border region. the commissioner has already said that the size of illegal markets in the eu is about eur 110 billion. we're not going to be able to confiscate more than one percent of that. so a lot of it just ends up in the hands of criminals. there's only one way to hurt these criminals, and that's in their wallets. criminals are not guided or stopped by national borders, so neither can police and justice. this new legislation will make it easier in the future to confiscate the money and resources of criminals on the other side of the border. that's very bad news for criminals and very good news for all of us. it also shows that the eu can tackle these kinds of issues, that eu rules can add value in practice and that we are able to translate the concerns of citizens in the border region into this type of policy. that is our main task in this parliament and i am very glad that we have succeeded in doing so today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, local and regional authorities across the european union are struggling with the challenges of migration. that is not because of the massive influx, because there are not millions of people arriving, it is because national governments have completely failed time and time again to take decisions, to adopt a proper asylum and migration policy. local and regional authorities unlike the council, cannot afford the luxury to fail, to dither, hesitate, postpone, turn a blind eye, play to the gallery, play into the long grass, so local and regional authorities do what government leaders fail to do, they act. local and regional authorities, but also ngos and churches, are taking their responsibility. national governments, instead of thanking those people, are criminalising them and punishing them for doing what any decent human being would do. courageous local and regional politicians get punished, like a mayor in italy who has been put under house arrest for helping refugees. but that is the world on its head. you know what i think colleagues? i think it is the 28 government leaders who should be under house arrest. maybe we should criminalise them for a criminal failure to act at great human cost. i don’t need to speak about all the shameful and despicable situations that we are facing, not just on eu territory but also outside the eu’s borders. i think it is deeply, deeply shameful. we are the richest continent in the world and we pretend that we are not able to welcome these people; refugees but also labour migrants. parliament has done its homework, and what we have done is we have bridged the political differences across the political groups, which is the responsibility of politicians. the commission has done its homework. now i expect the council next week at the jha council to show the same responsibility and finally agree on the asylum package, because that is what it has to do.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. apart from the usual challenges, they often have to ensure that large groups of migrants and refugees are received in a decent way. we have to help them do that. the way in which we will ultimately provide that assistance will be discussed in the context of the amf. but we also have to be honest and realistic. the challenge for many local and regional authorities is compounded by the fact that many people have arrived in europe in recent years who are not actually eligible for asylum. these migrants are not fleeing war or persecution, but are seeking a better future. the energy and resources required at the local and regional level to provide for those people ultimately come at the expense of the much-needed energy and resources we need to find protection for genuine refugees. so therein lies a real challenge for the european union. if we really want to reduce the pressure on regional authorities, we must prevent thousands of people without prospects of asylum from falling into the hands of criminal smugglers and risking their lives by trying to get to europe on a dinghy. we must ensure that asylum seekers who have been processed are actually returned to their country of origin. it is absurd that we only succeed in actually implementing a return decision in 30% of cases. many colleagues have pointed out that the statistics show that inflows have decreased and that the crisis is actually over. but let us not forget that there are still hundreds of thousands of asylum procedures in europe at the moment and that the crisis in this respect is far from over. we must eliminate this backlog and ensure that procedures are short, fast and clear. if we succeed in doing so, we can really alleviate the challenge facing local and regional authorities.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. i think we do recognise that in 2014 there have been major improvements in the review of public procurement, that we also no longer need to look at price alone, but also at quality. that's a major improvement. however, in the netherlands this has also led to some new problems. especially in care and local care, because in the netherlands that has been brought to the municipal level. in practice, this has led to many municipalities paying more attention to procurement rules when purchasing care and to an incredible amount of red tape to ensure that they comply with those 2014 rules. these problems should be a concern for the commission, especially a commission which says that better regulation is important. commissioner, two of my national colleagues have already put questions from the national parliament to the european commission and they have also made the problems known. but i would like to have your answers to two questions. first, are you prepared to give member states more room to prevent unintended negative effects of this legislation on the quality of local care? and secondly, when you evaluate the directive, will you look specifically at the effect of bringing social services under this directive?
author. – mr president, the ambitions of the united arab emirates (uae) seem endless. they praise themselves as young and high tech, and a country that has realised extraordinary growth. it hosts many international conferences and seeks a more active role on the global stage. reputation is key for the uae and i’m convinced that the arrest of ahmed mansoor, over tweets he sent, and the way he has been treated since, have not helped at all in this respect. but of course we’re not here to give the uae any pr advice. we are here to condemn human rights violations when they occur. mr mansoor has been recognised as a courageous human rights defender. he was the winner of the martin ennals award and served as an adviser to human rights watch. he is now in solitary confinement in secret detention. he is not allowed to contact family, has not been able to appoint an independent lawyer and has seen his passport revoked. around usd 1 million have been invested in an israeli-made digital surveillance system to track mr mansoor and his communications. i believe that it is essential that such systems, that are also made in europe, are not exported to authorities that violate human rights and that we set a new high standard in updating our own export control rules. in the case of mr mansoor, we see his actions as falling within the rights to freedom of expression and call on the uae authorities to release him. we also urge a review of the federal law combating cybercrimes to ensure that it is actually in line with international standards. i think it is essential that high representative mogherini also speak out, in unequivocal terms, about the case of ahmed mansoor, including during the next human rights dialogue with the gulf states. to anyone in europe considering a holiday in the uae, it is important to know what can happen after you send a tweet or when you ask for democratic elections. i find it hardly an invitation.
- a writer. mr president, i can fully imagine that foreign journalists are very unwelcome in xinjiang these days. because the chinese state party is testing the surveillance society in this western region with the indigenous uyghur population as human pawns. yet, from time to time, western correspondents succeed in painting a penetrating picture of xinjiang. this is how one uighur responds to the question of whether "safety" can sometimes mean insecurity for the people there: "yes, i am afraid", is his answer. because more than 100 relatives, neighbors and acquaintances have been "studying", that is, staying in re-education camps for more than a year. and incidentally, chinese officials are currently making mandatory "friendly visits" to uyghur families that have since turned into forced overnight stays. with this cruel anti-religious assimilation policy, beijing is setting world attention to a particular turning point in its ambitious belt and road initiative. speaking of pure anti-propaganda, self-harm is a thing of the past.
the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation of the poultry sector in the european union. in less than six weeks, such a chicken grows from a small chick to a two-pound chicken. they drop through their legs and they literally grow dead. in the netherlands, we call this chicken a plofkip. chicks took nearly six months to reach the weight of an adult 50 years ago, and now only 42 days. their short lives are a long road of suffering. they're crippled, they have foot ulcers, they have tremendous joint pain and heart failure. in order to ensure that as many chickens as possible survive, a huge amount of antibiotics is being used, and this is only because production and consumption in the european union must grow compulsively, at the expense of public health, the environment and, of course, animals. we must put an end to this by banning fast-growing breeds of chicken as soon as possible. in addition, chickens need space, fresh air, daylight and a free passage to go outside daily, and certainly to do so in the event of a barn fire. for the past 11 years the european commission has been sitting on its hands. her report, which showed that there were major welfare problems with the chickens, was six years too late and did not provide any solution either. i therefore count on the support of my colleagues, but above all on the support of the european commission, to finally tackle this and give animals the protection they deserve. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, you mentioned in your opening remarks that the brutal murder of journalist jamal khashoggi deserves our full attention, and with every day, new, gruesome facts are coming to the surface. while we started off by entitling this resolution ‘the disappearance of mr khashoggi’, it is only appropriate that we speak of his killing or murder at this point in time, unfortunately, and i hope we will send a strong condemnation of this brutal murder of a journalist.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think it would be wrong to say we’re going to postpone because of elections in one country, precisely because the mechanism that we have all supported here – exactly two years ago to the week – wants to move away from the external debates about one single country or another, and by postponing it you would actually give the impression that this is about one country or another. it isn’t about any particular country, it’s exactly as mrs rodrigues said: it is about a mechanism that is supposed to monitor all the member states on an objective basis, based on the same criteria. that’s precisely the idea. so that is not linked to any particular country, and i don’t think we will be discussing any particular country, we will be discussing the mechanism. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we would not support the proposal, but for a different reason, namely that at the last plenary we had a debate with almost exactly the same title, the role of local and regional authorities. however, the case of riace is indeed an important case. i would therefore suggest that we don’t debate it in plenary, but that we refer it back to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and have a debate in libe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think that it is very good that we are discussing climate and biodiversity at the same time, because we all know that we have global pledges on the table, but europe is not on track in meeting those pledges. that should be discussed. i will focus first on climate because i have only 45 seconds left, and maybe just to start with the presidency. to be very honest, your presidency conclusions on cop24 in katowice are just a repetition of what we already promised in the paris agreement: that we are going to look at our pledges on the table, that was the idea of the paris agreement. the council should take a step further and not just reiterate what we already promised in 2015. that brings me to the commission and a very plain question: i know that you have said that in your long-term strategy, mr cañete, you said that we are going to look at a zero-carbon for 2050 scenario. however, what does that mean for 2030? are you also going to make sure that that scenario will include, as the scientists ask for, that europe will move to -55% to -60% by 2030?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. that's their right. i do notice two things. these measures cost a lot of money. billions and billions of euros. and who's gonna pay for that? that is the taxpayer, that is the european taxpayer. not often the people in this room, because the vast majority of them don't even pay taxes in their own country. the second point, mr president, is that finger raised, that finger raised to the european citizens: "you can't fly anymore because it's very bad for the environment". mr president, this parliament is a champion of air travel. there is no parliament in the world with so many members making so many flights. so my conclusion is very simple: there's only one word for it, and that's hypocrisy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, i am replacing here today my colleague brando benifei who is the afet rapporteur on the 2019 budget. i would also like to express my gratitude to budget rapporteur daniele viotti. however, there is one negative element which will have far-reaching consequences for candidate country turkey, as has already been mentioned by the commissioner. we all agree that political developments in turkey are not doing well and, therefore, the commission’s decision to cut 40% of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) envelope is extreme but justifiable. however, on top of this and in contradiction with the vote in the foreign affairs committee, the committee on budgets has decided to cut another eur 147 million, this means that the very much-needed financial assistance for civil society and syrian refugees in turkey can no longer sufficiently be financed. i would, therefore, like to urge my colleagues to alter this budget line in such a way that the eu can continue its help for democracy and the rule of law in turkey and if there is no modification in the budget, we will hurt those in turkey who need us most.
today, mr president, we are discussing the 2019 budget, now with the council's position. once again, the necessary drastic cuts are not being made. the departure of net-payer united kingdom and the growing discontent of european citizens with the money-wasting eu is of no interest to the eu elite. i was hoping that the european parliament would demand major cuts to the budget of 164 billion euros, but even minimal cuts are voted down by the euro-lovers among us. another missed opportunity to cut, for example, the salaries and allowances of civil servants and parliamentarians. the eu depends on each other for fraud-prone subsidies, which seriously distort market relations. the so-called european values which are being imposed on europeans with all these subsidies are at the expense of the pockets of the ordinary man. in austria and italy the voters have already spoken clearly. we look forward to the european elections next year with great confidence.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for this proposal, because it’s quite a u-turn, isn’t it? when, in 2014, this commission started, it wanted to stop the regulation on reducing single—use plastic carrier bags, which our green rapporteur, ms auken, has strengthened in order to get reduction targets. this commission started, with better regulation against red tape, etc., to try to stop this proposal. but itʼs thanks to our green rapporteur that we got this proposal on the table, and it’s now a success of implementation. so i think that the commission has learned – and now finally also understood – that we can do more against plastic pollution to really go against single—use plastic: banning the plastic that is ending up on our beaches, making sure that we are reducing where possible, and also extending the producers’ responsibility. this shows that we can have a commission that delivers for people and the environment, and i do hope that this commission will continue that and stop this nonsense about red tape.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, although i might not agree with everything mr dalton says, i agree with one thing: that we shouldn’t forget in this whole debate that the biggest threat to democracy is still offline and not online, in populist movements, governments, even in the european union, who are trying to undermine democracy and the rule of law, and we should speak out. on the gdpr, differently to mr dalton, i think that we should go faster. first of all, gdpr is the best privacy law in the world, but if it’s not being implemented properly then it’s useless. we should be looking at the means that the data protection authorities have in order to tackle the challenges on the table. for example, the dutch data protection authority has about 150 staff. they cannot fight facebook. they don’t have the same means. secondly, you say that the investigations are advancing. but are they advancing fast enough? you say facebook is trying to fix its mistakes. i don’t know, i’m not terribly convinced myself, to be honest, because they may have fixed some mistakes because they had to, but they’re making new ones in the meantime – they’re not mistakes, they’re actually deliberately trying to circumvent the law. i hear that now whatsapp is being used increasingly to spread all sorts of nonsense online. that also brings me to new legislation. contrary to mr dalton, i do believe that we need further legislation in the form of e-privacy, which is indeed being blocked by the council, but the right-wing parties in this house have also voted against it. i really don’t understand how you can stand here and say ‘i’m terribly worried about what’s happening to our democracy’ and at the same time try to water down e-privacy. how can you do that? it’s hypocrisy. (applause)i think we also need to recognise that, in our very legitimate aim to strengthen security, we have very often very rapidly passed legislation that undermines the privacy and the legal protection of our citizens, and risks undermining the rule of law and democracy as well. we should have a proper evaluation before coming up with, yet again, new instruments for massive the collection and processing of personal data. finally, on a fake news and disinformation. i think we need a proper legal definition of fake news. what’s fake news? i mean i may think that one of my colleagues in this house is spreading fake news, and they probably think that i am. where do you draw the line between a political view and fake news? we need a proper legal definition before we take any measures against fake news, because otherwise it becomes arbitrary and then we are undermining our democracy for real.
president. - i do not have a facebook account. and yet facebook follows me, and with me, millions of others. the european privacy law protects facebook in this and not me. facebook is a monopoly. facebook has a political opinion too. in germany, facebook was found to block criticism of social democracy, but not anti-semitism. the european commission told me on 4 august 2017 that it had no problem with that. the european commission protects facebook, but not the jewish community. mr president, for many people facebook is the internet, for social contacts but also for news. that news is filtered by facebook. only neat leftist i assume opinions come through. facebook protects its premise, not the free press. president, the european commission has made arrangements with facebook for the upcoming elections. stories of fake news and voter manipulation justify, in the commission's view, the approval or removal of opinions from the internet. the european commission, however, has nothing to learn from moscow about influence. the commission is protecting the european union, not the democratic process. the european commission has a problem with criticism of the euro, criticism of the european union, criticism of migration, criticism of islam. the criticism is called populism and must be fought, but let it be my opinion. i think that the european union as such is a threat to the peace and well-being of its member states, and that is an opinion that has no place on facebook. my criticism had no place in the resolution we are going to vote on, because all my amendments were voted down. it's not a miracle. like facebook and the european commission, this european parliament is protecting its own position, not that of the citizens.
mr president, our message here six months ago was clear: the misuse of data of millions of european citizens is outrageous, facebook must change and mark zuckerberg must answer to this parliament. well, that accountability session came, but it was a fluke, partly because of zuckerberg's own demands. in the three good hearings we have held in this parliament, facebook has shown itself to be in no way serious about this problem. instead of people with common sense or people who actually have a say in the company, they sent the public policy team, the facebook lobbyists, the same lobbyists that were sent here earlier to lobby hard against our new privacy rules. so while we agree that facebook has made improvements, it's far from reassuring. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. another sign that facebook still doesn't believe in the importance of data protection or the way we deal with it in europe. so it's our job to instill that faith in them. good or bad. there needs to be a full audit of the facebook company and regulators across europe need to get to work to really check that the current practices at the company are in line with our rules. facebook also ran full-page ads in april to welcome the new european rules. so we're probably doing facebook a huge favor by enforcing those rules from day one, starting with facebook itself.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i was just walking into the chamber and i heard the commissioner talking about fairness. when i hear "fairness", i always think of the selmayr case. and then i think, how is it that i walk into this room and the first word i hear is fairness? selmayr, the most scandalous chapter in the book of this commission. and i am not even talking about a report by the european court of auditors on ccs. that's the carbon storage that 3.7 billion euros have been invested in. we looked at that and in doing so, we looked at where the money went. nothing happened with that. it's gone, all right? 3.7 billion people. as should the 2 billion that should be used for innovative renewable energy technology. gone, too. i therefore say to this commission, on behalf of the dutch taxpayer, thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the revelations about the brutal murder of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi demand european action so that perpetrators will be held to account. additionally, a regime that lies and deceives the international community cannot be trusted to handle war weapons. i applaud chancellor merkel’s expressions towards an embargo, but i wish it had been an eu initiative from the beginning. weʼve called for this in this house four times. unfortunately, our friends in the epp and the ecr have always been very reluctant to condemn the human rights violations in saudi arabia. some see the murder of mr khashoggi as a tipping point, but i see it as the cumulation of inaction when the human rights of the saudi people were violated over and over again. sakharov prize winner raif badawi continues to suffer in prison and has been flogged for expressing himself. the 50 out of 1 000 lashes administered almost killed him already. women’s rights activists are facing life sentences, and the kind of intimidation that we see here cannot be masked by the long-awaited so-called freedom for women to drive cars. and many human rights defenders such as manal al-sharif have had to flee saudi arabia already. the kingdom decapitates people with swords on public squares as a common form of capital punishment – around 150 people a year. homosexuality is punishable by the death sentence, and so is atheism. we now need human rights sanctions, including a ban on the export of surveillance systems used to track and trace dissidents, and i hope this house will support a strongly-worded resolution. while the khashoggi case is a game-changer, it would be a mistake to limit the lessons learned only to this specific case. the khashoggi case is not only a murder, but i fear it turns out to be a suicide.
mr president, the scene is truly grotesque. in a country where the press is silenced in every possible way, a saudi journalist is violently silenced. however, what exactly does the turkish government know about the utterly abject leaves no doubt about the utterly abject murder of khashoggi? president erdoğan has again failed to answer this crucial question today. meanwhile, media and politicians in europe have been stumbling over each other for days in calling for criminal sanctions against the perpetrator, the regime in riyadh. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the further imploding of the middle east must be prevented. i want to emphasize that. that danger, that late jamal khashoggi saw as a committed islamist and a spiritual relative of the muslim brotherhood see his writings, which i have studied absolutely not. he saw it differently, and with this political agenda, he served the washington post as a columnist. how was it possible - i wonder as a former journalist - a close friend of the late osama bin laden to be in your pages?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in today’s eu, independent judges are being dismissed, journalists are threatened and even murdered, ngos are harassed and intimidated. in the last two years alone, since we adopted the proposal for the drf pact, two article 7 procedures have been launched: one by parliament and one by the commission. the commission has also launched infringement cases and took a member state to court. the council organised hearings on the rule of law in that same member state, and parliament created the rule of law monitoring group for two other member states, as well as a plenary debate on yet another member state. so a lot is being done – and i have to commend the commissioner for his actions – but it is piecemeal and erratic. it is too little and, too often, too late. we need a pan-european mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the eu that is comprehensive and not fragmented; evidence based, not politicised; one that monitors all member states annually and is not ad hoc or incident-driven. exactly two years ago in this house, we adopted such a proposal: the drf pact. we proposed a fully—fledged interinstitutional agreement that we could have agreed on today. so why have the commission and the council so far failed to act on our proposal? you work on the rule of law, but your refusal to agree the comprehensive drf pact means that forces that demolish our way of life are always ahead of us. so it’s time to act because, commissioner, i don’t agree with you. the toolkit that we currently have at our disposal is visibly not enough. so, as the commission and member states drag their feet, parliament should move ahead anyway. i propose that we start our own annual drf cycle, including country reporting and a debate on the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in europe, in tandem with national parliaments, and we don’t wait until the council and commission are ready. because in conclusion, democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights cannot defend themselves. we have to stand up for them or they will perish.
i see mr krasnodębski's plea on germany as a complement, as support for what parliament is asking for, namely not to wait until the calf is drowned, not to drag on for eight years to finally get a two-thirds majority to start an article 7 procedure for hungary, but to look at the state of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in each member state, structured, annually, as a kind of visiting committee, as is done at universities. it is nice that the council takes up a subject each year and then talks to each other, but it is typical that the council still shy away from simply inviting the european parliament to come and explain the report on hungary. because that's all it is. so as long as we have to turn to outside institutions, namely the council of europe, the un, the osce, and our own fundamental rights office, to produce reports like mine on hungary, and do not allow for real country-by-country analyses, we are in effect turning a blind eye to the problems in our own region.
i would also like to thank my colleague carlos coelho, commissioners king and avromopoulos and all the shadow rapporteurs who worked with us on this result, and of course the council, in particular the estonian and bulgarian presidencies. i think we've achieved a very good result. the schengen information system is a crucial part of our security policy. it's a component that actually works very well, but we don't hear much about it. it is crucial that national authorities, police and judicial authorities can access information through this system on, for example, wanted persons, persons to be discreetly followed, persons to be arrested, missing persons and missing children, but also on stolen objects such as cars, passports or weapons. let me give you some figures to tell you what is happening to that system. it's accessed five billion times a year. we've logged over 70 million of these signals into that system. 450 times a day in the eu we have a hit based on this system. we have arrested 40,000 suspects on the basis of this system, 150,000 people have been refused entry at the border, 28,000 missing persons have been found, 200,000 objects have been recovered. these are all very impressive figures, but we can always do better and we must always do better, and that is why we are reforming the schengen information system. carlos coelho has already said a number of things, so let me go into one specific aspect a little more deeply, and that is the inclusion of return decisions in the schengen information system. this is an important step, because we all know that we are having great difficulty in actually returning people who have not been granted asylum in europe and who must actually return to their country of origin. at present, only 37% of cases are successful. that means that in almost two-thirds of the cases, people who came here, who were not granted asylum, stayed. that number, that percentage, must absolutely rise if we are to maintain the support for the common asylum policy. we need to improve this and the schengen information system can help us do that. now, when a member state has decided not to grant asylum and a person has to go back to their country of origin, we offer voluntary return, so to speak, put a tick on it and just believe that it is right. there are two problems here. first of all, we don't know if that person actually left. secondly, if that person turns up in another member state, the authorities there are often unaware that a return decision has already been taken in another country and we start over. we are solving both of those problems today. the moment someone actually crosses the eu's external border, the original member state is informed and corrected so that we can focus our energy on the people who are still here. police services can now see in the system whether someone is already marked as a person who should be returned to the country of origin, so that cooperation is much easier to make that happen in an efficient way. this is an important step towards making the return policy more efficient. at the same time, we must therefore be careful. that is why we in the european parliament have made sure that the safeguards in this area are also being seriously strengthened. the alert shall be deleted when a return decision is suspended or postponed. the principle of non-refoulement and the geneva convention are explicitly included. the safeguards for data protection are being greatly improved, both in terms of data retention and cooperation with third countries in this field. so in summary, mr president, we have succeeded in bringing the return policy one step closer to real efficiency, while ensuring that the safeguards and rights of individuals are respected at all times. that is a very good result and we should be proud of it.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank carlos coelho once again. i’m not sure that the term ‘partners in crime’ is the most appropriate when it comes to the schengen information system (sis), but i do very much appreciate the sympathy. i would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked so hard in a good spirit and a very constructive way. it almost makes me sad to think that, after tomorrow, this work will actually be finished. i don’t want to scare commissioner king but, on the basis of this experience, i am already looking forward to the next sis reform. we have worked on this legislation in a diligent and efficient way. we have a result that we can be proud of, as commissioner king said. sis is crucial for the security of our citizens. it already works well and it will work even better in the future thanks to this reform, not only in the area of security but also in that of migration management. these are two issues that are very important for many european citizens, and the fact that we have this result also shows that the european union can deliver on these key issues. i think that is very important. i am very happy with the result and i hope we can get widespread support when the house votes on this tomorrow. thank you very much to everybody concerned, especially my dear friend carlos. we look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
madam president, today’s debate is the monthly ritual dance with the council and i think many of my colleagues have already explained how we feel about the total inability of the council ever to reach any results. i am getting a little bit tired, mr tusk, of the monthly hollow words that we are hearing, of the bored look on your face when you are listening to the debate. you just seem to think, ‘ok, i have to sit through this, but at least i can go for lunch afterwards.’ nobody seems to be feel responsible here. you are the co-legislator, but the council has become a completely dysfunctional body. it’s a bit like the bermuda triangle of politics: you put proposals in there and they disappear, never to be seen again. it is total paralysis. you know what? it’s not just that the council is totally unable to solve any crisis at all; the council has become the crisis. and i dare to say more: the council, in its current paralysis, is a threat to the future of the european union. you have to ask yourself, as president of the council, mr tusk, ‘am i going to assume my responsibility for the european union or am i just going to enjoy this job for as long as it lasts?’ it is about time that the government leaders understood that they are also european politicians; they have a responsibility for this continent, for the european union, and they cannot content themselves with travelling to brussels or salzburg or whatever, having a photo opportunity and then agreeing not to decide anything, because i don’t think it’s even an inability to decide anything – it’s deliberate. the government leaders don’t want to decide anything. they are quite happy keeping everything that they have. but what they don’t seem to understand is that by not deciding anything, they cannot keep things as they are, because the world keeps turning – they cannot stop it. finally, on the asylum package: it is an absolute disgrace that after three years’ deliberation, there is still no decision. go back and do your homework, mr tusk. skip lunch today.
mr president, the remarks made by my group's chairman, mr kamall, this morning were unwise and incorrect. mr kamall does not seem to know that adolf hitler killed socialism by allegedly embracing it, with the result that many socialists have unfortunately lost their lives in, among other places, the concentration camps. i emphatically dissociate myself from his remarks. mr president, brexit is an irresponsible choice. there will be losers on both sides of the channel. that is a pity, because we also need the british to reform the european union. the eu should not interfere in everything, as the overly political juncker commission is doing at the moment. it is a pity that the british cannot help with that. i hope, mr president, like the hundreds of thousands of demonstrators on saturday, that brexit will not be achieved by a second referendum, for example. if that happens, if brexit does happen, i hope that the united kingdom and the european union can stay close together, because no deal would be a disaster.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in june 2005 i voted against the dutch referendum on the european constitution, now known as the treaty of lisbon. and i was opposed by the vast majority of the dutch. i was an official at the home office at the time and my fellow officials were misunderstood. why did the people not like the expansion of power in brussels? the house decided that the people were too stupid to have a valid opinion and the major parties, including commissioner timmermans, ignored the result. the netherlands acceded to the treaty of lisbon by a simple vote. that was illegal, because it was against the dutch constitution, but yes, all for the good cause, right? a decade later, the population has been shown to be visionary. the eu has attracted everything. the netherlands is not going anywhere. no more about border control, no more about migration, no more about his own government budget, no more about free political discussions on the internet. i would say that certainly with the latter the european union is beginning to get pulls from the soviet union, but yes, my lawyer told me that insulting the union is punishable. i can't believe this. so you cannot vote against the treaty, but you can insult it. you wonder: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. did i say "visionary"? fortunately, the treaty has proved to be the longest-lived. britain is all done. hungary, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, italy, all of them have a quarrel with the european commission. and romania and bulgaria will soon be added to that. spain is not, despite the battering of catalan voters. because it's okay to fight the voter's opinion. in spain, but also in the netherlands. in that respect, not much has changed in the last decade.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors. as coordinator for regional policy, cohesion, i would like to make a few comments. first of all: i'll see you then. a lower error rate this year. the budgetary reversal, the performance budgeting, has been made. first the money went very easily to the member states, now there must be an agreement in advance and then we also see in advance whether there is that commitment. a new practice has been introduced. second point: a late start indeed. the member states are just beginning to take off. and the result is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and it is inevitable: in two or three years, we'll have that whole pile of bills again. i'm glad you're coming with suggestions to do something about it. thirdly: you are right to say that there is sometimes too little coherence between, for example, research policy, horizon 2020, and regional funds. horizon 2020 is a bit like a beautiful airbus hanging in the air, but with no view of the runway. and there's a lot we can do about that. you have mentioned this and i also appreciate your saying that you will come back with further recommendations within two weeks. we'll look into it. but we're on the right track, and we just have a good chairman. thank you very much, klaus-heiner.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me begin by expressing my amusement at hearing two brexiteer colleagues being worried about red tape. i guess they would prefer to roll out the red carpet for terrorists. that is something that we should not do. we have to be very serious about the problem that the trade in illicitly obtained cultural goods presents. over the last few years, we’ve seen that, for terrorist groups like daesh in search of income, actually, there has been a prospering market of stolen cultural artefacts that links organised crime, money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities across the world. europe and also the united kingdom are not free of the risk of becoming a part of such schemes. that is why we had to take action. only in 2016, for example, two syrian freezers were seized at an airport in france. daesh has emerged as one of the key players. it is also destroying, looting and trading cultural goods for profit, but let’s not forget that they also do this to stamp out cultural identities as part of ethnic cleansing, which is among the most significant crimes that we know of. we need to tackle the illicit trade in cultural goods with trade measures and by harmonising rules and building on what we already know without burdening galleries and museums. we have come to a common definition of what cultural goods are and identified those most at risk, and are making sure that we have checks on the origin licensing schemes without placing unnecessary burdens on sellers and smes. it’s a success in the fight against terrorism.
thank you, mr president. commissioner, everyone is concerned about the environment and animal welfare. i'm very concerned about the growing antibiotic resistance myself. but it is also important to note that in many parts of the eu, there is a lot of investment in the livestock sector to invest in a better environment and animal welfare. for example, in some european member states, the use of antibiotics in the livestock sector has fallen by 70%. my point here today, and what i absolutely do not want, is that the good suffer from a competitive disadvantage to those who have not made investments. i therefore call for a harmonised approach in the areas of the environment, animal welfare and antibiotics. i am also glad to see that this legislation finally prohibits the preventive prescription of antibiotics in the livestock sector. we must therefore work towards a level playing field at european level, but not only that. i also think it is important that we look at a level playing field with regard to products that we import from countries outside the european union. how can you explain to a farmer in the european union that he has to meet all sorts of requirements, but that his product is next to a product from outside the european union that does not meet those requirements?
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president. commissioner, to really do something about climate change, we need smart and cost-effective policies. countries cannot solve this alone. they can't solve climate change on their own. we must tackle this at european and global level. so i'm pleased with this legislation, which ensures that when governments have to buy new cars or buses, we say that they have to be clean cars and buses. i think that is important, considering that, unlike most other sectors, co2 emissions from the transport sector are still rising. i also believe that the government should set a good example in the purchase of new cars, and i also believe that if you spend taxpayers' money on new city buses or other cars, you're going to spend it well. but the beauty of this legislation is that it stimulates the demand for clean cars, and therefore also increases the development of cleaner cars, making them cheaper and thus accessible to more people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i have to say i do get a bit of a ‘dieselgate’ feeling. when i hear the council speaking, they are saying: well, it’s the responsibility of the commission and we are going to listen to what the commission is going to do. and i hear the commission speak: no, no the implementation is the responsibility of the member states so they should do their work. we are pointing fingers again at this very serious matter. we are looking here at noncompliance of chemical companies putting chemicals on the market and they are non—compliant, not because of quality of data, but because the data is not there. it’s incomplete data and we are also not talking about just random data missing, we are talking about data that is missing on the most important issues for human health. companies are non-compliant with reach – one third of them. the important data is not there, and we all know that reach is based on one principle – and you said it, mr commissioner: no data, no market. and still we see it is on the market. so please, here is a big problem and it’s nice that the council is saying: ‘we take note of the report’, but that’s not enough. taking note – we do that every day, don’t we? the question is, what are the member states now finally going to do because the european chemicals agency (echa) has already been notifying member states for years that companies are non—compliant so it’s not new. we know it and member states know it. what are the member states going to do to those companies who are non—compliant? a very simple question you have to answer now. what are you going to do to those companies that are non—compliant? and then to the commission, please, we do know that echa do a 5% check, but they only revoked four files of the 40 000 since 2010. that’s totally not in relation with what we hear now on the one third problem. so what is the commission going to do to increase the inspections? and secondly on transparency – make clear which companies are non—compliant and what is the commission going to do in order that they are compliant? that’s your role.
in writing. globalisation brings new challenges, but also uncertainties. i believe that the european union must give a fair answer, in which social labour standards and environmental standards are given the highest priority. we must not lose sight of our standards and values, even when production is taking place on the other side of the world. europe can and must take the lead in promoting and enhancing social, labour and human rights. in any new or renewed trade agreement these issues should be explicitly included, such as the ilo conventions and the paris agreement. however, it is not just a matter of setting standards, but also of adhering to them. the civil society of our trading partners must play an important role in this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the standards are respected. globalisation affects us all in unequal ways. we need to minimize the loss of globalization. the answer to globalization may also be simple: no, we will not turn a blind eye to the fact that the lives of millions of workers are at stake.
thank you, mr president. mutual recognition of qualifications is crucial for our cross-border labour market. we have already taken the necessary steps in this direction in recent years, including the european qualifications framework. it is good that this is being highlighted in a positive light here today. but there are more steps to be taken. these steps do not necessarily have to be taken at european level. i am very pleased, for example, with a project that the province of limburg has started together with germany and the benelux countries to remove as many obstacles as possible to the recognition of qualifications at the regional level. because in a border province like my own beautiful limburg it is absolutely important that job seekers can also take advantage of opportunities on the other side of the border. first of all, they must have their diplomas recognised. it is important that we should support this kind of regional initiative, which will make it possible for people to benefit in practice from the positive effects of crossborder opportunities, and that we should therefore support this kind of initiative wholeheartedly and very warmly from this house.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, first i would like to point out that what we are going to adopt tomorrow is going to be a historic package for 2030. an energy package that is stimulating on efficiency, renewables and also making sure that we have a governance in place, that it’s not only numbers on paper but that we are really going to deliver. i think it cannot be stressed enough that it was really parliament, at the core, that raised the ambitions on all these files. the commission was probably forced by the member states to come up with a proposal that was written some time in 2014, but i have to say that the commission, during the negotiations, was helpful and realised that it could step up. it was helpful also in indicating that the numbers that were being used were outdated and that therefore we could do more on efficiency and renewables, which we are all celebrating here today. but it was really parliament that played a crucial role in achieving that. in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), we were very much focusing on issues surrounding biofuels and biomass. i think it is good to realise that, for the first time ever, we have sustainability criteria in place for biomass use in, for example, power plants. however, that was another big fight, especially with the forestry countries who do want to sell their biomass all over europe but do not want any european regulation. we are taking the first steps now, but you will see that more will be needed to make sure that we’re not just burning trees in coal-fired power plants in the future, which is still a concern for citizens. on biofuel specifically, i think the market signal is very clear: we are moving away from food—based crops and we are moving towards advanced biofuels. that market signal is very clear and it was also an achievement of parliament to make sure that the caps we put in place make sense. however, there is still one big discussion and that’s specifically on palm oil. we managed in the end, and parliament was very clear: we want to phase out palm oil. we have now agreed on delegated acts with a deadline of the beginning of next year, but we hear some concerns that forces in the commission are a bit doubtful about really making a strong proposal on that. let me be very clear: if the commission is not going to deliver on this, the debate on biofuels will continue forever. it’s in your interest to make sure that this system can work, but then you have to be credible on limiting the worst biofuels, palm oil in particular. we will be watching closely.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. president, commissioner, climate scientists around the world are concluding that if we are to avoid the worst effects of climate change, we must not allow the earth to warm by more than 1.5 degrees. but individual countries cannot do this alone, so european cooperation is urgently needed. i am therefore also pleased that the eu now has ambitious plans to save energy and to use renewable energy. but it must not become an end in itself. it is about reducing co2 emissions, and i also believe that we should seriously consider the use of nuclear energy. what i am very pleased about is that the criteria for biofuels have been tightened up in this legislation. because it is not possible that we use biofuels which emit more co2 than, for example, fossil fuels, and that this will lead to a collision in the production of these biofuels.
mr president, there are also sensible issues that are put on the political agenda by the establishment parties: clean energy or plastic waste in the wild or in the sea, we can't really argue with that. i do not think the eu should interfere, but these are sensible issues in themselves. the question is: why now? why all the excitement now? because when we talk about plastic in the ocean, it's been a problem for the last 10 to 20 years. during my time in the national parliament, activist groups and environmental movements came to tell me that. and they've been here, too. there are many members of parliament who are still sitting here, but so are the parties, who knew of the problems, they knew of the seriousness and did nothing. and now you do! and that's because old political parties don't really get moving until the political agenda is dominated by a subject that they don't like. and that, in this case, is migration and islam, the subject of my political movement. this is a very popular subject with the european public and therefore the old political parties are having to go crazy looking for a competing subject. and now they've found it. but that's not intrinsically motivated! if that had been the case, the parties which were already in power in the vast majority of our countries would have done something about it. and they didn't! you can blame them for that, because that has only exacerbated the problem. and you can agree with my political line on migration and islam or you can disagree with it, but it's been intrinsically motivated and consistent for 15 years.
the mediterranean is wide and the mediterranean is deep, but the bottom is still visible. fish and other marine species in the mediterranean are disappearing at an alarming rate, particularly in the adriatic sea, where half of all marine mammals and fish have disappeared in the last 50 years alone. scientists warn that the pressure on the ecosystem is so great that if we do nothing now, the point of no return is imminent. there's no going back if we keep going on this foot. the plant and animal species in the adriatic will be wiped out. i have been closely involved in the north sea and baltic sea fisheries plans for the past few years, and those plans were not very good, but this plan for the adriatic really beats everything. this is a carte blanche for overfishing, a carte blanche to eradicate anchovies and sardines, species which are very important for the adriatic ecosystem. i therefore think that the rapporteurs who drew up this fisheries plan should be ashamed of themselves. they are putting the survival of ecosystems at risk and i hope that parliament will put a stop to this. the adriatic needs a rescue plan, a plan that stops overfishing now and not in three years, now, as agreed in the united nations sustainable development goals. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. president, thank you to the co-rapporteur, mrs ayala sender, for her contribution. the committee on budgetary control has a historical focus on the legality of expenditure. but fortunately in recent years there has also been an increasing focus on efficiency. the hundreds of billions of euros we spend here must also serve a political purpose. spending the money is not for nothing. it's not about redistributing money. it is about achieving clear political objectives. the results of the research must be clearly defined and the results measurable. i hope that the european commission and the council, and the members of this house, will read the court of auditors' reports carefully, because they say time and again in almost every policy area that there is something wrong with that efficiency. last week there was a very critical report on the common agricultural policy as proposed by the european commission. it's great that we're going green, very much needed. but the way the commission wants to go green is with non-measurable targets, i.e. the money is spent but the environmental objectives will not be met. so a call to the commission on behalf of the committee on budgetary control: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i am very much in favour of spending more money on those issues, on those challenges that individual member states cannot tackle alone, such as migration, climate, security and innovation. but as with any company, any association and also in the national budget, if you spend more money somewhere, you also have to look at where you can save money and at least be critical that the money is spent effectively. the european parliament is completely wrong here! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that doesn't inspire confidence in the voters. it is pretending that there is a european money tree, instead of realizing that the money comes from the taxpayer. that is why i am also a strong supporter of the introduction of the so-called european salmon standard. if you spend more money in one area, you have to cut back in another to balance the budget. the european parliament, however, is doing the exact opposite. the commission is also proposing to introduce new european taxes before approving the new multiannual budget. this is not constructive. first, the european parliament must show that it can handle european taxpayers' money with care.
the majority of the european parliament, mr president, is in favour of an even more absurd and costly multiannual financial framework than the commission has proposed in the past. the netherlands is also ignoring the annual rebate of over 1 billion euros. the budget presented by the commission was already a disappointment, but the proposed amendments make it even worse. the budget is said to contain far too little money to solve all the problems that europe and the world can think of. but that is not the union's task either! what started as economic cooperation has become a multi-headed monster that meddles in everything, at the expense of individual states that are often very well able to solve their own problems. there is no need for brussels bureaucrats. i call on parliament to stop implementing the un's sustainable development goals, to stop pursuing an inclusive europe, to stop the obsession with gender neutrality, to stop the climate hysteria, to stop the islamisation of europe and to stop embracing non-western immigrants. finally, i tabled an amendment to maintain the dutch rebate. the netherlands has been paying billions of euros more than we receive for many years. the fact that the annual rebate is even being considered is ridiculous and unacceptable. this is the time to make adjustments and to cut the budget considerably. the failed eu project has cost far too much for decades. stop this madness!
mr president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to make three points. the first point is time is essential. the time. we need to make sure we learn from what happened last time. we were very late with the mfk and with the regulations. those first years for cohesion policy (2015-2016) were largely lost years. so not drilling, but budgeting is what our people are asking for. the second point is the unprecedented reduction in the cohesion fund, 46%, partly because we have done well, because the economies have grown in the new member states in particular, but still. we now see that 10 billion euros are again being proposed from that fund to the connecting europe facility. in the committee on regional development we have adopted a position: proportionately, an appropriate share. we have said that 4 billion would be a responsible transfer and that any further transfer would be rejected. the third point i would like to make is the synergy between the various budgetary chapters, between, for example, research and development, the knowledge economy. we see that horizon europe, horizon 2020 in particular, is being used for 90% in the old member states. we cannot have a crooked europe. my final proposal is that these cohesion funds should be used more effectively to promote the modern knowledge-based economy, including in the new member states.
thank you, mr president, and before i ask my question to the chancellor, i have to get something off my chest and it regards our colleague in seat number 20: mr farage. i would say to our guests, don’t take his grandstanding too seriously. this is a man who actually led his country, led his party, to a brexit vote, only the next day to admit that he lied and tricked and jumped ship to leave his party. this is not leadership. it’s a circus. secondly – i’m glad you’re here mr farage – he says he doesn’t want to be part of a german european union, yet he has made sure that two of his children have german passports. this man wouldn’t know hypocrisy if it stared him straight in the face! mevrouw de kanselier, u heeft gesproken over een europees leger. kunt u de mensen in nederland geruststellen dat het dan niet gaat over een europees leger, maar over een leger van europeanen? dat het een nationaal besluit blijft om mensen uit te zenden, maar dat we inderdaad veel verdergaand moeten samenwerken?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in a world that is changing fast and with authoritarian power blocs acting increasingly assertively, the eu needs a strong foreign and security policy now more than ever. we heard chancellor merkel today sharing her vision of a european army. now the question is, how can we get out of the often fragmented approach that we see in europe today? on arms exports, i would like to make three points. firstly, countries need to share their interpretation of arms controls rules, because currently we see member states failing to even make four submissions. secondly, dual—use items, including hacking and surveillance technologies, are currently insufficiently controlled. our house has adopted a very strong position already, which includes respect for human rights as an assessment criterion before granting a license, and we are waiting for the council to take its position so that we can enter into trilogue before the end of our mandates here. my third point is that we have been crystal clear about ending exports of arms to saudi arabia. in fact, we voted for it in a majority four times already, and i want to echo our appeal to member states again today to stop selling the very arms that are causing such extraordinary bloodshed in yemen, and the humanitarian price that we see of that war is far too high for anyone in europe to contribute to it. european companies combined represent the second largest market of arms, so making sure that this industry serves our political objectives and respects minimal ethical and international legal standards and values is essential for a common european credibility. of course, we don’t have a magic wand to spread peace in the world – we would be happy to use it if we could – but at least what we need to do is act seriously to avoid the export of instability.
president, commissioner, rapporteurs, thank you very much for your report. i was pleased to be able to play an active part in this compromise in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the updating of the connectivity, which is actually already in place, the new communication. i would like to make five points: 1. very happy with the maximum prices for calls and for sms; the second. the same rights for consumers when concluding and renegotiating a contract; the third. the fact that reverse 112, that warning system, that dutch alert.nl, is now being introduced europe-wide; 4. other improving accessibility for people with disabilities, large group, very important; the fifth. guaranteeing that speed, that capacity, even in the countryside. that's how we make that move. the legislation was ten years old. the world is not standing still. we're at the time now.
rapporteur. – madam president, we are going to discuss here a file on regulating co2 standards for heavy—duty vehicles for the first time in european history. i think that it is very important to stress that quite a few regions in the world are already putting co2 standards in place, like the united states, canada, china and japan. they have all put co2 regulation in place on the heavy—duty vehicle sector. europe hasn’t done so yet. but we now have a proposal on the table from the commission for co2 standards for heavy—duty vehicles, and i think that is of course a very welcome development. why? because, if you look at heavy—duty vehicles, this is one of the sectors in europe that is fast increasing and where co2 emissions are also fast increasing. for now, total eu co2 emissions are at a level of 6%, of which 25% is from road transport and it is increasing. we know that to meet our climate targets agreed in the paris agreement we need to go to zero emissions. this absolutely means that special attention needs to be paid to the heavy—duty vehicle sector, which this proposal is doing. for context, what we know is that, if you want to be paris compatible, the heavy—duty vehicle sector needs to go in the direction of minus 40% by 2030. that analysis is from the dutch institute, tno, who say that for compatibility with the paris agreement, you need to go to those kind of reduction levels, and we’re not there yet. that’s also why we as a parliament, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), agreed on raising the ambition level compared to what the commission was proposing to a level that we say should be minus 20% by 2025 and minus 35% by 2030. i want to stress that this level of minus 20% by 2025 is, according to the impact assessment from the commission, also possible with existing technologies. we know of course that, if you look to the longer term and we need to go to lower level ambitions, then we need to have an improvement in technologies because existing technologies can get to a level of minus 30%, but not much more than that. this means that we also need to prepare for new technologies in the heavy—duty vehicle sector and that’s why, also in envi, we have been proposing a zero and low—emission vehicle mandate to push the market into new technologies. the definition of zero and low—emission vehicles is broad, so it’s not necessarily electricity – it can also be other technologies. we are not subscribing to any technology, but are pushing just for a mandate on zero and low—emission vehicles of 5% by 2025, rising to 20% by 2030, in order to prepare the market for these new technologies to arrive in order to get to the deeper carbon cuts that are necessary for implementation of the paris agreement. we are also putting forward a specific mandate for buses. i want to stress that this is important because in some of these markets the truck producers also produce buses and, if you have just one mandate and mix them all, you can create an unfair market. therefore it is important to have separate mandates for buses and trucks because we know that on buses we can move much faster we can than on trucks. the mandate is also for all the trucks, not only the bigger ones, so that you can also achieve those zero and low—emission vehicles mandate for smaller trucks. my last point is that there was a big discussion on the fine. let me say very clearly that we would like to stay very close to the commission proposal because, if you lower the fine to such a level that it’s easy for the producer to pay it, what you are putting in place is just an additional price factor – a cost factor of production – and i don’t think that is what we want to do. to conclude, i would like to thank all the shadows for all the good cooperation. on many compromises we had broad support, though not on others. we do of course see some amendments on the targets. that’s to be expected. but i would like to thank all the shadows for their great cooperation. i think the vote in envi, where 47 people were in favour and only six against, shows that we had broad support in that committee, which we hope also to maintain in the plenary. (applause)
madam president, i assume that if you asked most europeans if the co2 emissions of trucks and buses are tackled in the eu they would say ‘yes’. i assume that they would be surprised if we explained to them that that’s not the case up till now. so i’m very happy that we are finally catching up with other parts of the world. that’s not only necessary to keep the paris climate agreement in sight, it’s also necessary, as commissioner arias cañete already emphasised, to safeguard the competitiveness of our own truck manufacturers in europe. let’s not forget all those truck operators, which most of the time are sme companies, that can save tens of thousands of euros if the trucks that they’re using are much more fuel efficient – a very important element as well. finally, i’m a great supporter of a separate and ambitious target for zero—emission buses. our european cities are struggling a lot with air quality. let’s not get the same problem as with zero—emission vehicles, that the clean buses are simply not available if they’re asked for. so please also vote in favour of that part of this great report by our colleague, mr eickhout.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his replies and to thank my colleagues for this very good discussion that we have had. i feel that there is quite some support for what we did in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which is very good. to touch on a couple of issues that have been raised, first, on the level of ambition, we have to be very clear here that we have already adopted national binding targets for 2030 under effort sharing. this means that we know that if in the transport sector we are not reducing our emissions enough, reductions will need to come from the other sectors that fall under the effort sharing regulation, being housing or agriculture. if we don’t go for the cost—effective reductions that are possible in transport, it will mean that agriculture needs to deliver more in those countries where they will have difficulties in meeting their reduction targets. all the analysis shows that a co2 standard on cars and heavy—duty vehicles is the cost—effective way to reduce emissions in those sectors that fall under the effort sharing regulation, and that’s what we’re doing here. on the level where we, as envi, say that we should raise the bar to 20%, i once again want to stress that, in the commission’s impact assessment, it’s very clearly stated that an analysis of the cost—effective technologies already at hand shows that full deployment would make it possible to achieve emission reductions between 15% to 20% by 2025. this shows that the existing technologies can be achieved with the 20% target. on top of that, we need to develop new technologies and that’s why we are making this regulation consistent with the cars. in the cars we had super credits and now, later on, the commission is stepping away from that in cars and comes up with super credits again in this regulation. we think it’s better to skip that mistake that you made on cars and immediately go into a mandate for zero and low-emission vehicles at a very low level of 5%. my last point, on buses, is that it’s very important to realise that there are producers producing both trucks and buses. so if we have one mandate, you are giving very clear priority and a benefit for those who are producing both because, in buses, we can move faster, and the market is moving faster. that’s why we have decided on separate mandates for buses and heavy—duty vehicles – in order to make sure that the level playing field remains equal for all the players in the market for new technologies. once again, i thank everyone for the discussion. i’m looking forward to the vote and then indeed, what is the intention? a fast resolution in negotiations, hopefully to start under the austrian presidency.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much. i will not make a long speech; i will only say according to the fourth subparagraph of rule 59(4) that the plenary gives a mandate for direct negotiations with the council.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. "all that is of value is defenseless". if we do not act, lucebert seems to be right, and so we must now ensure the resilience of our democracy by acting against foreign influence. that's a difficult balance to strike. i have just listened to the last three speakers who are actually saying in the context of media freedom: let the russians pull the strings here. the eu is quickly accused of propaganda. but doing nothing is not an option! i will give you the concrete examples, especially for the profession behind me. let me start in my own member state, the netherlands. the day after mh17 was shot down, putin's troll factories went to work three times as hard to shift the blame via social media towards ukraine. then there is brexit. there are also findings that kremlin trolls wanted to influence the referendum. worse, we already have a ruling party in our own european union that uses manipulated video footage on social media. i welcome the proposals of the european commission. the fight against this is very necessary and must be fought on several fronts. first of all, of course, to make people aware of fake news through education and through political awareness campaigns, in close consultation with the member states. that's where it all starts. we need more transparency. this can be done in consultation with tech companies, but also through legislation if those companies do not come across the bridge. it's about transparency about funding, about where it's coming from, about who's behind political ads and about algorithms on social media platforms. actually, we have to think a step further. because what about developments like deepface, for example, where video footage is manipulated in such a way that politicians are put words in their mouths that they didn't say themselves. in fact, truth or development has already caught up with us and we may have to do more, dear commissioners, than is already on the table. we support you in that.
mr president, a person’s right to vote by secret ballot and universal suffrage for his or her own government representation is enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and this very right is now being challenged by foreign actors – and russia has been mentioned but it is not alone. many are using misinformation as a form of hybrid warfare or even more sophisticated techniques, such as deep fakes, through ai and machine learning, to deceive. they’re meant to erode the trust in the public debate and in liberal democracy itself. so there’s a lot at stake and we must do what we can. what i missed in the introduction by the commissioner, which i generally thought was very comprehensive, is a notion of an assessment of the very business models of facebook, youtube and others, that are designed to sell more advertisements. whether or not that lists conspiracy theories on the top, it doesn’t really matter for them, they are not developed to advance democracy, but i do think they should respect the rule of law. in that context self—regulation is not enough. i think every chance has been taken, and we’ve seen that it’s not enough, so responsibility has to be taken, algorithmic accountability is needed, a sector inquiry is needed and we need to look at bots. bots don’t have freedom of expression the way individuals do. we need transparency of politically—funded advertisements and in the use of micro—targeting. we need stress tests of our election technology, because the weakest link can hurt all of us. and political parties and candidates needs to be prepared, and so should journalists, in how they may or may not deal with leaks. in other words, we need accountability. the survival of liberal democracy is at stake.
i remembered the cartoon popeye, the sailor who only after a can of spinach was strong enough to protect his girlfriend. just as popeye had to protect olive against the rogue pluto, so we must protect our european democracy against rogue foreign actors. we saw it in the elections in the united states. we saw it in the brexit referendum. we saw it in the netherlands in the investigation into the downing of mh17, which left nearly 300 people dead. our job is to make sure that this list of examples stops here, that this undermining of our democracy stops. with the european elections coming up, it is certainly an important step towards strengthening our resilience in that area much further. the creation of the stratcom task force was and is a good idea in principle, but let us do it well. it wasn't until january of this year that money was put into this team: the amount of the loan is eur 1.1 million. by comparison: the russians have already spent over four times that on a brexit campaign alone! we cannot afford to be complacent and to express our concerns, especially as the european elections are approaching. just as popeye needs spinach to defeat pluto, so we in the european union need powerful weapons to stop this kind of foreign interference. let us at least make sure that those weapons are delivered from this house.
interference in an election. i could be talking about putin's troll army or the italian deputy prime minister who calls journalists jackals. but i want to talk about american interference. facebook has insisted for years that it is neutral. but with all that neutrality, it has allowed fake news to be fabricated in a small town in macedonia, dark ads to affect filter bubbles, and cambridge analytica to get away with 50 million profiles. this is how facebook has contributed to trump and brexit. in 2016, about 1.4 billion euros was spent on online campaigning, which facebook and zuckerber are making money from. zuckerberg is promising to make things better. but it has to be faster and it has to be better. i would like to see a compelling european approach, full disclosure of spending for a political purpose by facebook (who, what, where, when) and finally also an ex ante test on the algorithms, on the formation of public opinion. because let's not let facebook impose its will on our democracy, but the other way around.
president, commissioners, secretary of state, it is very good to have this debate here. democracy, here in this house, but certainly in all the member states, is paramount. we are observers at elections all over the world. we'll count the votes to make sure they're in the van, and then we'll check the whole procedure around it. but now we are in our own danger. actually, this is a very serious moment. i have contributed to reports on the critical infrastructure of the internet in europe. now, our democratic elections, everything around them, our order, are such a critical part of our infrastructure that we shouldn't let ourselves be taken over from the outside. i was in israel earlier this month. when you look at what a country like that is investing in their cyber security, in their resilience, and you compare that to what we're doing in europe, we have to find the sixth gear. it is essential that we increase the resilience of the assistance we provide at all levels for elections. a very specific point, which was also mentioned by the commissioner: the check that is now applied to some of our major platforms should be mandatory. there should be a button on all these big sites and platforms that you can press to indicate: i see this message, how did the funding come about? what influence is behind it? are these videos real? it will have to be different, because the challenge is different.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. a big thank you to the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism for the good cooperation and of course thanks to the many imco members and shadow rapporteurs who contributed to the original opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which they were able to accept almost unanimously in the end. that's a good signal for the passengers. i think the end result is very good, especially in terms of compensation. i do not agree with the commission that this would be outside the scope of the recast. we have clear justifications for this. however, you cannot explain to passengers that they will only be reimbursed half the ticket price if they are more than two hours late. that is something that should be addressed in this initiative. there's good news for the disabled. they can count on assistance quickly and do not need to give days' notice of their arrival at a station. the bikes were reported, that was important too. there's really only one point left. let us not, please, allow railways to say that it was bad weather and that you lose your rights as a passenger. we've seen too many leaves on the tracks, even in the netherlands, as an excuse. we shouldn't want that. we shall have to decide that tomorrow at the vote.
traveling by train is a sustainable alternative to the polluting car or the kerosene-sniffing airplane. if we encourage more people to take the train more often, we will contribute to making our mobility more sustainable. we will then contribute to the achievement of the paris climate targets. but then we have to make rail travel across europe a lot more attractive. this proposal will strengthen the rights of rail passengers throughout europe and i think that is a step in the right direction. the new rules will allow train passengers to receive up to 100% of the ticket price in the event of delays anywhere in europe. and that's a big difference from the situation today. now only 50% of the ticket price can be recovered. a second point that has already been mentioned: the passengers can more easily take their bicycles on board the train. in a bicycle country like the netherlands, this is of great importance. we will also ensure that transport to the stations and the journey to the destination is sustainable. the third point is that it will be much easier for passengers with reduced mobility, for people with disabilities, to take the train in europe. they can now count on assistance on the platform without having to arrange it days in advance. it'll make their travel arrangements much easier. ladies and gentlemen, let us vote tomorrow on the proposal to make trains more attractive in europe. not only will european rail passengers be grateful to you for this, but so will the climate!
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). they accumulate in our adipose tissue and can be passed on to our children through breast milk. despite restrictions on its use, this poison is still found in abundance in milk and eggs, as well as in animals such as birds, fish, and seals, on clothing, in the soil, and in groundwater. that is why we must ban all persistent organic pollutants without delay and without exception. and of course we have to replace these substances, but not with other poisons. in the netherlands, the highly toxic perfluoroacetic acid has been replaced by genx. although genx is also likely to be carcinogenic, it is used without any warning in the anti-caking coating of pans. we're now finding genx everywhere in the environment! that is incomprehensible! these substances do not belong in our environment, in our water, or in our bodies! i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), or the nuclear deal that was agreed by the major global powers at a critical time, was actually fatally damaged by president trump’s withdrawal. but that doesn’t mean that there’s nothing we can do and that all is lost. a reduced nuclear agreement may still work, but i think we, in europe, have to be realistic. of course, high representatives ashton and mogherini stuck out their necks for diplomacy, and that was the right thing to do, but preserving that legacy cannot be a goal in and of itself because it also had a shadow side. i think human rights and the violations that we see every day in iran, as well as iran’s troubling role in the middle east, were overlooked, and rebalancing our european approach towards iran is very important and should not be hindered by needing to defend the jcpoa. attempts to maintain policy independence and to give european companies maximum choice to do business are the right steps to take; they are positive. the eu lifted sanctions as it’s part of the deal, while iran commits to verification of nuclear enrichment. but to push or even punish european companies for choosing to drop business with iran under threat of us repercussions is taking it too far. additionally, the whole impression that the eu and iran are in one sort of camp and that the united states is in another camp is deplorable. we are both liberal democracies, and that should be leading. i think the way forward for us in europe is to broaden our iran policy and to include, very ambitiously, human rights and foreign policy concerns while continuing to take reasonable steps to stay committed to our part of the nuclear agreement.
in writing. although i hoped it would not be necessary in the meantime, i will mention it again: we need to close the pay gap. on average, women earn 16% less than men. although progress has been made in the past, recent research shows that the gap has not narrowed for two years. meanwhile, women are at increased risk of poverty, especially single-parent families and pensioners. this is unacceptable and inexplicable, if you ask me. gender equality in the workplace has not yet been achieved. leave for the birth of a child should not be a restriction on a career, but should be a right for everyone. unpaid work such as housekeeping or care should not force people to work part-time. let's give everyone the opportunity to find their own work-life balance without gender affecting it. equality is not a matter of chance, it is time for action and there is much to be done. the extension of paternity leave is one example. providing good and affordable health care services is also important. these include child care, elderly care, and facilities for the disabled or chronically ill. the solutions are ready: let's close the hole once and for all.
the increase in lyme disease is a matter of great concern and a major problem. there is no european consensus on treatment, and diagnosis and screening of lyme disease is not discussed, and national practices vary considerably. unnecessarily many patients do not have access to the treatment that is appropriate for them or do not receive the correct diagnosis right away. i also speak from personal experience from our own family: my cousin just had the effects of lyme disease and its bacterial infection last summer. he went to the gp. the family went to the doctor, and the doctor just says to this kid, you just have the flu, go home. at the last moment, he almost died. it's all right. but these consequences are also being discussed in austria and we must work together on this immediately. because even the gps don't know what's going on. i therefore welcome the european commission's implementing decision to include lyme borreliosis in the list of communicable diseases. let us now all recognize this terrible disease as an occupational disease and promote research and awareness raising to prevent it. but not only that, the whole family, our whole neighborhood was wondering: what are we gonna do about it? it's not just people working in the wild. they're kids who ride bikes, even from cities. it's the civilians too! it just requires a national approach and thank you for your efforts.
author. – mr president, a staggering 160 human rights activists are in prison in vietnam, reflecting the systematic repression in the country: from free expression to freedom of belief, all the way to the abysmal prison conditions and the application of the death penalty. we call on the vietnamese authorities to respect human rights and to release those only detained for exercising their human rights. we urge access for un special rapporteurs on human rights defenders, the working group on arbitrary detention and the un special rapporteur for freedom of expression. we remind the vietnamese authorities that human rights are a clear conditionality when it comes to trade relations. and i wanted to specifically zoom in on freedom of expression, online and offline, given the fact that vietnam ranks 175th out of 180 countries on the reporters without borders’ list of press freedom in the world. they really have to start respecting the rights of freedom of expression, online and offline, and the least we can do in europe is to stop the export of surveillance systems that are used to track and trace human rights defenders.
i would like to put to the european commission and also to the eu delegation in havana two major concerns of the churches in cuba. first of all: because of the explosive growth in the number of christians, the churches are in dire need of new houses of worship. however, the cuban government does not allow this new construction, even in registered churches. commission, your embassy in havana, i trust you will defend this essential core of religious freedom - worship in legal houses of worship - against the cuban authorities. or do they seek a rampant growth of house churches? i can hardly imagine. second point: christian organizations in europe have been ready for years to provide basic social care to all cuban citizens in need, but without the current harmful government controls. the cuban government created an illegal auxiliary circuit of its own. the commission, the eu delegation in havana, is convinced that bilateral aid from outside europe should be 100% directed to the citizens in need. that's social, that's for cuba!
author. – mr president, shahidul alam is well-known photographer and a human rights defender, and under the controversial digital securities act and ict act for online speech, he is now accused of ‘speech that hurts the image of the nation in bangladesh’, while we consider it to fall under his right to freedom of expression. we call for his release and for the dropping of all charges against him. sadly, alam is not the only one repressed in bangladesh. there is a pattern of harassment, arrests and enforced disappearances, and we call on the high representative to assess whether bangladesh still complies with the trade arrangements we have under the ‘anything but arms’ agreement, because conditionality and accountability are very important when it comes to human rights and we must do what we can to improve the situation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the collapse of the rana plaza factory was a wake—up call for the whole world to improve the working conditions in the ready—made garments industry. unfortunately, at the end of the month, due to a highly questionable verdict, the bangladesh accord will be thrown out of the country. this means that the safety of thousands of workers in the garment industry in bangladesh is at stake. as we all know, the government of bangladesh is not yet capable of taking over the inspections of the garment factories, and, as we all know, the labour law reform in the country is still pending. as we also all know, freedom of association is not guaranteed in bangladesh. therefore, let us be clear to the bangladeshi authorities that they need to get serious about workers’ rights and safety. if you want to use the eu trade preferences, you have to fulfil the commitments we agreed upon.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, a big welcome to the danish prime minister. i must confess that i have a bit of a weak spot for denmark, coming from the netherlands myself. i am thinking not only of the landscape and the windmills – the old ones but especially also the new ones are a good example – but also the people’s character. danes are pretty stubborn, you can’t tell the danes what to do and in that they are very much like the dutch. i mean, they have the same sort of character. i must say that, when you started, mr prime minister, the reactions like ‘the eu has too much power’ or also ‘it is not good for the ordinary citizen’ sound like what i am hearing in my country. at the same time we have the, now famous, 84% of the danes saying that the eu has brought denmark advantages. i really am a bit puzzled how you could bring these together. is the eurobarometer representative or is your public consultation representative? what is the real opinion in denmark at the moment? now, the other particular aspect of denmark is all its opt—outs. to go through them one-by-one, you have opted out of eu citizenship. i have asked my danish colleagues what that means – nobody knew – but perhaps it is relevant in the context of brexit. it would be nice to know if there is a difference between how the rest of europe will deal with british citizens after brexit and how denmark will deal with them, or is this just not a problem? then, on justice and home affairs you have an opt—out. in 2015, the danes confirmed that they didn’t want an opt—in, instead of an opt-out. again, the question of organised crime doesn’t stop at the danish border. do you think you will have another referendum shortly on this issue, and what is the general opinion these days on that? then on the opt—out on defence. it has been mentioned by others, we had a meeting in copenhagen, hosted by you, of the liberal prime ministers in europe. apparently, the european army was discussed there because at least the dutch minister of the interior said, ‘yes, in the long term we are in favour of a european army’. is that true? do you share that opinion or what was the outcome of that meeting, because there’s a lot of confusion about it. you have no euro but are pegged to the euro. i can see that denmark is not doing so badly at the moment. my question there, again, is there still discussion on the euro? do you think this is a better solution than being part of the euro yourself and having the euro instead of the danish crown? just one or two minutes on the single market. i think that we can safely say that the single market, as such, brings economic benefits, but the point is always: to whom? and if we look at the general situation, then i think workers, employees, are generally of the opinion that the single market works better for employers, for the factor of capital, than for the factor of labour and work. i’m just curious how you see this. if you see the new single market programme of the commission, the word ‘employee’ doesn’t occur anywhere. so no money for the workers, whereas we also see commission proposals for mobility of companies. but where is the voice of the workers? if your company, where you have worked for many decades, suddenly goes to another member state, does the worker have to right to say ‘no, we don’t want that’? do we give a golden share to the workers for these type of decisions are so important for their daily lives? also, this morning we had the transport trade unions at our group and i saw a documentary on 200 filipinos being exploited in denmark because of the freedom of movement of services. it was completely legal, this works via subsidiaries in poland which hired filipinos who are now being used all over europe, and especially in denmark. how can we counter that, and make these practices illegal? and how can we counter the fact that, for example, ukrainians are now working in the polish construction sector, while poles are working in the construction sector elsewhere in europe? that’s not right. so i call for there to be a single market for workers too, what are your views about that?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank both commissioner šefčovič and commissioner arias cañete very much. i would like to congratulate them on this visionary document. it’s a really fundamental document. i would argue that it’s the most radical transition of our economy and society in 150 years, and that is quite something. it means that climate change is not business as usual. we have to do things differently, not in an incremental way, but in a quite radical way. in that sense, it’s essential that we build the trust of citizens, as my colleague, ms van brempt emphasised, but also the private sector. one other thing is very obvious to me. we have to be focused, we have to be united and our policies have to be coherent. that means not just mainstreaming a part of our budget like we’re doing now. it means climate-proofing the entire budget. my plea is that the commission should launch a climate-proofing exercise of the next 2021—2027 budget proposal. i do not think we can leave it like this after you have published this fundamental document. the commission should also look again at its plans for sustainable finance because just sustaining a very small part of the financial sector will not be sufficient for this fundamental change of our economy and society.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commission for this strategy. i quote mr šefčovič, ‘our strategy now shows that by 2050 it’s realistic to make europe both climate neutral and prosperous, while leaving no european and no region behind’ – it’s beautiful – and mr arias cañete, ‘going climate neutral is necessary, possible and in europe’s interest’. it’s a beautiful press release, so i was eager to read it. i’m a bit confused now because, at the end of the document, you conclude, ‘well, you know, the eu should adopt and submit an ambitious strategy by early 2020 to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), as requested under the paris agreement’, so our mid—century strategy for this beautiful scenario will be published sometime in early 2020. now i’m really confused. i thought we were doing that here. this is just eight scenarios on the table and, more importantly, it’s avoiding one of the key questions: what are we going to do by 2030? if you are sketching a beautiful scenario out there that we should do it for everything – for people, for the economy, for the environment – so we are creating a heaven on earth, but we wait until 2030 before we take additional action, it doesn’t make sense economically. environmentally it doesn’t make sense because the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) was very clear: we need early action to meet the 1.5 degrees goal. 2030 is not early action and for katowice, it doesn’t make sense because everyone will watch europe. are you going to raise ambition before 2030? there is a gap in reaching the paris commitments. this document is beautiful, but this document is avoiding the question ‘what is europe going to do by 2030?’ that’s the question in katowice. that’s our economic and our environmental challenge, and the commission is just postponing, as always. unfortunately, i can only conclude that, despite the nice words, climate change policy is not a priority for this commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in the report on hungary that this parliament voted in september, we addressed the issue of the central european university and its insecure situation in budapest. since then, things have got worse. i have to conclude that the hungarian government is on purpose trying to ruin a highly regarded university and it sends a message to its people that it looks down on academic debate. i’m outraged, not only at the hungarian government, but also at the 27 member states that have still not found the courage to correct their fellow member. how is it possible that, in europe in 2018, an academic institution is being bullied into closing down? is this our europe? this is such a bad example for the rest of the world. i stand with the central european university, and all prime ministers should do so too.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. president, what a schizophrenic! on the one hand, mrs edstädtler, state secretary in the austrian government, speaks on behalf of the european council. she's been talking her way around it, but the austrian government won't sign. on the other side is mrs mogherini, who represents not only the european commission but also the council. fortunately, it does embrace the global compact for safe and orderly migration. we are really being made a fool of as europe! it was pretty logical that donald trump wouldn't go along. but we, in the europe of the soft powers, were going to show the world that we could also come to an agreement together to ensure that migrant children go to school, that a return policy is implemented, and that children are not left without papers but can make a living. this was our moment to ensure that we were no longer held hostage by the migration crisis from 2015. but what do we do? we make it an internal game and forget that we are setting standards that also apply to africa and asia.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). we hear different stories from eyewitnesses. so i went with my colleagues in this parliament to look for myself and we found something quite different. in croatia, for example, i saw this image: a bull is tackled on one leg on a cargo ship. the animal was exhausted and jumped overboard in panic. the seriously injured animal was then transported on board to lebanon. it's unclear if it ever made it there alive. these are not incidents. this is the daily practice. and it's still going up. romania announced last week that it would immediately transport 200 000 sheep to the middle east on a ship which has been banned in australia from transporting animals because of repeated and serious animal suffering on board. i therefore ask for your support for an urgent debate with commissioner andriukaitis on thursday afternoon, because we cannot allow this animal suffering in europe any longer.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much. we don’t have a lot of silence yet, but let me start by thanking all shadow rapporteurs for their wonderful cooperation; we had very smooth negotiations in order to find compromises. so let me start by thanking them for that. secondly, i would like to thank the european commission for its strong proposal for the prolongment of the life financial instrument, which is – let’s face it – the most successful financial instrument that we have in europe. it is very effective, it’s very efficient, and it’s extremely relevant. it’s loved in brussels, but also in the member states by industry and by civil society. i think it’s an example of how european financial instruments should work. it plays a wonderful catalytic role to initiate, expand and accelerate sustainability, and its main success factor is that it’s quality—driven. it is not spoilt by politics. that sounds a bit strange in this political arena, but it’s quality—driven. as far as i’m concerned, as rapporteur – and i found quite some support for that among the shadow rapporteurs – we should continue to keep it quality—driven. of course, even a successful programme can be improved, and there are two elements that i would like to highlight here. first of all, the original fund is far too small: we have eur 5 billion. that’s why this parliament already, in an earlier plenary resolution, asked for an increase to eur 7 billion – very important. the second point is that it should have more coherence with the other eu funds. life is very successful, but too many other european funds are going against the interests of biodiversity, nature and the environment, and especially the strategic integrated projects under the life programme play a very important role here. i would like to highlight two more political elements that were also discussed in this house. the first is that this life budget can only be relatively small if all other eu budget funds are not going against the interests of the environment. that is a very crucial point, also made in all the impact assessments by the commission and in the introduction to the life programme by the commission. it can only have this limited amount of money if the other eu funds are not going against it, and it’s very important that we monitor that after the mff has been improved at large. the second, more political, debate is about national allocations. i’m very happy that we found a compromise among the shadows and that we did not fall into the trap of moving towards national allocations, but that we found a compromise on a bio-geographic balance, which means that we take the ecosystems in europe as a basis and not our national borders. finally, i would like to make some comments on amendments that have been tabled here in plenary. there is one epp amendment that explicitly mentions the agricultural sector and forestry to include them even more strongly in the life fund. i would like to emphasise that, under the current life, agricultural projects are very much eligible. we currently have 136 projects ongoing, and so it’s not only superfluous; it’s also behaving a bit like the very hungry caterpillar. there are agricultural funds of eur 400 billion already reserved, and this limited fund of eur 5 billion should not be more strongly focused on the agricultural sector than it already is. finally, regarding the other amendment from the epp on large carnivores: i know it’s a political debate and it’s worthwhile having that debate here, but putting it among the general objectives of the life programme, which talks about climate, environment and biodiversity in general terms, and then adding large carnivores as equal to those general objectives doesn’t make a lot of sense to me. let’s have that debate when we discuss the other, more individual, parts of it.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. this week, for example, i'm working on legislation to address unfair trade practices. what we are doing a lot of is making sure that legislation for farmers, which comes mainly from brussels, is workable and that farmers can get away with it. what i'm working on, in particular, is that we can start using more animal manure instead of fertilizer. but one thing we seem to forget, and that is something that has been worrying me a lot in recent years, is the appreciation of the farmer and the gardener. because if you open the newspapers now, the farmer is very often used as a scapegoat for climate change, biodiversity loss, environmental impact and you name it. but we seem to forget what farmers have done, for example, and we take it for granted that they are doing nothing. but here are the numbers. the carbon footprint of milk has fallen by 32%, of pork by 35%, of poultry by 46%, of eggs by 38%, of veal by 50%, of sugar by 41% and of greenhouse farming by 59% since 1990. in the last three years 15 000 hectares of agricultural land have disappeared in the netherlands. in the same period, 11 000 hectares of nature have been added. the leaching of fertilisers has fallen dramatically in the last 20 years and many hundreds of plant protection products have been banned, some of which have no alternative. whatever farming system you use - whether conventional or organic - in producing food, you always have an environmental impact and you always interfere with nature. we need to make sure that impact is minimal. 80% of farmers in the netherlands say they would like to achieve this. now we can do two things. one, to see the farmer as a scapegoat and not have any respect for him or two, to see him as an important partner in making agriculture more sustainable. i am glad that in this new legislation for the life programme, which provides money for climate and the environment, they want to take up that glove and want to work with farmers for an even more sustainable agriculture and horticulture.
president. - mr president, there is economic growth in europe. the gross national product is rising in almost every european member state. but what does the average citizen see in his own wallet? hardly anything. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but where's the money? i'll tell you what it is. we're going to talk about climate today. there's a whole big pile of money behind that, grant money. pits of subsidies filled with taxpayer money available for major projects. and who benefits from these projects now? in my experience, not even the environment. it is the bankers and the big multinationals, because they know perfectly well how to empty those subsidies as skillfully and quickly as possible. in the netherlands, mr president, the average dutch household will pay an extra 300 euros on their energy bill next year. this shows once again that this eu is not built for european citizens. no, this eu is built for big business and for bankers. president, this eu is the opposite of robin hood. she steals from the poor and gives to the rich.
thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr gerbrandy, but i do have a slightly different opinion from what he has just put forward. we are talking about life and life money. i hear from the netherlands and other countries too that the money for this is hardly available for projects. i also hear from members of the dutch parliament and i will gladly refer them to you, because it must be made simpler. i also think we should do the double. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the debate on the budget. and i said, "what's wrong? it's about the cycle. it's about low-emission farming. it is about farmers in natura 2000 areas. it's about cattle grazing. it's about the landowners. it's about forestry when we look at co2. so we can do a lot with it. we must involve the citizens. so not against each other - that's often the case now - but with each other. and not as has happened so often in the netherlands, where farmers are dispossessed because they are in a beautiful natural area, whereas they have been there for hundreds of years. i am also glad that the committee on agriculture has given me its full support to do this and i also hope that my amendment no 79 - and you never do it - will continue to be supported in this parliament alone. and then when it comes to biodiversity and the large carnivores, you all know what dantin said: it's part of it, it's flora and fauna. we're going from five billion to seven billion. but, mr gerbrandy, there is also an amendment - i wrote it myself - on green and blue ecosystem services with a new common agricultural policy. we can use this to make the point that farmers are happy to live in a nature reserve and involve the citizens. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? i'm not denying that there's a problem with large predators. i didn't say that either. but do you not think it is a little strange that when you describe the general objectives of this life fund - you are talking about climate in general, biodiversity in general, the environment in general - that the epp adds large predators to that as the same category? don't you think that's a little strange? shouldn't that be addressed in a completely different way?
"blue card" is the answer. no, mr gerbrandy, that is clearly not the issue. i would have preferred you to have asked me about the first point. but this second point is a very important point. and also, if you look at -- if we're talking about these big carnivores -- the wolf. look at the burden it creates and the money we need to pay for it. these are points of discussion which are really very important not only in the netherlands but also outside the netherlands throughout europe. we need to pay attention to that. as the spokesman for the habitats directive, we have had extensive discussions on this subject with ministers from all over europe, including from the intergroup, in order to do more about it. commissioner vella knows better than anyone what i mean by this.
rapporteur. – madam president, many thanks for that – and thank you, commissioner, for your warm words for the life programme. i’ve learned a lot during the debate, and i think the most important element that i’ve learned is that the issues we disagree on are details in the overall life programme. in general, we agree. we agree on quite a big increase of the budget, and we fully agree about the huge importance of this financial instrument. i sincerely hope that that will be reflected in tomorrow’s vote, and that we can start soon after tomorrow’s vote with the negotiations with the council to finalise the whole process before the european elections. one final word: i emphasised in my opening remarks that the life fund is only a small part of the total european budget. it is very crucial. many colleagues have embraced the objectives of life, and it’s important that these objectives are also reflected in all the other funds. this is just eur 5 billion, hopefully eur 7 billion. the other funds altogether are more than 1000 billion. so please take your thoughts about the importance of the environment, about climate policy and about biodiversity when you consider the other 95% of the eu budget.
mr president, this week we have the opportunity to better protect thousands, many thousands of car mechanics, road builders and construction workers from carcinogenic diesel fumes and other carcinogens in the workplace. workers have the right to be well protected and not to be made ill by their work. fortunately, this is reflected in the legislation. if we vote in favour, we can prevent people who work with diesel-powered machinery from getting heart disease, lung problems or cancer from work. if we vote for it, we will prevent so much misery in so many families in europe. we can put an end to this misery with this legislation. i think that is a great compliment to the rapporteur, to the shadow rapporteurs, but also to the commission and the council, for having managed to conclude this deal, which allows more people to do their job with more pleasure and without harm to their health.
the food industry in europe is going from scandal to scandal. think of the horse meat scandal or think of the fipronil in our eggs. one of the biggest scandals of this century is the re-approval of the highly damaging agricultural poison glyphosate. the monsanto papers showed in detail the length of the industry's arm. monsanto paid scientists large sums of money to prove the supposed safety of glyphosate. the european institutions have taken that for granted when they are the very ones responsible for ensuring the safety of our food. concerned citizens were able to gather over one million signatures for the citizens' initiative "ban glyphosate!" well, the european commission did not prohibit it, but it did come up with a proposal to make the whole decision-making process more transparent and independent in the future. according to the party for the animals, the only responsible guideline is the precautionary principle. the health of humans and animals and the right to a healthy environment must always take precedence over the commercial interests of the poison producers. unfortunately, the rapporteur is taking the side of those producers. fortunately, the committee on the environment and the committee on pesticides have taken a different line. they want, as we do, to prevent industry from taking decisions in europe. citizens and independent scientists should have early access to all information and, of course, they should also know who is the source of that information. tomorrow parliament will have the opportunity to show once again that it will not give in to the power of money, that it will not give in to the power of industry. i call on you to choose transparency, reliability and independence. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, looking at the story before us, i think we have to think about trust among the citizens, but also trust among the business community. i would therefore like to thank our rapporteur, renate sommer, for her report on this subject. the commission has also found that the risk of a possible breach of the undertaking's obligations to comply with the undertaking's obligations is not excluded. this demonstrated the need for coordinated european risk communication and the fight against fake news and hate speech, while ensuring that our food is safer than ever before thanks to efsa. family farms in the poultry-raising sector are still suffering from the consequences of this and we must find a solution. trust also requires transparency. the commission's proposals do not offer a solution, but unfortunately create new, enormous problems. i share mrs sommer's condemnation of the complete lack of impact assessment, particularly as the rules in this proposal will cause considerable damage to the innovation and competitiveness of european industry. it is incomprehensible that the commission has not carried out an impact assessment. the european food, feed packaging, feed industry, plant protection products, plant breeding and flavouring industries are at risk of being banned in europe. we have to think about that too. i am against the disclosure of details of production processes and associated research studies prior to and at the time of application. this poses a risk to industry because of the corporate espionage from third countries. transparency may also be provided after completion at the time of the efsa's scientific opinion on the draft. i think we should fight each other for that.
president. - i am sorry, mr president, but i have to say that i am not in a position to give you an answer to that question. we even drink carcinogens, such as caffeine and alcohol. in agriculture, conventional and organic farmers use means to protect their crops. that makes sense because if a harvest fails, they have no income and we have no food. it is of the utmost importance that we have a scientific risk assessment to determine whether these products are dangerous to the environment, to humans or to animals. because let 's be honest . how many of you in this room know the chemical formula of glyphosate? no one, so we'll leave it to science, too. what you see very often is that a scientific assessment doesn't quite fit in with our political alley and we're screaming murder and arson. i always compare it a little bit to the situation where we're sitting at home on the bench watching a football game where the referee sees a foul in a tackle by our favorite player. we wish that referee all the best. but it's important that the referee is there, because without a referee, there's no football game. that is why it is so important that we have a trustworthy risk assessment, that we do everything we can to strengthen the authority and that we also do everything we can to strengthen the transparency. because if we do not have an arbiter to judge certain substances, we will be back to a policy of welfare and non-welfare and we will kill all innovation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). thank you to the vice president and the secretary for coming to talk to us about this. i very much appreciate the commission's willingness to increase pressure on italy and to have also started the procedure which, in my view, is putting italy back on the right track. that was different. what italy really needs is realism. realism to understand that a debt of over 130% of your own annual income is not sustainable and neither is spending nearly 3% more than you get. the introduction of a basic income and the lowering of the retirement age will only make matters worse. what italy really needs is a realistic reform agenda that makes the country productive again. the rising interest rates we are seeing are also forcing them to do so. i therefore urge the commission to persuade italy, like other countries in the european union, to honour its commitments and to act if it does not, because our commitments apply to everyone.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’ll be very brief. this report was adopted with a very large majority in the committee on employment and social affairs. we had 66 compromises, of which the most narrowly adopted received 36 votes in favour, with four against. i would really like the plenary here to respect the balanced approach that we found in the committee, and to support us in taking this mandate into the negotiations with the council.
rapporteur. – mr president, just to ask for a referral back to committee to start negotiations.
the report is the conclusion of our special committee on terrorism, but it is also, and above all, a starting point for continuing our work on the security of 500 million europeans. let me make a few brief remarks. we must make better use of the data we are already collecting, and i share commissioner king's hope that the interoperability dossier will be completed as soon as possible in this respect. we also need to do a better job of storing data. it is ridiculous that four and a half years after the court's ruling, we still have no viable alternative to ensure that the police and the judiciary have access to the information they need. preachers of hate, spreaders of poison in our society, we need to blacklist them so that we make their work impossible. and finally, we need a european system to track financial flows related to terrorism. we are far too dependent on our american colleagues. we will have to take our own responsibility and we will have to take that responsibility quickly. in other words, mr president, there is still a lot of work to be done, so let us get to work.
madam president, japan and the eu are partners in respecting the rule of law, democracy, rules-based trade, multilateralism and openness. this makes the economic partnership agreement and the strategic partnership agreement all the more important in times when strongman politics from washington to beijing are challenging the very model that has brought our citizens the highest quality of life. this is a crucial moment for europe to lead. does this trade agreement solve all our problems? no, but it will facilitate the flow of goods and services between us in a smart and sustainable way, and it also allows us to work towards setting high standards in the digital economy, towards wto reform, towards better environmental protection and reaching the 2030 sustainable development goals. i don’t have to remind you of what is at stake in terms of the threats we face to the rules—based order. to colleagues who do not believe this agreement is perfect, i say that complex agreements never are. but do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. i look forward to improving our already good relationship with our japanese friends.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, opposition leader selahattin demirtaş is facing a maximum sentence of 183 years. he is jailed, his freedom of expression is curtailed, and so is his right to politics. and for what? for representing millions of people in turkey who want peace, millions of people who want to continue their struggle for equal rights through democratic means, and for being the voice of kurdish – and turkish – youth who are fed up with the decades-long bloodshed. the european court of human rights last month unanimously ruled for his immediate release. to say it in the words of the court: ‘it is beyond reasonable doubt that the demirtaş detention had pursued the predominant ulterior purpose of stifling pluralism and limiting freedom of political debate.’ this is the definition of a political prisoner. this is the reason why president erdoğan has no plans to release his political opponent. it’s easier to rule without an opposition, without free press, and without civil society. dear başak, when you are in the court tomorrow to testify in the show trial against your husband, know that you have the european parliament behind you. we will not forget him, and we will continue to demand justice. selahattin, we are with you.
president, human rights: the human rights situation in the it is the common thread of our international action and it is important that it remains so. it is particularly important in today's world that the eu stands up for human rights. human rights violations are by definition never domestic affairs. there's some good news. after years of pressure from the european parliament and others, there seems to be finally some light on the matter of a european sanctions mechanism for human rights violations, with sanctions targeted at individuals involved in human rights violations. the sanctions are not intended to punish a population but to punish government officials or politicians who commit crimes. i welcome this dutch initiative for a european magnitsky act, and i am also glad that the council is supporting it. but let me tell you something: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them up.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, i too would like to express my horror at the attack that has just been carried out at the christmas market here in strasbourg, and i wish the victims every success. i hope the police will lock up the perpetrators soon and that they can stay there for a very long time. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the amounts in the 2018 budget are lower than the proposed 2019 budget. oettinger's nightmare scenario seems to me to be a good plan. every tenth of a percent budget cut already saves the taxpayer hundreds of millions of euros. the word 'austerity' and the expression 'simplifying' are not in the dictionary of the euro-lovers. that's why i'm proposing the next cut. withdrawing 400 000 erasmus+ grants for schools, professors and students will prevent further eu indoctrination, saving €3 billion a year. the 100 000 volunteers selected for the european solidarity corps will pay for their holidays themselves, leaving us with a surplus of over 300 million euros a year. reduced funding for the european solidarity fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund is leading countries to solve their own problems instead of always putting their hands up. no more billions of euros to the refugee facility in turkey. the court of auditors found that in half of the cases this unnecessary aid did not produce the desired results. the eu always wants more and more. as far as we're concerned, less, much less, is more sensible. the level of the 2018 budget is already high enough. as for us, i call on colleagues to vote against the amended 2019 budget.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy. mr president, i am really proud of what we have now. more money. more priority now. besides excellence, of course, that driver, especially innovation, innovation, innovation. because what is the benefit of having great knowledge, like solar panels, and then having these products manufactured in the rest of the world? producing, creating jobs, that's the story. i am pleased to be able to present you with real proposals on behalf of the regional committee, not just lip service. we are going to give 5% of our resources to these regions so that they can really make europe stronger in their specialisations. not just nobel prize winners, but the very people we train and then let embrace this new technology and make europe stronger. that is why i am proud of this programme and the investments it has made. we're going to the voters with this.
mr president, i am very grateful to you for allowing me to speak. i agree with you completely that it is about respect for the victims, but there is only one way to have respect for the victims and that is to recognize where this danger comes from. and this danger, mr president, is from islam. it's islamic terrorism and we'll continue to see it.
tackling climate change is at the top of our european agenda. this can only be achieved if it goes hand in hand with the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is important that the sustainable transition happens in a social way, so that people with smaller pockets do not unilaterally pay the bill for our climate ambitions. i accept the price tag attached to measures to combat climate change, but i do not accept the unfair burden sharing. many people are willing to do their part to make a sustainable transition, but not if it has to be paid for with higher taxes on everyday groceries, higher energy bills for people in rental housing and subsidies for solar panels for people with a detached commercial property. that's bad for the foundation for the energy transition. we are calling for a european transition fund to help vulnerable regions to bear the social costs of climate change. this is the only way to ensure a successful green and fair transition in europe. sustainable development must become a social project, of which compensation for the poor is a part. we must leave this world healthy for future generations. at the same time, we also have a responsibility to improve the lives of those who are now paying the bill.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a slap in the face to people who want us to contribute to schools for children, care for the elderly, safety in the neighborhood. the proposal to tax certain turnover of tech giants is a temporary but necessary measure. sometimes it's the biggest companies in the world that pay the least tax: amazon, google, facebook, but also uber and airbnb. in addition to the problems they cause, such as the spread of fake news, they also fail to pay taxes, to contribute to the collective benefits of and for everyone. at the same time, public support for change is overwhelming. 720,000 people have signed the avaaz petition supporting the digitax proposal. more than 80% of the people in countries where governments oppose the proposal, such as denmark, germany, the netherlands and sweden, say they support it. the same over 80% say we should not wait for an international agreement. we must not give in to american threats. we should not limit the scope of taxation, but rather expand it with netflix and similar providers of digital content. that is exactly what the econ committee is proposing. netflix also has to pay taxes on its digital revenue. in fact, i would like to make a plea for raising the rate from 3 to 5%. only then can there be a level playing field between the digital company and the traditional large company. because it's the digital giants who can pretend not to be in a country to avoid taxes. so raise the rate. the intervention is therefore necessary, public support is high, and yet european countries are hesitating and refusing to reach an agreement. it's not understandable. in a mutual agreement, france and germany threaten to scrap the proposal. it's not understandable. liberals and conservatives want a low rate. it's not understandable. the tax on turnover from digital services is temporary. i told you that already. it must be a prelude to a structural solution. a definition of digital presence, so that digital companies pay their taxes wherever they operate. the european parliament has already called for this in its reports on the common and consolidated corporate taxation. the report by dariusz rosati is welcome and good, because it confirms that. we must realise that the current systems of corporate taxation are totally outdated and are not suitable in an era of globalisation and digitalisation. in conclusion: the road to international agreement. there is a very skewed situation. right now, google pays 86% of its corporate income tax in the united states and only 14% elsewhere. we therefore cannot count on the united states to help us to redress this crooked situation. we'll have to do that ourselves. it is precisely a european initiative that is needed to ensure that the american negotiators come to the table. that is precisely what is needed to ensure that the talks at the oecd actually have a chance of success. this is necessary to prevent each european country from going its own way and introducing a digitax itself. the plans are already there, but they will only fragment the labour market. in short, a digital tax is necessary for basic fairness, a level playing field between companies. it can't wait. it's now, not never.
rapporteur. – mr president, yes, there have been missed opportunities for those that say that we should wait for an international solution. remember that, in 2015, the oecd started a discussion on taxing the digital economy, and it was blocked by the united states. we need a european initiative to bring the americans to the table and discuss taxing the digital economy. to those that say this is not a good tax measure – yes, i am very grateful to othmar karas and alain lamassoure – we have a structural solution that has been put forward by the european commission, that has been supported by the european parliament: a common corporate consolidated tax base, which allows countries to determine where companies make their profits and where they pay taxes. so this is the only thing we are left to the table to bring forward tax justice, not in 2020 or 2021– no, in 2019. so that we have tax justice in which everyone pays their fair share, everyone pays – also the multinationals, also the millionaires, and most certainly the tech giants like google and facebook. let’s give a clear signal from the european parliament and support an ambitious digital service tax.
president. - mr president, we often talk about money in this house, about the european union's money, about the european union's financial interests. these discussions affect people, because the money of the european union is, of course, taxpayers' money. whether it comes to the european union through vat or through national contributions, citizens in the european union all contribute to the european budget. often, they are people who are struggling to make ends meet. this is why reports of conflicts of interest or fraud are particularly acute. we are rightly seeking to impose stricter requirements on the respect for the rule of law in the spending of european funds. we want the citizens to be able to trust that their money is being spent well. in the case of the czech republic, irregularities have been detected in the past in relation to the stork's nest case. and now there are again indications that there may be a conflict of interest and that the czech prime minister is personally benefiting from eu funds. nobody is guilty until proven guilty, but we must be able to count on independent and thorough investigations both in the czech republic itself and through olaf. we have the right to have parliament properly informed. i call on the commission and the council to do so. finally, a general appeal to the commission. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu anti-corruption strategy. parliament has repeatedly called for this and this issue once again shows that this practice must be resumed. i'll ask the commissioner to take it up again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. especially when it comes to space travel. and with this eu space programme, we are leading the world. we're proud of that. this is not about dreamy mars missions, but about real progress that benefits the hardworking european here and now. for example, in my own country, the netherlands, we know precisely where and how the ground is falling, thanks to space travel, so that we can maintain our dikes and our infrastructure properly. it's helping us to innovate agriculture even further, to address the climate problem, and to make the best use of space in military operations. but there are concerns. all data produced must be safe and used only for good purposes. our galileo and our copernicus programmes provide a lot of data at a detailed level and we cannot risk that the impact or application of data will lead to damage to our societies. with this package, we're going to invest money, but we're also going to standardize data and open it up for our companies. we are giving start-ups and our smes more opportunities to develop more rapidly. and that means not only better space technologies, but that openness allows us to innovate further everywhere. so this means making agriculture more environmentally friendly with new technologies, making the transport sector cleaner by further optimising transport flows, and also our medical sector can make people better faster. the frontrunners have the best chance of doing so, so with this package we are going to take start-ups and smes in europe one step further. in short: "the sky is not the limit".
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, this programme is about high-performance computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and advanced digital skills, and i think our message is quite simple: we need to reinforce our capacity in these fields. we need to reinforce our capacity and ensure that it is widely used in our economy and our society. i think that was the main message when the european leaders met in tallinn and it’s also a conclusion that we can widely share in this house. we already have the digital single market, and the programme we’re discussing today has to make sure we get the much-needed investment to match the ambitions of that strategy. it’s already important. if we want the eu to play a role in the digital transformations of the future we need to act today and we need to invest today. already the demand for new technology is growing at a much faster pace in the eu than the supply. in high-performance computing we see that the lack of adequate resources actually pushes scientists and researchers out of europe. we have an excellent artificial intelligence community, but it is still underdeveloped compared to other markets. fragmentation and relatively low public investment in cybersecurity put our society and economy at risk while the european cyber industry remains very fragmented. from the perspective of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), this last point especially is very important. cybersecurity is critical to both our prosperity and our security. as our daily lives become more and more digital, they also become more and more exposed, and the risks in recent years have grown exponentially. increasing the trust of citizens and businesses in digital communication, in cybersecurity, is an absolute priority for the eu and i’m very happy that with the report that we will vote on tomorrow, with this programme from our commissioner, this is exactly what we will do. thank you all and we look forward to voting on this tomorrow.
author. – mr president, commissioner and colleagues, human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh is one of the world’s most courageous human rights defenders. herself and her family are paying an extraordinary price for her doing her job. i’m very proud that we awarded her the sakharov prize but that also gives us specific responsibility to speak out for her freedom. the islamic republic has once again shown its true colours by imprisoning nasrin sotoudeh – again. this time, because she defended courageous women – the courageous women who want the freedom to wear or not to wear the hijab, and it is essential that high representative mogherini speaks out both publicly and privately in her many engagements with representatives of the islamic republic of iran. she must speak out for the universal human rights of all iranians, but especially for the human rights defenders and the women that have a legitimate and modest claim when they want not to be forced to wear a religious symbol.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran. today, for example, national clergymen are deeply concerned about the erosion of their public status. this process undermines the legitimacy of the regime. in this threatening situation, human rights must pay the price. our resolution is clear on this. the brutal persecution of human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh is illustrative. i am also deeply concerned about the wave of arrests of christians in iran: 142 believers last month, over 100 in the first week of december. i therefore ask the council and the commission to make a strong case for this barbaric persecution of christians in their contacts with the iranian authorities. i am naturally pleased to hear the results of this european commitment to the fundamental right of freedom of religion in the islamic republic of iran.
author. – mr president, many in the european union see egypt as an important partner in countering terrorism, managing migration and ensuring stability in an already explosive middle east. and yes, egypt is an important country and that is why it is so crucial not to repeat the mistakes of the past, where the severe oppression of peoples’ rights led to anything but stability. i think there is repetition going on – and it’s a ticking time bomb – as enforced disappearances, torture, executions and a crackdown on civil society organisations, journalists and other human rights defenders continue. this crisis of human rights and the enforced disappearances really hit home to many in europe with the giulio regeni case, but in fact they impact on the entire egyptian population. we wanted to see for ourselves what the human rights situation in egypt was like, but unfortunately, we were unable to travel to egypt next week. i think that this is very problematic and it needs to be addressed, because we need to stay in contact and be able to convey in person our serious concerns about the lack of respect for human rights in egypt.
author. mr president, in 2015, i was the lead observer for the european observation mission to the presidential elections in tanzania, the elections that brought president magufuli to power. president kikwete had served his term and the ruling party came up with a new candidate. that's good news, because it can be different. there are plenty of examples in africa of a president who wants to sit too long. the elections in that country actually went pretty well. i am not talking about zanzibar, because it went completely out of control there, but on the mainland the elections went quite well. president magufuli started very promising anti-corruption campaigns and tanzania was also known as a beacon of calm in the region the east african region, with burundi, uganda, kenya, often having very turbulent elections. but now, three years after the 2015 election, we have to conclude that it's all wrong. the opposition is being intimidated, threatened and even killed. in dar es salaam, paul makonda, the highest representative of the government, has launched a witch hunt against lgbt people. people are even lynched for not being heterosexual. president magufuli has banned schoolgirls who become pregnant from attending school. anti-corruption programs seem to be on ice. it has gone from a stable country to one where there is currently a lawless situation. so bad that the world bank has decided to stop initiatives and the european external action service is trying to do the same. the head of the european delegation has been recalled to europe and relations with tanzania are being reviewed. i think that vice-president mogherini is very wise and i would also like to see this resolution as a support for the policy and a back-up for the democratic opposition in tanzania. you've been seen. you're not alone.
i would like to say, mr president, that i understand and appreciate the commitment and the commitment of mrs meissner. there are probably few subjects on which there is so much agreement in this parliament. of course, the tens of millions of people in the european union who deal with the consequences of a rare disease every day deserve the very best care. of course, everyone should be able to receive a correct and timely diagnosis. and of course, everyone should have access to affordable medicine. no one will disagree with that, including me. but, mr president, unfortunately that is not the way it works. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is up to the dutch to determine how health care is shaped in the netherlands. whether a particular medicine is covered by a health insurance company is a matter for the national parliament. the level of the care premium, the content of the care for the elderly, in short the whole care system is a national competence and must remain so. there are 28 member states with 28 different health care systems. it is a bad idea to try to integrate these systems into something that should eventually lead to one big european health care system. because, mr president, one great european health care system is the ultimate aim of the many euro-philists here in parliament. and that must be prevented at all costs. europe is made up of different nations, different peoples. each country, each people has its own traditions and characteristics. it is absurd to think that there can be one model that applies to all member states. care is custom. it is therefore up to the member states. mr president, it is of course a good idea to cooperate internationally. not from the ivory towers of brussels and strasbourg, but from the member states. of course we encourage cooperation, for example between academic hospitals, scientists and the world health organization.
