the next item is the joint debate on the report by josé blanco lópez, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (recast) (com (2016) 0767 c8-0500/2016 - 2016/0382 (cod)) (a8-0392/2017), the report by miroslav poche, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/27/eu on energy efficiency (com (2016) 0761 - c8-0498/2016 - 2016/0376 (cod)) (a8-0391/2017) and the report by claude rivas, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec, directive 2009/65/ec, directive 2009/75/ec, directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/70/ec and commission directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/ec and commission regulation (eu) no 66/377/ec, directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/ec and directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/ec, directive 2009/70/ec and directive 2009/70/ec, directive 2009/ec, directive 2009/70/ec and commission regulation (eu) no 78/77/77/ec.
thank you very much, we have now concluded the speeches of the rapporteurs. i want to answer. mr. pieper came in with the intention of asking a question in blue card mode. sorry, request to reporters, we don't use this method, and mr. pieper will be able to speak soon.
mr pieper, i am sorry but you will be given the floor later on. we have adopted a rule under which rapporteurs cannot speak under the blue-card procedure. you will have your time later and will have a chance to speak then. please understand that these are the rules of the game.
it is rare for the european commission to be so intensely occupied. i would like to ask commissioner miguel arias cañete to express his satisfaction with the commission's position.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to take this first opportunity in plenary to start by expressing my appreciation for the very constructive role that the parliament delegation played in securing political agreement at the last trilogue meeting on the energy performance in buildings directive (epbd), and to the rapporteur, bendt bendtsen, and all the shadow rapporteurs involved. thanks to the strong position taken by the european parliament, we saw a political agreement that allowed us to maintain the ambition of the commission’s original proposal on most aspects and even went further than them on many points. turning to the three proposals being debated here today, i would first like to address the proposal on governance. it is clear that strong governance rules will be a crucial for ensuring a resilient energy union with ambitious energy and climate policies and for making sure that the whole clean energy package sticks together. we need a reliable approach to governance at european level, notably to ensure the effective achievement of the european union’s 2030 targets for energy and climate. it is essential to provide a solid system that allows progress to be assessed at european union level, to put in place specific measures to identify shortcomings at an early stage, and to respond adequately in order to close any potential gap. this will be vital in securing the necessary public and private investment. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s ambitions to establish effective and reliable governance for the energy union. the report adopted by the joint itre/envi committee contains several positive elements that will help to keep such an ambitious approach when trilogues with the council start. coherence is one of the central assets of the clean energy package, and it is of paramount importance to continue paying particular attention to this in the work ahead. in this regard, the commission welcomes your decision to set sectoral targets in sectoral legislation but, nevertheless, the mechanisms securing target achievement should remain in the governance proposal. at the same time, the commission welcomes the latest proposal tabled on the trajectories to be followed by member states to reach their 2030 national renewables targets and trusts that it will be supported across the house. we believe that it will be a very positive step forward, laying the ground for a solid agreement in the negotiations with the council, which has made a major step by accepting the introduction of a third reference point, in 2027, on the trajectory towards the 2030 renewables target. finding a common ground on this will be an essential element showcasing our commitment towards achieving the energy transition. to keep a coherent and integrated approach, a single energy union committee for the implementation of the regulation, across all dimensions, is also essential. co-existence of two separate committees would not be the optimal solution because of the many linkages between energy and climate, and it would blur clarity about competence. a single committee would create the necessary synergies and ensure a more coherent and integrated framework. it is in line with better regulation principles, streamlines structures and cuts red tape. we further encourage the european parliament to keep an ambitious position on the deadlines for the draft national plans, which are important to guarantee the effectiveness of the iterative process, to convey early investment signals to the markets and investors, as well as for the facilitative ‘talanoa’ dialogue under the paris climate agreement. citizens are at the centre of the clean energy transition. consumers are becoming the real drivers of this energy transition, and this is well reflected in the emphasis put by the parliament on the role of citizens and civil society in taking part in the process leading to the definition of climate and energy policies. finally, we also need to promote additional efforts to tackle energy poverty in europe. the clean energy package proposes several measures contributing to the alleviation of energy poverty, but i welcome that the european parliament has recognised the importance of this by strengthening the efforts to be made by member states to reduce energy poverty. let me turn now to the proposed revisions to the renewable energy directive. the aim of our regulatory framework is to ensure a continuous flow of investments into renewable sectors and to ensure its competitive development for the benefit of our citizens and our industry. the commission welcomes the progressive position of the european parliament, which is generally reinforcing the overall ambition of the proposal, including on such key aspects as consumer empowerment, administrative simplification and investor stability and predictability. overall, i believe the text adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy is a reasonable compromise which takes into account the different positions across the european parliament and reinforces the proposal for a directive. however, specifically regarding the amendments that have been tabled to plenary, i see some merits on those tabled in relation to the cap on conventional biofuels, which establish national caps instead of a union cap. this could be a compromise in a very divisive issue that brings the text closer to the balanced approach that the commission initially proposed. another issue is the harmonisation of the sustainability criteria for bioenergy, where the text adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety would lead to contradictory interpretations, potentially opening the door to the introduction of national criteria. we need to make sure that we keep the european union harmonisation of these criteria, which already exists under the current directive, so that there is no detrimental effect for the internal market. finally, i would like to underline our concern regarding the amendment tabled to exclude roundwood and stumps from bioenergy raw material. excluding these feedstocks by default is neither environmentally desirable nor practical, as it would require all forest biomass used in the energy sector to be certified. we count on the parliament to support an ambitious report on wednesday and to work with us for the best outcome on the proposal, considering the general approach adopted by council in december. let me now address the energy efficiency directive. it is crucial that parliament maintains its position on an ambitious energy efficiency level, including the binding character of the european union target and the strong article 7. these are key elements, not only for reducing key energy consumption, improving competitiveness, strengthening our energy security, improving air quality and quality of life, and reducing energy poverty, but also in the context of achieving our climate objectives. i am glad to see a compromise emerging around a high ambition level, supported by a strong article 7. it is a comfortable position for the european parliament in view of entering into interinstitutional negotiations. indeed, analyses show that the majority of measures under article 7 – aims of the renovation of buildings through energy efficiency obligation schemes, fiscal incentives or financing schemes – will deliver real benefits to the consumer in the form of reduced energy bills. without maintaining a strong article 7, many profitable energy savings will not take place in the next decade. i would like to warn against two specific proposals. first, even if it is decided politically to introduce an ‘adjustment factor’ for the level of the european energy efficiency target, this factor should certainly not be linked to the level of renewable energy consumption. renewable energy and energy efficiency are partners, not rivals. second, we will not be able to maintain a strong article 7 if we allow excess energy savings from the current period to be carried forward after 2020. this would open a significant loophole and would force the commission into a position where it would need to intrusively monitor the details of implementation in member states. finally, you also proposed to amend a number of other articles which are not part of the commission proposal. opening new articles without a proper assessment by the commission and without the council taking position entails the risk of significantly delaying the negotiations and sending the wrong signal to stakeholders. i look forward to this debate on these two different proposals but, before we start, let me remind you again that these are part of a bigger package and, while considering these proposals individually, it is vital that you do not lose sight of the need for coherence and maintaining a high level of ambition. i encourage you now to move forward as soon as possible in debating and voting on the market design proposals in order to complete the whole package.
ladies and gentlemen, our debate today is a little unusual. we have heard from four rapporteurs. we're going to hear from representatives of six parliamentary committees. i think we'll do just as well, because the speeches are one minute long.
by the way, by the way, is there any chance that you're getting a substantial discount at the bar, if not a change of name?
the question asked by raising the blue card. you have always had very high ambitions for efficiency, i.e. 40% efficiency. assuming that in 2005 this efficiency was 65%, i would like to know what you think it should be in 2030 if that 40% is taken into account, so what will it be? to that 60%, how many will come?
thank you very much, i see that alde we have absent. i therefore call on the confederal group of the european united left to support mrs paloma lópez bermejo. i apologize, then, on behalf of the liberal and democratic group, mr. frederick federley.
thank you very much. thank you. i'm sorry, sir, but the print i received here did not have your name on it, and i thought you were not here.
the question asked by raising the blue card. renewable energy, a very important thing, like the sun, was coming to earth. plants were created from sunlight and carbon dioxide. that's what coal was made from. and that carbon is now burned, and carbon dioxide is created again. the sun is coming. it'll be new coal again. do you not think that banning coal burning will disrupt the process of renewable energy generation?
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr pieper, while i was no longer rapporteur, you tabled two additional amendments. one raises the target to thirty-five. that gives you an efficiency of about eighty-six percent, the efficiency of the european mix. and the fuel of the covenant, which the lord hath appointed, a thousand two hundred and twenty. that's a pretty interesting number in megatons, but unfortunately i think 893 megatons of final energy is probably not enough. have you not considered? because that's 73%. why is there such a difference in efficiency and do you think that final energy should not be limited at all? thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! i have the impression that during the development of this package, there was and is a kind of competition or bidding. whoever is more ambitious deserves better in saving the planet and humanity. we forget that this is an energy package, not a climate package. unfortunately, ambition does not always go hand in hand with scientific realism, as professor gierek has repeatedly said here, political and economic. the german energiewende, for example, shows that excessive ambition can often clash painfully with reality. unfortunately, the proposals in these three reports are not realistic and therefore we shall find it difficult to support them. but as far as the political implications are concerned, i'll just say two. well, my colleague mr federley has spoken about the fact that some countries are being taught by others, so that will add to the tensions in the european union. but what is even more worrying is that we forget that the union is a community of law. i would therefore like to ask commissioner cañete whether article 194 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that the member states have sovereignty in the choice of their energy basket, is still applicable.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. the clean energy project proves once again that parliament puts ideological thinking before common sense. as far as energy efficiency is concerned, professor gierck's proposal to calculate it in relation to primary energy is rational and scientifically justified. taking the professor's report is compromising the scientific left. the target of 35% renewable energy can be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, but only if we have the full range of energy sources at our disposal. that's why i'm not in favor of limiting biomass and biofuels. as regards the governance of the energy union, i do not agree with the tendency to restrict the member states' powers to shape the energy basket.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank commissioner cañete and the committee for the preparation of the package and all my colleagues for the very good debate that has been going on in the european parliament for over a year. it was an important discussion. ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking about realistic goals all along. there was also the question of how to convince member states to implement the package. of course, the simplest answer is to make your goals realistic. i think that these targets are not realistic at the moment: 40 or 35%, especially since the european commission can in some cases impose a renewable energy target, which is unattainable for many countries. but i wanted to emphasize very strongly that in this package the vast majority of the issues that are resolved are very positive things, like system heating, district heating. if we want to fight smog, let's support it like this package. a lot of other solutions are very positive, so you can generally be behind the package.
energy efficiency is the percentage of energy obtained each time it is changed from one state to another. this may be a percentage of final energy in relation to primary energy or of useful energy in relation to final energy. i have expressed this, among other things, as rapporteur for the draft report, introducing the definition of energy and the need to take account of the entire energy chain. i also introduced the definition of energy efficiency of the energy basket. i've decided that the primary energy should be limited, not the final energy. the draft directive promises energy efficiency as a core theme. but it's about reducing the final energy use, so why is that a lie? we need a better mechanism and a better way of calculating than the current one, in the form of a proper system of primary energy indicators, in order to convert primary energy into final energy and vice versa. primary energy factors are clues to energy efficiency.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to create a regulatory framework for the governance of the energy union by simplifying and integrating existing planning, reporting and monitoring obligations in the field of energy and climate. the second objective is to define a robust policy procedure between member states and the commission, in close cooperation with the other eu institutions, to achieve the energy union and its 2030 energy and climate goals. i objected to this report because there is no agreement on the following: the inclusion of energy poverty provisions in the national energy and climate plans, changes beyond the scope of this regulation in the case of the common reduction effort regulation, linear trajectories in the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive, and plans to adopt more ambitious targets in the national five-year growth plans. the ecr group has presented alternative compromise amendments. unfortunately, none of them were accepted and they're going to be put back to a crucial vote.
in writing. the pursuit of greenhouse gas emission reductions to limit adverse climate change is a strongly encouraged action. technological progress and the development of biofuels have enabled a more sustainable use of natural resources, created thousands of additional jobs and become a major industry of great importance for the economy of individual countries and the development of agriculture. the amendment to the renewable energy directive (red ii) which we will be voting on introduces restrictions on the production of first generation biofuels (from cultivated plants), setting a cap of 7% on their share in the transport fuel mix by 2030. it also envisages phasing out palm oil as a feedstock for their production by 2021. the best thing to do is to give up palm oil, which is competitive with rapeseed grown in europe and which is also cutting down tropical forests. however, limiting the production of conventional biofuels is not a solution that benefits european farmers and producers. the money they spent to reach the production ceiling sufficient to meet the previous target of the directive 10% has not yet been paid back and the investment period is still ongoing. therefore, i believe that we should maintain the share of first generation biofuels in transport at a level sufficient to recoup the investments made and develop efficient methods for the production of advanced biofuels (from non-consumable bio-components).
in writing. there is no doubt that we need to improve the environment. the debate on clean energy therefore focuses on instruments to promote renewable energy and improve energy efficiency. i think it is crucial to accept the principle that energy efficiency improvements are not just about the end use of energy. energy savings can be stimulated and achieved throughout the energy chain. the second problem is that the improvement in energy efficiency will not be the same in every sector of the economy. there are simply more and less energy-intensive sectors of the economy. if we set too high efficiency targets for energy-intensive sectors of the economy, they will be shifted outside the eu, causing a number of social and technological problems.
mr president, technical measures are broad sets of rules which govern how, where and when fishermen may fish. they are established for all european sea basins, but obviously they differ considerably from one basin to another, in accordance with their original conditions. it is a highly technical issue, but it is also highly political because, after all, we are trying to combine different interests from different member states and different stakeholders. the rapporteur is doing a very good job. mr mato, you have my full support because of the tailor-made measures adopted for the specificities of each fishery and each sea basin, the reduction of micromanagement and rigid technical rules – adopting a more flexible and result-based management – and, finally, the greater involvement of sector in decisions of the common fisheries policy. this is the way to go and i congratulate you on the very hard work you have done.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, mrs engström. it's a very important document, and it's needed. it lays down the management, protection and control measures applicable to the south pacific convention area, which are transposed into european union law in accordance with the union's international obligations. the convention area in the south pacific is of great importance to the member states' deep-sea fleets, including those of poland, the netherlands, germany and lithuania, which are particularly involved in the fisheries of peruvian sturgeon. the report shall define and harmonise the relevant issues based on the best available scientific information and the precautionary principle in the management of resources and the principle of the protection of marine ecosystems. these include sensitive marine ecosystems in bottom fishing, measures to limit seabird bycatch, unregulated fishing, management of peruvian sturgeon fisheries, fisheries surveys, etc. we therefore support the report. he's generally good.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! macro-regional strategies undoubtedly have the potential to increase economic development as well as to bring the citizens of the member states closer together. i am therefore pleased with the results achieved by the four strategies in place, particularly in relation to environmental protection, energy, transport and tourism. i believe that it is worth continuing to implement these strategies, with a focus on increasing their effectiveness. this requires a long-term political perspective for the macro-regions and the full involvement of both regional and local authorities, civil society and private actors. at the same time, regional strategies need to be able to adapt quickly and efficiently to emerging challenges, and therefore need to be more flexible.
madam president, recently we have come across media reports that the government of malta is selling maltese citizenship to rich russian oligarchs for money, a practice that we have condemned here in this house many times. first, it puts at risk the integrity of the schengen system. second, it allows foreign individuals covered by international sanctions to circumvent the existing ban on entering the territory of the union. third, it also undermines the reputation of malta. among those who have been granted maltese passports there are over 700 russian nationals, including various oligarchs. thanks to such golden passports, they can avoid sanctions linked mainly to the aggressive actions of russia in ukraine. i call on the european commission to once again look into schemes for buying maltese citizenship. while respecting the right of eu member states to grant citizenship, the eu should not be seen as a supermarket where passports can be bought by criminals.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. chairman of the commission! prime minister and the nation! we thank you for the estonian presidency, because it was a vote for a europe of diversity, not a europe of one-size-fits-all, a europe of consensus, not a europe of the vote of the temporary majority of the temporary minority. thank you for this voice on the europe of different traditions - as the prime minister said - not a uniform europe, for the voice of a europe of unity, plurality and diversity, not a europe of one model that rejects real pluralism. i also wanted to thank you for mentioning euronest. this eastern dimension of the european union, opening up to the east, is very important. it's the key. we're going in that direction. and i'll end by saying in your language, "aitäh!"
president of the commission . – mr president, i am repeating myself by saying ‘bravo’.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for all your statements and comments. as i said at the beginning of my intervention, europe has turned a page. the wind is again in the sails of the european union, but, of course, there is always room for improvement. the next 18 months will be crucial for the future of the european union. together we will have to set the priorities for the next multiannual financial framework, balancing current policies and new areas such as migration and security. we need to focus on deepening and strengthening the internal market to make sure that all single market strategies are completed by 2018, especially, of course, the digital single market. on migration, we need to keep building our holistic approach, including internal and external aspects. i hope we will reach a compromise on the dublin regulation by june. similarly, i hope we will take the first concrete position on reform of the euro area in june as well. therefore, there is a lot of work ahead of us. thank you.
in writing. the first estonian presidency in history has come to an end. as chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to thank you first of all for your excellent cooperation on the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy - the so-called omnibus regulation. thanks to your commitment and your efforts, we were able to reach an agreement in a short time, which made it possible to implement the changes so important for farmers at the beginning of this year. although the revision was intended to be mainly reorganisational and simplifying, the changes to the cap can ultimately be regarded as a minor reform, as some key instruments of the cap are modified. the simplification elements introduced and the flexibility given to member states are particularly important. the change will benefit young farmers, who we need so much in rural areas. they will be able to receive up to twice the current payment and continue to receive it for five years, regardless of when they applied for it. further steps have been taken to strengthen the farmer's position in the food supply chain, including by extending the possibility for producer organisations to collectively negotiate prices and by excluding farmers from the rules of eu competition law. we have also provided better risk management tools in the event of market difficulties, weather anomalies or plant or animal disease outbreaks.
mr president, i would like to speak on brexit. i would like to start by thanking michel barnier and his team for the excellent cooperation, and i hope that we will stick to this honest and constructive spirit in the months to come. however, we – as the european parliament – also expect much closer cooperation with the council and the member states today, as the scope of negotiations is moving. indeed we are awaiting the legal text of the withdrawal agreement, but many separation-related issues, which also belong to the withdrawal agreement still need to be negotiated. on a number of them, we do not yet know the uk’s position. so we insist that our british partners make those issues a priority in ongoing negotiations. this is my first point. secondly, we understand that michel barnier’s objective is to conclude in a timely manner the withdrawal agreement to which a political declaration on the future will be attached. but, even for this chapter of the process, there is a risk regarding a timely conclusion. we hear from the british side that, in london, the ratification by parliament can happen only at the last minute. there could also be a crisis in the negotiations. while this is in nobody’s interest, those risks could materialise and that is why we must prepare for the worst possible scenario, which is no deal on 30 march next year. there is a clear need to create legal certainty for this no deal situation. we know that there is work ongoing in the commission, and we – as the european parliament – hope for constructive cooperation with the commission and the council regarding preparedness, in particular on legislative amendments. thirdly, the uk has already been very clear on what it does not want. much less clear is what it wants. there are ideas leaked here and there, some of them unacceptable and some of them in contradiction with the treaties, so we hope to have the best and widest possible cooperation with the uk in the future, but the internal market must not be torn into pieces to single out the parts that taste good. in this context, we call on all member states and all european institutions to continue to keep their strong unity throughout the whole process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the council and the president of the commission! it seems that the discussion of the conclusions of the summit is always a ritual task, but in fact this council is not. i would like to draw particular attention to the renewed common security and defence policy. it may be the missing common denominator that we are missing in the european union today. it also responds to the perceived security deficit of the citizens of the member states. and it also has the potential to connect member states and connect citizens. it is therefore welcome and noteworthy that the permanent enhanced cooperation in the field of defence has two new members. it's portugal and ireland. so 25 member states have already joined this cooperation. we expect pesco to be both broad and ambitious. the extent to which these ambitions will be achieved will be seen in the national implementation plans and in the commitment to the first joint projects adopted. i would also like to emphasise that this is also a way of strengthening this european pillar of nato through coordination and also by using the effect of such financial leverage in the joint financing of defence spending in particular. i would like to stress here that sustainability is also necessary here, so as to balance this both geographically and to involve small and medium-sized industries. and finally, i would also like to say something about the brexit issue. we think it's incredibly important that we have significant progress here in terms of financial security, in terms of protecting the rights of citizens, but really what we're looking for is not so much the final decisions that will conclude this divorce of the united kingdom, but rather a change in that decision. i think we would all be most pleased if this change were to take place in britain. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
mr pooser, we all know very well that new tasks also mean new responsibilities, not only in terms of their implementation, but also in terms of financing this project. we know that these new defence tasks also require an increase in budgetary minimums, particularly when we talk about joint expenditure both on armaments and on organisational solutions, to increase our expenditure, our capabilities, in particular our defence capabilities. the current budget cannot therefore be considered to sufficiently address the challenges set out in the defence union project.
mr. chairman, please! the report on international ocean governance raises a number of important issues, such as illegal fishing, exploitation of natural resources on the seabed, and the risks of pollution, in the fight against pollution of the seas and oceans. however, the desire to strengthen the common fisheries policy is problematic, and this may prove beneficial for countries where the sector is traditionally developed to the detriment of weaker ones. promoting renewable energy in the form of ocean tides and winds is controversial and can disrupt the ecosystem. similarly, the demands of decarbonization are good for highly developed countries, but very bad for countries that need cheap energy. that's why i abstained, also because i was promoting a new idea of creating global values and principles of sustainable development, which is actually against nature.
mr. chairman, please! the work on the next financial perspective after 2020 is a good opportunity to review existing macro-regional strategies. experience so far shows that they are useful for most regions to solve common problems. for macro-regional strategies to be effective, they must be based on a long-term vision and the necessary administrative capacity. of course, the implementation of macro-regional strategies must be financed, not only from the eu budget, but also from national and regional contributions. therefore, the countries and regions participating in the strategies should clearly define the human resources commitments and the funding they will make available to implement them. simplification of procedures would also undoubtedly contribute to making macro-regional strategies more effective. to make the most of the potential of the macro-regions, many of the necessary changes identified in the report, which i fully support, still need to be made.
i supported this report. i'm a big opponent of electric fishing. i am convinced that this system or this method of fishing is plundering and damaging the oceans and seas, that it is disrupting the ecosystem there, disrupting the structure of the seabed and killing species that are not, in principle, hunted, and it is good that we, as parliament, are sending a clear signal that we are not subject to lobbying interests and are trying to approach the environment in such a way as to protect it. that is why i endorsed the report. if some of the proposals that have supported electric fishing were to pass, i would not vote for this report, because i think it is really very important to be environmentally friendly. it is one of the european values to protect the environment, to preserve it for future generations.
i voted against a report that does address a number of real issues, such as the greater impact of climate change on poor communities, with calls for appropriate programmes to be directed to disaster-hit areas, with aid, with calls for local food choices and with condemnation of the sexual violence against displaced migrant women. however, many of the records contradict common sense by making an unwarranted link between climate change and the migration crisis. and some laws sanction unacceptable violence by imposing penalties on groups or districts that do not respect gender parity. other laws are also unacceptable, such as encouraging women to work in forced labor, providing environmental services such as afforestation, or protecting natural resources.
madam president, yes, there was too much economically-motivated enthusiasm, as well as diplomatic gestures of friendship towards the regime of the ayatollahs, accompanying the conclusion of the jcpoa. but this topic is absent in the streets of tehran. the people’s slogans are different and are against a very violent regime, also playing a very destructive role in the region and globally. we now have to send a very strong message condemning the actions of a regime that really has a very bad record of intimidating and murdering its own people. ayatollah khamenei quite recently spoke of executions. yet, at the same time, we receive the foreign minister of iran in brussels pretending that the jcpoa is the most important topic. our message is too weak. we have to deter further, eventually very destructive, actions by the regime.
madam president, i cannot understand why the european union, whose mouth is full of ‘diversity’, tries to make every state a copy itself. iran was supporting syria, saving it from the hands of sunni extremists, and the european union is not supporting iran, it is supporting its enemies. why? only yesterday, islamabad declared that only the possession of nuclear weapons saves pakistan from heinous aggression. why do you try to prevent iran from possessing the same weapons that are in the possession of its direct neighbour? why is iran treated in a different way than, say, spain and catalonia. why is iran condemned for not recognising israel, while spain is not condemned for not recognising kosovo or abkhazia. moreover, i think the european union must be destroyed.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the high representative is unfortunately ill, and at very short notice i am replacing her. kenya is an essential player in east africa, an economic powerhouse and an important pivot for regional stability. we all know how fragile the horn of africa is, with conflicts in somalia, burundi, sudan and south sudan. and we all know how important this region is for europe as a connection between the mediterranean and the indian ocean, between europe, africa and asia. we europeans are strongly committed to that region, with our development cooperation, with our investment, with our military and civilian missions, but also a growing diplomatic engagement. let me recall the meeting, convened by high representative mogherini and ministers of the member countries of the intergovernmental authority on development in late september in brussels, and we intend to repeat that meeting this year. this makes kenya a natural and vital interlocutor for us. kenya’s positive role in regional dynamics is impossible to underestimate, and relative prosperity, democracy and stability are essential to the whole of east africa. kenyan troops are contributing to peace and security around africa, starting with somalia, and the country has given shelter to about half a million refugees fleeing from war in other african countries. kenya’s strength matters for all of us, but also for its own citizens and for the rest of africa and the european union. kenya’s strength and resilience very much depend on democracy and rule of law in that country, and that is why kenya’s rising middle-class demands that its business environment is improved and that more investment is attracted. all kenyans aspire to free and fair elections with credible and accountable institutions. we have always supported kenya in its path towards stronger democracy, including by sending election observers to every kenyan presidential election since 2002. this is also an example of kenya’s commitment to transparency and its relationship with the european union. our observation missions are never meant to declare a winner, that’s not our job. they are there to observe, to report and to make recommendations on how to strengthen the electoral process. the electoral observation mission to kenya last year has reported substantial progress compared to previous elections, and yet the 2017 electoral process was still marked by some irregularities, political polarisation and acts of violence. as you know, the mission’s final report was published last week. the chief observer, marietje schaake, and her team covered both the august general election and the unforeseen but historic decision by the kenyan supreme court to order a re-run of the presidential election last october. the mission’s recommendation for the re-run election has already played a constructive role. in particular, they helped the kenyan electoral commission to make systematic changes which largely eliminated irregularities in the transmission and tallying of results, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank marietje schaake and her team for the fantastic job that they did there. the mission’s conduct has been balanced, constructive and highly professional, in line with the terms of the agreement with the kenyan authority. throughout the electoral process, ms schaake and her colleagues have reported on both the irregularities and the progress they witnessed, in the best interests of kenya’s democracy and of kenyan citizens. despite this overall positive environment, the mission has received criticism from supporters on both political sides. this wasn’t just unpleasant, it was totally unjustified. the mission’s final report provides a good basis to discuss how to further improve kenya’s electoral system, and we are ready to support this work, and high representative mogherini has sent senior officials to nairobi on saturday to pass this message on to the kenyan authorities, even if no government is yet fully formed. there is room to build on the progress already achieved, and there is a duty to do so for the people of kenya. kenya can move towards a more inclusive governance and more inclusive development. all communities and ethnic groups should feel that they have a role in the country’s present and future. kenyans have already decided on the devolution of powers, using the existing constitutional tool to achieve this goal. kenya has huge potential for economic and human development, it can be a force for stability and growth in the whole region. but the only way to unleash its potential is by making democracy stronger and more credible. the people of kenya can count on the european union to help them achieve their potential, and i know that the people of kenya can count on the european parliament. so again, thank you for the work that you have been doing. it is difficult, it can be exhausting, but it is truly contributing to peace, security in democracy in our common region.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. as the commissioner has already mentioned, the re-run of the kenyan presidential elections last october raised the standards for transparency of procedures and verification of results. and despite the flaws and some mistakes that the electoral commission has seen, uhuru kenyatta's victory has been declared valid by the kenyan supreme court. at the same time, however, there is a serious concern about the growing political conflict resulting from the consequences of the late legal changes in the electoral law and the personnel changes in the composition of the electoral commission. reform of the electoral process should be carried out well before the elections and should be based on a broad consensus among all stakeholders. i think it is important that a dialogue be established between the supporters of the president's camp and the opposition in order to avoid further social polarization, which is beginning to take on the dimensions of ethnic conflict, entailing the risk of mass violence. it is important that, in line with the recommendations of the eu observation mission, the ruling party is open to cooperation with opposition groups to guarantee the impartiality of the electoral bodies. strengthening the position of kenya's independent electoral commission is essential to prevent the election results from being undermined in the future. the use of force and repression by the security services against the opposition, especially the use of firearms against demonstrators, which has led to the death of more than 60 people, is also condemned by us and by the international community. but opposition leader raila odinga should also refrain from actions that would undermine the constitutional order of the country, such as the planned unilateral proclamation of the so-called people's president. it is therefore essential that the odinga group assume the role of a constructive opposition building its political position through legal and peaceful means. all political forces in kenya must work together to prevent an open conflict like the wave of violence in 2007-2008 that we know has killed more than 1,500 people in the country. the recommendations in the report of the eu observer mission are a good guide to improving the electoral process and establishing the legal framework, effective practices and strong institutions that together form the basis of democracy. despite the challenges, the future of one of the most stable and democratic countries in africa is a matter of focus. in particular, the european union and kenya should seek to enhance cooperation in the years ahead.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr klaus buchner on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering, technical assistance and transit of dual-use items (conversion) (com ((2016) 0616 - c8-0393/2016 - 2016/0295 ((cod)) (a8-0390/2017)
mr. postle, what are you doing? the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. shall i read it to you? you are not speaking about, i beg you, speak about the report of mr klaus buchner.
thank you, mr. ambassador! the rules apply to everyone, including you. i would remind you of article 162 (2). you'll have to remember that in the future.
mr. chairman, please! there are always new threats that are often difficult to predict. this means that we have to constantly change the european security policy, and within that policy we have to constantly change the rules on the control of trade in dual-use goods. because the same products and technologies can be used to help fight crime, and fortunately they do, but the same products and technologies can also be used by criminals and even governments to violate human rights. therefore, among the proposed changes, i attach particular importance to the new definition of dual-use items. this definition better encompasses new types of products, and i'm thinking here specifically of computer surveillance technologies. this certainly increases our chances of fighting crime on the one hand, but on the other hand it should make life very difficult for those governments that want to violate human rights and the opposition.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 january 2018.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr bernt lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the trade and sustainable development chapters in eu trade agreements (o-000098/2017 - b8-0617/2017) (2017/2988 ((rsp)).
mr president, safeguarding human rights and workers’ rights, but also environmental standards, is one of the biggest commitments here in the european union. even though it is sometimes challenging for european companies to respect such provisions, we continue to improve them and we are proud to set an example in the global world. at the same time, we also expect that our international partners follow the same standards. that includes trade. i therefore welcome the commission’s initiative to improve and ensure more coherent, ambitious and effective trade and the sustainable development chapter in the future free trade agreements. however, the question is how to stay competitive whilst promoting such a high level of environmental and social standards. trade policy is closely linked to sustainability: trade is a means to promote not only economic growth, but also norms and values that will help to address today’s complex global value chains, achieving a level playing field whilst promoting social inclusion and environmental protection. european companies for many years now have been committed to delivering such sustainable solutions, both in the eu and abroad. nonetheless, free trade agreements are not – and should not be – a way to promote the eu’s social environmental standards. trade agreements must first and foremost focus on enhancing trade and maintaining the international competitiveness of european companies. we should therefore not make the beginning of negotiations or entry into force of the eu free trade agreements conditional on the ratification of international conventions and treaties. i think we should promote such issues during the negotiations, but we should definitely not limit ourselves at the beginning of such talks.
in writing. the european union's trade policy is to be based on values. it is intended to go beyond regulating and deepening our trade relations, and to have a positive impact on our partner countries. one way to achieve this is to include sustainability chapters in eu trade agreements with third countries. they can be tools for promoting relevant international labour and environmental standards, as well as a general outlook on human rights and good governance. however, it should be noted that the provisions on the sustainable development chapters are already binding and subject to a mutually recognised dispute settlement mechanism. the european commission should therefore exhaust all existing means, including the dispute settlement mechanisms that have just been agreed. the criminal sanctions mechanism proposed by some could destabilise relations with our trading partners with whom we want to conclude balanced trade agreements and thus have the opposite effect of what was intended. moreover, such an approach would lead to a lower level of protection due to the more limited scope of free trade agreements. so we have to start using the resources we have effectively before we decide to punish our partners.
i listen to all this, especially the first speeches, and i feel like i'm at a meeting of the central committee of the communist party of the soviet union: exactly the same phraseology, that we need to strengthen our journalists, it's true that we can't allow everyone to say what they want, but we have to control all this, that the enemy threatens our socialist democracy. the same thing was said in the soviet union, i remember it, i'm 75 years old, i remember it as it was. you speak exactly like them. russian propaganda is partly based on soviet models, and therefore it's fortunately still a little clumsy, but european propaganda is based on dr. goebbels's models: lying and lying all the time. all the papers say the same thing all over europe. mr. van baalen here was talking about the shootings on the maidan. who, i'm sorry, said it was our men who fired? mr. paet, your colleague, told baroness ashton on the phone that our men fired on the maidan. there are basic lies here, and let's stop with the lies. that's the first thing.
mr president, the best way to deter russian propaganda is to remain consistent. every time we feel the temptation for a rapprochement with russia, we have to know that there are necessary prices to be paid, usually by the weakest among us. eight years ago, the smolensk catastrophe happened. the russian propaganda in the first quarter of an hour afterwards was extremely successful all over the world, including in our countries. listen to the sound of silence whenever i even mention this thing nowadays. we have to know that next time we wish to go into deeper dialogue over the heads of others, there will be victims. this time, they will probably be among ukrainian children.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the importance of the report adopted by parliament in november 2016 by polish mep anna fotygia, which was largely devoted to russian propaganda, and its conclusions, which, with some resistance, are nevertheless being implemented. secondly, the creation of an institution called stratcom to investigate diversionary techniques, to counter disinformation, to conduct educational campaigns, which seems to me to be an institution that should rather be excluded from the eu's foreign service. it should simply be an independent institution, an independent eu agency. and finally, thirdly, i would like to commend the increase of one million euros in the funds for the fight against russian propaganda, but at the same time i would like to remind you that russia spends a thousand times more per year on one of its television channels, russia today.
mr. chairman, please! the basis of our security in the east, and also the basis of the security and independence of the countries that are neighbours to us there, is our real, not virtual, solidarity, above all solidarity in security policy. we have heard today in this chamber the representative of the german social democrats, one of the largest political parties in europe, speak and convince the european council that it is time to normalize relations with russia. crimea is occupied, russia refuses to return the plane that killed the polish president and which is the main evidence in the investigation that is ongoing in this case, and we are talking about normalization? what is this norm that our colleague in the very centre of this parliament spoke about today? is this the career of chancellor schröder, his distinguished expert role, which he continues alongside president putin?
mr. chairman, please! thank you for acting in my best interest. this is not surprising: propaganda and propaganda activities against foreigners, others have always existed and exist. are you surprised that russia is not happy if the european union is getting stronger? how can she be happy when she's lost lithuania, latvia, estonia, poland, the czech republic, hungary and so on? and we know that he's going to do that to weaken the european union from within. i feel that if we show that we can be proud of the european union as a beautiful project, it will increase our resilience. we have a new tool, social media, which is really uncontrolled, because we want it to be, which is publicly available, and if you find records, for example from our discussion today, that russia today or sputnik have reported better than the bbc, agence france or polish press agency, and if we pass this on to the public, it will be encouraged to watch russia today. then we shouldn't do this. if there are records, we heard our colleagues here: "before you talk about russia, get your affairs in order, because the union itself is not good". it's important that our debate doesn't give the impression of being powerless. they've talked, but they can't do anything. here we should support the commission's efforts. we are also taking steps in the european parliament to ensure that we are not the ones who cannot.
mr. chairman, please! i think the issue that is most frequently discussed here, namely fake news, is just one example of russian propaganda and russian propaganda channels, not the most important one. we should think more deeply about this problem, which my colleagues have raised on the sidelines: the influence of russia and russian propaganda on european politics and politicians, and the role of certain european politicians or european countries in the dissemination of russian propaganda. it is not just the populists, the nationalists, and the other people who are called that. take the example of gerhard schröder, former german chancellor, mentioned by mr jürgen. is he a nationalist, a populist? he is not a man who, like his party, always speaks very positively about the european union. what about his activities? well, i think it's a lot more dangerous than all this fake news. similarly, all those politicians who say that nord stream is just an economic project are spreading russian propaganda.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that most of us in the european parliament today are aware of russian propaganda and its harmful effects on the european union and democracy in general, but it would be very difficult to leave the chamber and say: 'well, we have said it and we can do nothing', as mr liberace has pointed out. well, we have to do something. russian propaganda, of course, is many, many pianos, but we've all pointed to one of them here, namely russia today. yes, they want to influence public opinion in the european union, or in general in the world, but we also have to influence their public opinion. europe today should be our answer. we have experience, we have radio free europe. there are such initiatives and the european union, the european commission should support them.
madam president! in recent months, we have seen attempts to manipulate public opinion and influence the outcome of democratic elections in the european union and beyond. many of these experiments were the work of the russian federation. russia has developed a strategy of false propaganda whose main objective is to weaken and break up the european union, inter alia by supporting anti-european tendencies and strengthening nationalist and populist parties in individual member states and in neighbouring countries. i regret to say that there are also in this room representatives of the party who defend this action of the russian federation. the example of ukraine is particularly telling. influenced by lies spread by kremlin-controlled media, foundations, internet bots and an army of trolls, many eu citizens have been led to believe that ukraine is responsible for the bloody war being waged by russia on its territory. madam president! in the face of this information war, we must act now and decisively. i call on the european commission and the representatives of the member states to take action to develop an effective strategy to combat this phenomenon.
madam president! youth unemployment is a very serious, multi-dimensional problem. on the one hand, there is the risk of isolation, social alienation and even pathologisation of these young people, and on the other hand, there is the untapped potential of young human capital. and importantly, the current generation must realise that today's potential young workers will face a double burden, one of demographic change and the other of the need to ensure the stability of pension systems. so, youth employment is a prerequisite for a better future for the generation. we have a number of comments on the report. first, there is a need to leave more flexibility to member states in managing the allocation. simplify and reduce bureaucratic burdens and standardise monitoring rules, introduce the obligation to report real performance indicators such as taking up a job, studying or obtaining a qualification, rather than just receiving a job offer or training provide genuine support for neets, necessarily reward the participation of young people with disabilities and prevent discrimination against them, and engage in concrete cooperation with youth organisations.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr tomc on this very good and important report. we are talking about the youth initiative, an eu financial instrument for those countries and regions where youth unemployment is above 25%. in particular, we are talking about targeting neets: young people who are not working, not studying, not in school, not participating in any kind of training. we have 7.5 million of them in europe. some of them are unemployed (looking for work), but about 40% are economically inactive. they're not taking any action to change their status, so we can expect that tomorrow, the next day, or the year after that, they'll be in a similar situation. how destructive such an experience is to the individual and to society as a whole, need not be explained in this house. so we should focus on solutions and acknowledge the fact that most neets are women. the risk of women being neets increases with age. the largest proportion of women are in the 30-34 age group, when eu programmes for young people are no longer able to help them. i'm not going to let you down. the union programmes should be better targeted in view of the predominance of women among the most vulnerable young people. gender-sensitive specific projects in the member states should be programmed and evaluated. this requires not only the collection and analysis of gender-disaggregated statistics, but also a clear change in the objectives and content of programmes funded by the youth initiative.
i'm not going to let you down. i would like to congratulate mr tomc on his insightful report and his well-thought-out recommendations. i believe that barriers to access for young people with disabilities to the employment initiative and the youth guarantee should be removed. this is both about ensuring that training and traineeships are accessible by rationally adapting workplaces, learning, teaching materials, etc. to the type of disability, and about disseminating information about these initiatives in formats that are accessible, for example, to blind and deaf people. in addition, member states should review their case law and benefit systems. it is worthwhile to limit the adjudication of incapacity for work in a system which prevents simultaneous registration with employment offices and thus prevents participation in the youth employment initiative. we should also limit situations where taking up a traineeship or starting a job is associated with the risk of immediate loss of benefits. getting a job is of tremendous importance to any young person. for a disabled person, employment is also a ticket to normalcy. europe needs its young people, their commitment and their talents, and it also needs the talent and commitment of young people with disabilities.
madam president! i believe that tackling youth unemployment should remain one of the top priorities of the european union and the member states, which is why i have supported the youth employment initiative from the outset as a new instrument dedicated to this 'unfortunately still persistent' problem. i am pleased that the commission has decided to increase the budget for the initiative and i hope that the funds will be available for this purpose - if and when needed - also in the future financial perspective. however, i would point out that in order to make the instrument more effective, more attention should be paid to matching the offer to the qualifications of unemployed young people in such a way as to take into account the needs of employers and to fill vacancies. already, more than a third of employers are signaling a lack of hands to work. it is the imbalance between the demand for and the supply of skills that is increasingly responsible for the persistence of youth unemployment, more than the consequences of the financial crisis. the provision of appropriate training courses and apprenticeships, among other things, can make a significant contribution to this problem. moreover, more emphasis should be placed on monitoring and communicating the results so that member states can benefit from the exchange of good practices and systematically improve their offer.
madam president! just five years ago, youth unemployment in some member states was over 40%. today, the situation has improved considerably, although there are still countries where much work remains to be done. the uneven implementation of the initiative in the member states makes the monitoring and evaluation process a major challenge. there is a lack of transparency in the assessment of the results achieved, and there is no common understanding of the key concept of 'good quality of traineeship' or 'good quality of workplace'. member states also have difficulties in determining the target population. the court of auditors found that the member states applied criteria which were too general and superficial. this has resulted in, among other things, a problem in identifying the population of neets, the so-called passive youth. for example, no member state has been able to develop methods of reaching this group. this means that the people who need it most receive the least. it is important that member states make greater efforts to identify and develop appropriate strategies for neets who are inactive and excluded. the main objective of the youth employment initiative is to complement national funding, not to replace it. unfortunately, the available data show that in some member states, funding from the initiative has replaced national funding. the programme thus does not bring the significant added value that was envisaged when it was set up, and the costs are borne by young people. in conclusion, the youth employment initiative is beginning to generate many positive effects in the fight against youth unemployment, but the defined shortcomings must be removed, the elements mentioned by marek plura, among others, must be introduced, so that those in need actually benefit from the programme. i would also like to thank roma tomc for a very good, honest report.
in writing. i am only moderately relieved to receive the report on the implementation of the youth employment initiative. the problem of youth unemployment at eu level, which is reported to be about twice the average rate of unemployment overall, is a priority for us, and the youth employment initiative is one of the key instruments we are implementing to tackle this problem. however, i would point out that both the youth guarantee and the initiative itself can only be a first step towards an integrated approach that takes into account the employment needs of young people. in particular, i consider the initiative to be an adequate stimulus to carry out wide-ranging reforms and to stimulate better coordination in the area of employment and training. in this context, i would also like to emphasise the employment potential of the cultural and creative sectors. the cultural and creative industries in europe provide more than 12 million full-time jobs, representing 7.5% of the eu's working population. moreover, they make a significant and greater contribution to the employment of young people than any other sector. finally, in the context of the implementation of the initiative that we are discussing today, i would strongly stress that well-functioning monitoring and reporting systems remain the key tools for a proper assessment of implementation.
madam president! i also join in this thanksgiving that the two vice-presidents are presenting a strategy on this matter, which was announced and expected at the end of last year. it is very important that we complement the circular economy strategy that has been closed by this presentation from the state. and it's not regulated yet, but i think that these announcements that are here, they're a sign that we're all thinking about the fact that we have to think about plastics, or plastics, from prevention to ecodesign to good, so to speak, efficient ways of collecting what's being produced. it's said that 300 million tons of different kinds of plastics are produced every year worldwide. and this significant percentage is also produced here in europe. but what i would like to point out is that in this document you do not mention the link between this plastics strategy and the bioeconomy, and yet there is a kind of hope at the moment that renewable raw materials can be the source of plastics that are biodegradable. of course, there are some that may contain these components and they won't be biodegradable, but a lot of it is biodegradable. we know what's going on in the agricultural commodity markets. some of them are already polymerized into plastics (such as sugar by lactic acid). secondly, i would like to draw your attention to the problems of marine litter. i think we will not do this as the european union and the member states alone. we need to work with our neighbors here. the mediterranean sea is an example. without cooperation with the middle east and africa, we cannot prevent this pollution, especially when it comes to microplastics.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i should like to say at the outset that although we have worked and are still working on the transformation of this regulation in accordance with a special legislative procedure which establishes the european parliament in a consultative role only, while the council acts unanimously as the sole legislator, we have undertaken with full enthusiasm the work that was to be done here in our house, in the european parliament, and i think we have done it really well. so i'd like to start by saying thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for preparing a really good draft for the conversion of the brussels iia regulation. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, and in particular the co-rapporteurs, with whom i have had the great pleasure and satisfaction of working on this regulation. although the commission's proposal was indeed judged to be very good, parliament has put forward some of its own proposals which i strongly believe improve the commission's proposal and at the same time make the council want to take account of our comments. i would like to touch on a few of the most important issues. first, the matter of hearing the child. for us, this is a key point in this regulation, because we believe that in a parental dispute concerning the exercise of parental authority or the issue of child abduction, the so-called parental kidnapping, the child is unfortunately the most vulnerable party and this party must be absolutely protected. the child must be the subject of the case and not the object, which is why we put so much emphasis on all the elements that allow us to preserve the best possible position of the child. of course, we cannot order a hearing in every case. that decision remains independent of the court, but the thing that we're introducing as a novelty is the need to justify a negative decision in the event that the court decides not to hold a hearing. we also point out that these hearings should be characterised by certain common standards. they should take place in a child-friendly atmosphere, i.e. outside the court. they should be conducted by a specialised judge or a trained expert, without the influence of third parties and without pressure from parents, and therefore without their participation. this is a very important issue. we suggest that in these parental responsibility cases, consideration should be given to the possibility of using mediation as an alternative dispute resolution method. mediation offers a variety of options, more than a court, and also reduces the time of the proceedings and, of course, allows you to save a lot of money. the next issue i want to address is the issue of the placement of a child by a court order outside of his or her biological family, i.e. in a foster home or foster care. i have added to the commission's proposal my own proposal, which was accepted by the legal affairs committee, so that the court may consider, in making this decision, the possibility of leaving the child with a family who is in the country where the case is pending. for long-term cases, this is a very, very useful solution. we welcome the commission's proposals to abolish the exequatur procedure, i.e. to move away from the need to confirm processes carried out in other member states of the european union, which has already been verified in other cases. thank you for the opportunity to make this introduction. i'll be eager to hear the debate and refer to it at the end.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank you all very much for this very interesting discussion. the vote tomorrow will be the last time parliament takes part in this legislative procedure, but i hope that what we have achieved and what is adopted in the vote tomorrow will indeed be the impetus for further work in the council. i would like to reassure everyone that tomorrow, to the best of my knowledge, we will not be voting on any amendments to my report, and as far as i know, no such amendments have been tabled and this will be a single vote. i therefore encourage all those who have not yet decided to support this report to do so. i would like to thank all the other members who, on behalf of the political groups, have given their support to my report in the vote tomorrow. the regulation, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure, is obviously intended to solve the problems of family life, but we are not in the least interfering with the scope of family law, which is the responsibility of the member state, and we have not exceeded the principle of subsidiarity either in the commission proposal or in my report. i would like to draw attention to one point which is undoubtedly extremely important, and that is that it will be a test of mutual trust in the judicial systems of the member states. and only by having a high level of this justice in each country will we be able to build that trust for other future solutions.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to join all those who are expressing their joy at the completion (tomorrow) of the final ratification of the marrakesh treaty. this is a testament to historical justice. of course, it took too long. i think the procedures that were going on could have been cut down a lot. fortunately, they were not the result of a reluctance to ratify the marrakesh treaty by the european union, but were due to procedural issues concerning the competences of the european union and the member states. in any case, the time that has been wasted must be made up quickly, because there are unfortunately a huge number of blind or partially sighted people, and the restriction of access to cultural goods is obviously extremely unfair. it is good that we are finishing this work today and finally making this possibility available to our citizens, if only because, unfortunately, the number of blind and partially sighted people will increase for civilization reasons. mr andersson, whom i thank for this report, asked how it would be implemented. i hope soon. i would like to call on the member states, as i did last autumn, to implement the provisions of the directive and the regulation immediately, in cooperation with the organisations of blind and partially sighted people, as well as with publishers and all other institutions involved.
in writing. human trafficking is one of the worst things you can do. it's an absolute moral evil, regardless of the sex of the victims. of course, some forms of trafficking are particularly emotional, such as when it involves children or sexual exploitation, and this remains by far the most common cause of trafficking. women are the most frequent victims, and the trend is clearly moving from poorer to richer countries. nor can we ignore the worrying increase in the number of cases of slave labour the agricultural sector in particular is vulnerable to this type of exploitation. the aim is to balance differences between countries so that disparities in the resources of societies and thus the indirect causes of falling into such exploitation conditions are eliminated. finally, like many others, i call for the implementation, at the level of the european union and its member states, of all the measures provided for by law to prevent and combat this practice, to detect and severely punish the perpetrators and to provide material and psychological assistance to the victims.
on behalf of the ppe group. "culture as a priority" sounds good, but implementation is much worse. it's 11 p.m., there are 12 members in the room, which is only 1%, in the audience, there's one person, maybe waiting to turn off the lights. this late hour is a certain illustration of the approach to culture that always appears at this time, which is extremely late. but what i want to say today is that i'm very excited that 2018 is the year of heritage, but you have to look at the state of cultural participation, especially in this area. i'm doing a report on barriers to cultural participation, and i've also done a report on heritage. i want to say that the latest figures show that only 30% of europeans visit a museum or a monument at least once a year. once a year! 80% are proud of their cultural heritage, but they don't touch it, they don't participate in it. if you ask why this is happening, there are three answers. first, there is a lack of time, second, there is a lack of cost, and third, there is a lack of information. what is the purpose of a year of inheritance? well, firstly, to improve knowledge of european heritage, and secondly, to increase participation in culture by removing the barriers that people feel. if only 30% of europeans visit a museum or a tourist attraction once a year, and 80% of them have a museum or a tourist attraction right under their nose, very close, it means that this effort, which should be made, is being made only to the so-called minimum. i'm noticing that.
madam president! i'm afraid i'll have to give up some of my time to accommodate mrs. james's speech. namely, i'm amazed by the thesis that closing countries, closing markets, closing careers is opening up to young people, is giving them a new chance. well, it's the opposite, which is why i'm totally supportive of the dossier we're talking about today. the issue is very important: the services market generates 71% of gdp and 68% of jobs in the european union. this shows what a power it is, in fact it is the pillar, the foundation of the common market. but the market for services is not doing well because of regulations on regulated professions. suffice it to say that years have passed and directive 2005/36/ec is still not being implemented by many countries, including 6 countries that have not submitted their national action plans at all. this is also reflected in the numerous regulations. there are tens of thousands of regulations, tens of thousands of regulations, across the european union. the very fact that 1,200 national authorities are dealing with this issue shows how confusing and complicated it is. 5500 professions in europe are regulated. i therefore support all the requests and proposals to the european commission and the european union bodies to introduce deregulation of professions in the european union, harmonisation and control of the activities of the member states in this field.
in writing. – the harmonisation of minimum training requirements of regulated professions (such as doctors, nurses, teachers and others) from 2005 was an important step in order to facilitate the free movement of those specialists across the eu. there is about 5 5000 regulated professions in the union, standing for approximately 22% of all labour force, which were touched by this piece of legislation. nevertheless, until now, the full clarity and transparency on the different national requirements, exceeding the minimum harmonisation, have not been achieved. therefore, the member states along with the european commission should improve the overview of the further country-specific requirements and to develop a better comparing system in the publicly accessible database (regulated professions database). i acknowledge the need to protect the national consumers and recipients of services. however, the commission shall take action and launch infringement procedures to prevent adopting any kind of discriminatory or disproportionate laws that have or will appear at national states’ level. furthermore, i welcome the ec’s recognition of need to evaluate the influence of modern technologies and digitalisation on professional services to secure a high level of competitiveness.
in writing. there are over 5500 regulated professions in the union, with marked differences between member states in the degree of restrictive approaches adopted. studies carried out by the european commission show that member states have problems in assessing their proportionality. this is important, as these occupations account for 22% of the workforce in all sectors of the economy. it is also of concern that not all provisions of directive 2005/36/ec have been fully implemented by member states to date, despite the deadline. the european commission has recently taken a number of positive steps in the area of regulated professions, including the creation of an interactive map that allows citizens to check the requirements for access to professions across the union, or the regulatory severity index in the member states. however, as the rapporteur rightly points out, a holistic analysis of their impact should be subject not only to a quantitative but also to a qualitative assessment. the european commission should also focus in the near future on the impact of scientific progress, technological innovation and digitalisation on regulated professions. the changes that are taking place are creating new opportunities for these professions, but they are also posing challenges for the eu labour market. we should therefore start to think about how to adapt the existing regulation of regulated professions to the technological and social changes that will affect us in the coming years.
in writing. – there is no doubt that regulated professions represent an important element in our economy. therefore, the overview of national systems of regulation of professions and of proportionality assessments conducted by member states is very important. the report highlights the quality of professional services and the fact that this is of paramount importance in preserving the european economic, social and cultural model. it identifies the main aspects of the implementation of article 59 of directive 2005/36/ec and recalls the importance of professional regulations in relation to the protection of legitimate public interests. the report also indicates specific areas in which member states are invited to consider improvements in their regulation. it is also important that the commission has developed a new indicator on the restrictiveness of professional regulation, which may be more effective. in the future, we should monitor the implementation of the recommendations. if necessary, we will be able to measure and address the remaining barriers – a point also underlined in the report. to this end we should also continue to reflect on the impact of scientific progress, innovation and digitalisation on regulated professions.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. freedom of religion is a fundamental freedom and a fundamental human right, and we must always respond where it is violated. nigeria is home to the largest christian population in the region, with nearly half of its 186 million people being christian. we know the story of the girls, almost half of whom have not yet returned home, who were abducted in chibok. there are also increasing attacks by islamist groups on christians, kidnappings, abductions of nuns, youth, priests, volunteers, and attacks on christian relief organizations, but also on people who participate in religious practices. i think the international community should act to stop this, despite the fact that often the very foundations of economic existence can be a pretext to inspire such situations. we want to call for more pressure, including in the context of the ongoing political dialogue with nigeria on the cotonou agreement on human rights and democratic principles, to ensure that nigeria respects its obligation to protect the people living on its territory.
madam president! for over eight years, nigeria has faced serious threats to the security of its people. attacks by boko haram, ethnic violence and kidnappings have become a sad daily occurrence in the country. i was saddened to learn that the past few weeks have brought yet another escalation of conflict between christians and muslims and between shepherds and farmers. president buhari said additional security forces had been dispatched to the area to find and hold accountable those responsible and prevent further attacks. we will therefore be watching closely to see if president buhari will keep his promise, as the actions taken so far have not brought the expected results. we should also call on president buhari to reform the nigerian security forces, which have so far failed to stem the tide of violence.
madam president! nigeria, because of its size, its location, its population, is at the very heart of africa, and it's a place that reflects all the geopolitical, political and social issues of the continent. we must do everything we can to give full support to the nigerian authorities in their fight against boko haram. this is a priority. of course, there are some things to be judged about how this fight is being waged, but the priority is to protect people from terrorism. of course the world needs it, africa needs a consolidated nigeria, but strictly political tensions should be resolved through dialogue. that is why it is so important that the problems related to the activities of the ipob movement in the south are also resolved through political dialogue. violence must be met with force, differences must be resolved through dialogue.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, yesterday, suicide bombers killed at least 12 people in the northeast of nigeria. on the same day, a canadian and an american citizen were kidnapped in nigeria, and two policemen were killed in the exchange of gunfire with the kidnappers. it is a sad reminder of how volatile the security situation in the country still is and how crucial it is to address the situation in order to unleash nigeria’s immense potential. nigeria is africa’s most populous country and its largest economy. it is a country of great natural resources, but even more so, it is a country of entrepreneurs, artists, scientists and a country of innovation. we, as the european union, are investing strongly to help the people of nigeria bring their country forward. we invest in innovation, for instance, with the digital4development initiative, in energy efficiency, in local entrepreneurship, in the green economy and in the fight against climate change. the european investment bank is about to increase its portfolio in the country. the visit of vice-president ansip to abuja last year is a good illustration, among others, of this broad partnership. yet, an unstable security situation is holding back nigeria’s potential. boko haram continues to carry out frequent attacks in the northeast of the country. the attacks have mostly affected the majority muslim communities in the region, with little regard to the religious or ethnic origin of its victims. nigeria is now engaged in a major counter-offensive, alongside niger, chad and cameroon. we have supported their multinational joint task force since the very outset, both politically and financially. there is, however, a long way to go to secure peace, security and long-term stability in the country. we are also firmly committed to the protection of human rights in nigeria, including in conflict situations, and we have mobilised all our tools to achieve this goal: diplomacy, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. let us not forget that nigeria is now home to 1.7 million internally displaced persons. the eu has already mobilised over eur 155 million to address the humanitarian crisis, and an additional eur 250 million for development in the northeast. there are other violent conflicts in nigeria, including in the southeast, the biafra area, and the oil-rich niger delta. clashes between farmers and herdsmen in the so-called middle belt have caused hundreds of deaths. while the herders are mainly muslim and the farmers mainly christian, the conflict reflects the limited access to land fuelled by climate change and demographic growth. we, however, share the concern that conflicts can turn more religious with time, with dire potential consequences. the situation of minorities and vulnerable groups is also a concern to us, and a key subject for discussion. the european union has made its views very clear that discrimination against certain religious, ethnic or gender groupings should not be tolerated and that it is the responsibility of any state to protect its citizens. the upcoming elections in february 2019 will likely add to the complexity. i wish to thank the european parliament for the pivotal role it has played in our election observation missions, cementing the role of the eu as a key political player. high representative/vice-president mogherini hopes to visit nigeria again in the near future for the next ministerial dialogue, in order to raise our shared concerns and to push our cooperation forward.
in writing. i would like to express my concern about the situation in central nigeria, where clashes between cattle-rearing ethnic groups and settler farmers have intensified. this conflict has intensified in recent decades as a result of population growth, climate change and related droughts, and the increasing desertification of northern nigeria, and more recently as a result of the activities of the terrorist group boko haram. these factors force the predominantly muslim pastoral peoples to move southward, bringing them into conflict with the predominantly christian agricultural settler ethnic groups. christians who have lived in these areas for centuries have had to contend with the aggression of groups seeking grazing land for their cattle. the resulting clashes have killed more than 1,500 people and displaced 100,000 last year alone. i call on the president of nigeria, mr muhammadu buhari, to fulfill his promises and take decisive steps to stabilize central nigeria and to intensify the fight against boko haram in the north. it is crucial to create economic opportunities for pastoral groups deprived of access to pasture, and to accelerate the work on the regional great green wall project to limit the progressive desertification of the northern part of the country. these actions will address the root causes of the conflict in both the short and long term.
on behalf of the ecr group. we remember the tiananmen massacre, we defended liu xiaobo, persecuted for the rest of his life. now, another list of tibetan monks, lawyers like wu gan, and even taiwanese human rights activists. let us not forget that a country which is particularly cruel to its best citizens, as well as to citizens of other countries, is our strategic partner. the human rights dialogue is not a sufficient instrument for the european union to act. the actions of the people's republic of china which we are discussing today should be condemned by all the countries of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i think we're all united today. the situation in the democratic republic of congo has been a recurring theme since the beginning of our mandate. he also appeared on the occasion of the discussion of conflict minerals, the so-called blood minerals. we are talking about a country that is very rich, with great opportunities, but where the current political and humanitarian situation and the security and living conditions of the citizens are at the lowest level, for one reason only, and that is because president kabila is trying to extend his term by breaking the constitution and not meeting the conditions proposed in joint declarations by the bishops' congress, social organizations or human rights defenders. therefore, i think it is very important at this time to guarantee the safety of citizens in the face of numerous murders and attacks on protesters by the security forces. all of this puts more than six million people at risk of starvation and has already seen the first cases of cholera. this rich country is in danger, and therefore the conditions for free elections may be the only solution and the only way to restore stability to the drc, while allowing the european union and the commission to step up the humanitarian aid that is so badly needed in the country.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report, not just because it is a rather extraordinary piece of garbage even by the standards of this parliament, but for fundamental reasons. please note that the union is fighting unemployment and we have high unemployment. the union is particularly active in combating youth unemployment, and youth unemployment is even higher. the reason for this unemployment is the action of the european union. for example, the issue of youth. we send young people almost by force to various universities and then the young people are too old to work. a man of 22 is too old to learn a trade. we specifically cause youth unemployment, and then we marvel at the results. if i were a young man, i would say, "lord, protect me from my friends, but i will defend myself from my enemies".
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the written question to the commission pursuant to rule 130b by mr alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the eu-norway dispute concerning the fishing for snow crab in svalbard (o-000077/2017).
author. – mr president, thank you very much for the floor and thank you, commissioner vella, for being here with us. i would like to present this major interpellation on the snow crab fishing conflict with norway on behalf of the committee on fisheries. today, after the last round of negotiations with norway and after the council of ministers, we already have the answers to two of the three questions i posed before. first of all, the european commission never truly intended to include the snow crab as the sub-protocol to the eu-norway agreement and nor did some of the member states that are beneficiaries of this agreement support such an idea at all. also, having no other recommendations from the european commission, the council has decided to roll over its decision from last year about the creation of a european snow crab fishery sector. i presume such a decision was again based on the formal recommendation of the legal services of the european commission and the council. so again, this new sector has been included in the tax and quotas regulation, but just on paper for the moment. this decision cannot be implemented by member states because european fishermen are being prevented from operating by norwegian authorities. this is not only the result of the unilateral action of this third country but also because the european commission failed in the negotiations with norway and also failed in internal dialogue with the member states. the commission failed to find a practical solution that would let the european fleet start catching snow crab immediately. as a result, european fishermen continue to lose out and norway is still disrespecting the european union as a partner. in this situation, the first of the three questions addressed to european commission still needs a very clear answer. let me repeat it again. how does the commission intend to proceed to obtain a fair solution allowing eu vessels to fish for snow crab in svalbard? taking this opportunity, i wish to address one additional issue. following very carefully this case for years now i cannot resist the impression that all the parties participating in this discussion are focusing on the legal side and their own interests only, and are forgetting the environmental aspect of this matter. according to scientific researchers, the self-producing population of this invasive species is migrating from the eastern to western part of barents sea towards svalbard. the biomass and density of the snow crab is increasing and is expected to reach a level close to the estimated carrying capacity of the barents sea. snow crab is spreading and may threaten the barents sea’s fragile benthic ecosystem. the conclusion seems to be obvious. it would be wrong to take a purely political or business-driven approach to the present and future commercial exploitation of snow crab. appropriate and exhaustive measures should be agreed and based on the most recent scientific and catch data. by blocking the european union’s efforts to enable european vessels to collect catch and scientific data, norway is increasing the risk of damaging this ecosystem. having mentioned this, i insist that all parties to today’s discussion should seek common ground for cooperation and compromise to enlarge necessary knowledge about the snow crab population, for the sake of the necessary protection of the barents sea ecosystem. to conclude, i would like to add one more thing. we have to respect the law, that’s the bottom line. we have to respect the law that is in place. according to international procedures, international treaties, i think, we have the higher ground, we the europeans and member states who are party to the paris treaty, which is in effect. that being said, i believe that if we cannot reach the proper conclusions in a very short time, maybe it will be time to move forward with legal action against norway. i would like to avoid this situation, but maybe it will be the only way to convince our partners in norway to respect and uphold the law.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it seems to me that the problem raised in the interpellation is purely legal. article 2 of the paris treaty allows states as parties to the treaty to fish and hunt freely on islands and in territorial waters, including for crab. the treaty also states that the norwegian government has the right to take legal and practical measures to protect nature and fisheries, provided that the restrictions imposed will apply equally to all the countries covered by the treaty. the treaty also provides for the possibility of setting up companies which can be set up by entities from countries which have ratified the treaty, where the principle of equality also applies and the prohibition of monopoly is prohibited. all countries that are parties to the treaty have the right to fish in their territorial waters and to extract oil or gas from the seabed, if necessary, but they must respect norwegian law. it is worth emphasising that the european union as a whole is not an entity that is a party to the treaty, and the fact that almost all eu countries have ratified the treaty does not change anything from a legal point of view. the union as such is not yet subject to any of the rights provided for in the treaty, which is probably why the norwegians are opposed to fishing there by vessels of member states which have had licences issued by the european union, rather than by that state as a party to the treaty. any country that has ratified the treaty can take advantage of the opportunities, as exemplified by norway and the russian federation, which mine hard coal there, or poland, which has its own research station on spitsbergen. it is the commission that should lead to the change of the law.
i'm closing the debate.
i declare a recess in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i would therefore like to ask the following question: in the light of what the president has just said, can we expect the bureau of the european parliament to review the statements made by members in the member states? i would also like to ask when the bureau of the european parliament will address the shameful remarks of mr verhofstadt, which insult the polish people and which have been made here in this parliament? because this is an unprecedented situation. you want to evaluate the statements made by members outside the european parliament. under what rule of the house? (applause from the ecr group)
mr. chairman, please! when the ecb announced its european bond purchase programme three years ago, we expressed our reservations about the effectiveness of the action. in retrospect, we were right, and the cheap money is going mainly to the public sector, which spends most of it on consumption. it is therefore difficult to speak of a spectacular inflationary effect, and it would be ridiculous to speak of a growth effect. unfortunately, these conclusions are not included in mr fernandez's report. it is also disappointing that you are so positive about the ecb's federal character and support the continued issuance of european safe assets, i.e. eurobonds. the polish delegation cannot fully support this report and abstains. mr president of the ecb, you have boasted about the high gdp growth in the euro area. i want to remind you of what you know: that there are countries in the european union with more than twice the economic growth. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. monetary policy, fiscal policy and social policy alone will not solve the problem of economic growth. a sum of measures, a complete package of market functioning is necessary to stimulate its development. in the case of the ecb, i do not think it is fully complying with its mandate.
mr. chairman, please! the 2016 report is the second report i have read after the 2015 report and i have to say that i am satisfied with the report itself. both of these information relate to the process of the eurobond buy-back, the conclusion of the stability package, as well as other elements. what concerns me today is the lack of a policy on information that is sufficiently precise to prevent such serious uncertainties in this room about the future policy on eurobonds. on the one hand, there is information, opinions that it is going well, that the bank is backing away from this policy, and on the other hand there are accusations that this policy, if carried out or continued, will be a source of serious problems and disruption in european finances. i would point out the need for a better information policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the scandal we're talking about is obviously much wider than just these experiments. it's also a political scandal. the secret of the polysynel is the links between the political elites and the managers of the leading automotive companies in germany. the fact that a once trusted colleague of angela merkel went straight from the chancellery to a high-level position at daimler is just one example. so it's not just about volkswagen, as our colleague henkel is trying to convince us. we all remember the european commission's dispute with volkswagen, which the commission ultimately lost as a result of the surprising ruling of the court of justice of the european union. unfortunately, the commission has not been persistent in this matter. the commission notes that the land of saxony has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the undertaking. so it's questionable whether the state and federal governments really didn't know about the emissions manipulation and the experiments on animals and humans. and they're responsible for it, too.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to reiterate what i said before. without the car industry taking responsibility and admitting that what they are doing is immoral, we will not achieve everything that we can because of course legislation and changing the legislation is not sufficient. i want to state once again very clearly that once we have the legislation – because for now we do not have tools as the commission to interact and to react in such a situation, but agreement on the type approval was reached in december so i am happy that we will have it – the situation will of course be different. but, as far as animal and human testing are concerned, this is another situation again. so now the national authorities must check what the situation looked like in europe, whether testing on animals took place and whether we have evidence of this. we probably have the evidence of testing on humans, but again the only link we have is the european charter of fundamental rights. on animal testing we have the legislation for the cosmetic industry and i will discuss with my colleagues in the commission whether to perhaps extend this testing to cars and the car industry. but as far as extending the emission tests on cars to the health issue, of course politically i support the idea, but technically we should look at all emissions, not only from cars. this requires a much more holistic approach, including specific car tests on health. we can of course discuss it, but again i will come back to this. without morality in the industry, i do not think we will cover the whole range of problems that may appear one day or another. i will do my best because i will soon have – or my successor will soon have – tools for emissions and for the things that are under the type approval regulation, but animal testing is much wider than we thought during the emissions scandal. as you probably know, i am very dedicated to enforcement. we are currently – i think for three or four months now – analysing information after the first packet of infringement procedures that we opened against five member states for failing to fine volkswagen. so, regarding the second package, we are currently analysing the information and data provided by the member states and i can again reassure you that, if member states do not cooperate – and they are not so very open on this – i will go ahead with the next step of the procedure. we are not ready for this yet. on the hardware update and the list of equipment, we do not have the technical data in the commission to provide such a list. if you ask me to do so, i can ask the member states to provide this information for us, but i can assure you it will take a few more months or even years. for the list of equipment and hardware, i am very open to this. i have only recently heard about this list of equipment and hardware updates, so i can ask the joint research centre whether they are ready to prepare this for us. on recalls, maybe you know that under current regulation the commission has no power to issue eu—wide mandatory recalls. this will change with the new type approval framework. it is still currently the joint responsibility of volkswagen and the member states. i have written a few letters over the last few months calling on member states to issue mandatory recalls. after this letter the number of member states with mandatory recalls increased from four to seven, but of course the results of the recalls are not the same everywhere in europe. in those member states where the recalls are mandatory they are much higher and much better. if the situation does not change in the next couple of weeks, i am prepared to take further steps on our side and of course again it is legal action against member states where recall rates are very low and definitely for those where the recalls are voluntary the rates are very low. on the comparison with glyphosate and with the other tests or studies that were submitted, i want to underline that these tests on animals that we are discussing now are not required by our eu type approval legislation. so in the context of eu legislation in other areas and other domains, industry has to submit the studies. this is mandatory. it has to submit the studies when applying for approval of the substances and this was what happened with the glyphosate. here with private testing such an obligation under our eu type approval legislation does not exist so i think this comparison with some other cases is not relevant. regarding the response to the written questions to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), i was told that the current horizontal rules did not foresee such a submission of the written answer ahead of the regular exchange of views, but i can assure you that i will provide you with this response this evening or tomorrow morning. i have been told that we can only provide written answers ahead of the inquiry committee. that is why i am very open to having this exchange with the envi committee, but i was told that horizontally the situation is not appropriate, but we will provide you with the answers to the written questions at the latest tomorrow morning. i want to finish by reiterating what i said at the beginning. we cannot fix mistrust only with a regulatory framework and with legislation. this must come from the industry itself, but it is not happening for now. this is not happening for now and i think this is the biggest shame and the saddest thing in all of this because, after the diesel scandal and after the whole discussion we had with them, i thought that this transparency would be everywhere. unfortunately, even if i compare the dates, i see that the moment the diesel scandal occurred, it finished. this was about the moment when they were testing on animals and humans – it was 15 and 14, i checked it – so it was at more or less the same time. we will do our best on type approval and emissions. i will discuss testing on animals with my colleagues in the commission because this is joint work with the commissioner responsible for health and consumer protection. we will of course discuss it together, but i will still repeat that, without proper discussion with the industry and without a proper admission by the industry that they were doing the wrong things, we will not achieve 100% success because life is much broader than we can imagine. could you imagine a month or two ago that something like this would be discussed today? no. i was not surprised because i have been living with this for the last two years so i know how things are going, but still i was shocked. can you imagine what will happen in the next six to ten months? again we will try then to prepare legislation and to change the legislation. the legislation is extremely important but it is not the only thing. we have the legislation in place. member states have the legislation in place. but it does not work if there is no will for it to work.
thank you very much for those answers. commissioner, it is true that life is difficult and sometimes it surprises us, but sometimes we wish the commission were not always surprised. i think the problem is going to be important and we're going to meet with it. thank you for joining us this afternoon. thank you to all my colleagues for their comments. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by rosa gräfin von thun und hohenstein, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on geoblocking and other forms of discrimination based on customers' nationality, place of residence or place of establishment in the internal market and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2009/22/ec (com ((2016) 0289 - c8-0192/2016 - 2016/0152 ((cod)) (a8-0172/2017)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there are days when you should be happy, when you should feel satisfied. today is one of those days, because today is the culmination of the work of many people, many institutions, many organizations. today we can say that by working together we are achieving something that is measurable for the citizens of the european union, something that will really make a positive difference to the lives of each of us. almost two years ago, the current commissioner here, andrus ansip, proposed a ban on refusing to sell online because of the nationality or location of the customer. because it is not normal that in the united europe of the 21st century, where we can move freely between countries, there are still such meaningless restrictions in the world of electronic commerce. today we can say that we are going for success, success is not complete yet because there is so much to do, but thanks to the new law each of us will feel concrete changes for the better. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote. no more refusal to sell when buying goods or services online because of the customer's place of residence or nationality. the end of technical barriers to access to websites and applications. no more automatic redirection to a seller's website in another country without the customer's consent. no more different conditions for the sale of goods and services, including prices, in the same shop, depending on the nationality or place of residence of the customer. no more denial of sales based on credit card country. we also took care of the dealers' business. if the entrepreneur does not direct his offer, if he does not direct his business activity to a given country, then the consumer is not still geoblocked, but organizes the collection of goods himself, and thanks to this solution, small sellers do not have to know the regulations of each of the 28 countries of the european union separately, because we have not yet harmonized these regulations. i'm not hiding it. we wanted more. we have been working with the commission to include at least non-audiovisual content, copyrighted content: ibooks, music, software, games. unfortunately, we were unable to overcome the council's resistance. i'm grateful to my colleagues for their cooperation and for their willingness to compromise, because this makes geoblocking - for now only physical products - a thing of the past. i would like to pay tribute to the representatives of the estonian presidency such a small country and its outstanding representatives have shown how efficiently complex negotiations can be conducted, especially as they often faced more challenges among their council partners than in the negotiations with parliament and the commission. so once again, i thank everyone: the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, including in particular the other rapporteurs, and my brave and competent colleagues.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank parliament for this important achievement, and particularly the rapporteur, róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein. you have demonstrated your belief in this proposal and how it will benefit europeans. thank you for helping it become reality. the geo-blocking regulation lies at the heart of the e-commerce package that we designed to remove barriers for consumers and companies trading online. it will end artificial segmentation and unjustified discrimination based on nationality or residence. using either of these as a reason to deny access to websites, goods or services will finally no longer have a place in europe’s single market, either online or offline. today, only 37% of websites allow consumers to buy from another eu country, because people get blocked and rerouted elsewhere. this situation cannot exist in a digital single market, and we have to end it. our aim is that, by christmas, all europeans will be able to enjoy online shopping without being blocked, rerouted or discriminated against. that is why we need to adopt this regulation without any further delay. i would also like to ask for your support and commitment to make the entire digital single market a reality on the ground. again, the clock is ticking. we have to move quickly, and adopt and implement initiatives where the co-legislators have already reached agreement. we are making good progress on e-commerce, and european consumers should soon feel the benefits of recent political agreements, which need to be implemented quickly. from 1 april this year, new rules on the cross-border portability of online content services will allow europeans to access their music and e-books when they travel to other eu countries. to make sure this happens, companies should comply with the rules as from their dates of application. we recently agreed on new rules to make prices for cross-border parcel delivery services more transparent and affordable. consumers and companies, in particular smes, will be able to send and receive products across the eu with greater ease and confidence. it is also essential for the success of the geo-blocking regulation that we work as hard as we can for this regulation to be quickly and formally approved. in december, new rules on vat for electronic commerce were adopted. they will facilitate vat collection when consumers buy goods and services online and make it easier for online businesses to comply with their vat obligations. member states should now work quickly and efficiently to transpose this directive. in addition, it is vital that we make progress on other proposals that are still being negotiated and are necessary for the digital single market. i am talking about the proposals on digital contracts, which concern contract rules on the supply of digital content and the online sale of goods. thank you for your attention, i am looking forward to the discussion.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not a fully functioning digital single market is important for the european cultural and creative sectors. we welcome the commission's approach to excluding electronically supplied services providing access to copyright-protected content from the scope of the proposed regulation. e-books or music services have different funding and licensing models that require careful analysis. the committee on culture therefore supports the review clause, on the condition that special attention be paid to the specific features of cultural goods and services. however, it must also be remembered that there is a particular complexity in the field of audiovisual services and territorial copyright regimes. for this reason, audiovisual services are dealt with in a specific, separate legal framework, in the avmd directive and the satcab directive. as the commissioner said, the trilogues are running on both dossiers. the proposal on geoblocking should not cover audiovisual services. the committee on culture is opposed to the change in the regulation of audiovisual services through the back door and outside the sector-specific legal framework.
the question asked by raising the blue card. let's say the french government is funding something, say disneyland. shouldn't disneyland be introducing discounted prices for the french at this point?
mr. chairman, please! geo-blocking is a problem that many citizens face on a daily basis. studies show that around 30% of consumers shopping online have experienced problems with a purchase from a foreign website at least once. practices such as forced and automatic local redirection are clearly contrary to the principle of equal access to services and discriminate against customers. unfortunately, the provisions of the services directive have proved insufficient to avoid such situations. i therefore support the commission's initiative to bring in more legal clarity and enforceability. however, the case is extremely complex, and i am all the more pleased that after a year and a half of intensive work, we have been able to reach an agreement which seems to be a very reasonable compromise. the prohibition of redirecting to other websites without the express consent of the user means that consumers will have access to a wider, non-discriminatory offer.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this debate was just music to my ears. let’s remember from where we had to start. we organised a so-called ‘mystery-shopping survey’ and according to those results 2% of those people who tried to buy some goods and services from another eu member state just could not get access to those websites. then 27% of those lucky people who got access to those websites were not able to register because their ip addresses were wrong addresses: they were from france, from germany, from austria, from poland – from some eu member state that was wrong in some way. then 32% of those lucky people who were able to register were faced with delivery problems and to find solutions for those problems we launched our parcel delivery proposal, and i am happy that we were able to find consensus on that proposal. but even 26% of those people who did not have issues of any kind with delivery problems, could not pay because their credit cards were issued in wrong the countries: in sweden, in finland, in latvia, in lithuania, in the united kingdom – in some eu member state that was wrong in some way. all in all, just 36.6% of all those people who tried to buy some goods and services from another eu member state were able to conclude those purchases successfully. this is not the single market we would like to have in the european union when only every third person is able to conclude those purchases successfully. we have to hurry up. we have to have some votes here in parliament, in the council, then publishing, then a signing ceremony and then nine months, and then it will already be christmas time. but our people deserve to enjoy their christmas shopping next year without being afraid of being blocked or re-routed. so i would like to ask you to hurry up. then i would like to state very clearly that the commission is fully committed to carrying out a comprehensive assessment of this regulation’s scope to identify if other sectors should also be included. we will pay particular attention to the non-audiovisual copyright protected services like software, games, e—books and music that the regulation only covers only partially now. we will keep our promise to the co-legislators. once again i would like to cordially thank the rapporteur ms róża thun and all the members of the european parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission vice-president for his words and for the excellent cooperation, and thanks also to your wonderful team, mr vice-president. colleagues, thank you for this constructive debate, which has been music to my ears. this compromise was long, this compromise was difficult but we have managed to achieve it. this compromise, thanks to the determination and hard work of many of us, will bear good fruits. i am asking for your broad support in the vote tomorrow. we proved today that the european union can deliver concrete results for citizens all over europe, bringing positive changes in our daily lives, but for the full completion of the digital single market we still need many reforms and a lot of work. we need to do our best to break down national silos. there is no place for protectionism in our common european market. the next step we should take is harmonisation of the vat rules. we also need to unify copyright protection rules and open up the services market in the audio-visual sector. we need to improve the functioning of parcel delivery within the eu, and this is not all. i am counting on the commission to continue the role of a leader in this extremely important process. i hope that the council will help us in these efforts. as for us, in parliament, i hope to see this project at the forefront of our agenda. already now, i am looking forward to the review in two years, which you have just mentioned mr vice-president. citizens want improvement, they want changes, for a more united digital single market, and we will keep working on delivering that improvement.
it's been a real pleasure chairing this debate. it's been a long time since we've had such a high-level consensus in this room. i would like to thank vice-president ansip very much and wish him a pleasant evening in strasbourg. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 february 2018. the following are to be taken into account:
, in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the ban on geo-blocking is an important element of the digital single market strategy. the removal of this principle will extend the freedom of electronic commerce and give european citizens better access to e-commerce websites. traders will no longer be allowed to block or restrict access to their online interface by customers on grounds related to their nationality or place of residence. given that today only 15% of europeans shop online from stores in other countries, the removal of geo-blocking will contribute to the development of the single market and remove important barriers to trade. this will also benefit european businesses, which will be able to benefit from the strong development of cross-border online trade. at present, services relating to copyright-protected content or intangible works are excluded from the scope of the regulation. but i hope that in two years' time, when the implementation of the directive is reviewed, these services will be included. this will help to remove the remaining obstacles to the free movement of goods and services and to maximise the development of the internal market.
in writing. – we aspire to support the realisation of the full potential of the internal market as an area without internal barriers. ensuring the free movement of goods and services is one of our greatest values and achievements. nowadays, the internal market includes also e-commerce, which is one of the main key drivers for the growth. according to statistics only 15% of consumers buy online from other eu countries and 8% of traders sell cross-border (as compared to 24% of domestic sales), which is absolutely not enough. therefore, we should try to reduce trade barriers as fast as possible. it is unacceptable for the consumers to be prevented from accessing certain websites, not be able to buy certain goods in other member states or have to pay a different price - only based on their place of residence or even temporary location. i appreciate hard work and effort of the rapporteur róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein. the adopted report covers many important issues that required difficult inter-institutional negotiations. the final agreement opposes discrimination in the e-commerce which is an important step forward for the eu.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the decision on the fair taxation package (ii and iii) (2017/2857 ((rsp)).
madam president! a balanced and realistic approach to environmental ambitions and the associated costs of technical constraints is essential in european energy policy. unfortunately, the eu ets compromise does not take these assumptions into account. it does guarantee poland the use of unused allowances from 2013 to 2020 and increases the number of allowances under the compensation mechanism slightly, and - importantly and thankfully - takes into account the specificity of the production of heat for municipal purposes by continuing to allocate allowances free of charge to this sector on favourable terms. at the same time, it unfortunately limits the possibility of financing fossil fuel-based investments under compensation mechanisms, even those that are economically efficient and have exceptionally low emissions. i cannot therefore support this report in its entirety.
madam president! in television and in this era, you only remember what happened two weeks ago, not before, but i grew up without television. i went to college before there was television, so i remember well the time when hundreds of thousands of young people went to save the earth, when professors made charts, proved that the earth was in danger of catastrophe, that the earth was in danger of a monstrous global cooling. all of this was proven, just as it's now being proven by other lunatics, that the earth is in danger of total overheating. well, fortunately, there was no european union then, a group of people who are willing to spend billions just to show that they're doing something, just to show that they're doing something. that's why no one went to jail then, and you're going to jail for wasting people's money on meaningless activities. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! thank you for preparing the reform of the eu ets. we have a slightly different view of this reform in this chamber, but we are all agreed on one thing: we all thank the rapporteur. i would also like to add all the co-rapporteurs, and also those who were on the itre committee, because that committee had a certain task to perform, namely to defend our reindustrialisation, to defend industry, steel producers, cement, paper and fertiliser producers. i think we got it. this is very important. and remember, too, that in the fight to protect the climate and the environment, we often face energy poverty, and that is very much linked to the problem of heating in many regions that are moving away from coal, step by step. therefore, by maintaining the possibility of giving the district heating sector special treatment in the modernisation fund, which is also partly innovative, we have a chance of protecting people who could suffer from a lack of energy supply. that's also the advantage of the system we're putting in place.
madam president! we had very different views at the beginning when the debate on this reform started. i would like to point out that, firstly, we have achieved an important objective which will allow european companies to avoid being exposed to emissions leakage and to continue to be protected. secondly, instruments have been put in place to enable the energy sector in countries that need to be transformed - such as poland - to receive funds from the scheme to cover part of the costs of the necessary transformation. thirdly, the heating sector has been given support and special treatment, which in countries such as poland is crucial for reducing not only co2 emissions but also emissions of pollutants such as sulphur oxides, nitrogen, dust and in general the whole smog phenomenon, which is associated with low emissions. i also want to stress that it is a pity that the district heating industry as a whole has not been included in the list of priority projects of the modernisation fund. i think that the evaluation of this regulation will undoubtedly lead to some additional evaluations, but what has been achieved here is also the joint merit of the rapporteurs and of all those involved in the debate.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. we're continuing to debate the energy issue. we all know that energy is the most important thing for the economy. it is difficult to function with an uncharged telephone, a car without gasoline, cold radiators, or equipment in factories, offices, or hospitals that is not working. we want to have security of supply, that's the basis of what we do. we want to minimize the environmental impact - it's about climate, but it's also about eliminating things like smog. and finally, we want to keep energy prices low and we want to keep industry competitive. we have the clean energy package, and the name of the package says a lot about what energy, what energy future and what transformation in the european union is all about. if we take all of this together, the only way we can actually do this in the long run is by investing in new energy technologies. this is a matter of fundamental importance for our future and the future of the energy transition. we certainly want to unlock public investment, private funds and citizen engagement to support our efforts to find new energy solutions. it is also about technological neutrality, which is guaranteed in the paris agreement. three points seem to me to be the most important for investing in new technologies in the european union. first of all, simplification of eu programmes and funds. we've been talking about this for a long time, but if we really want to take advantage of the long-term funding for new energy technologies, we have to do it. and we need to increase funding for energy, new energy technologies. in the framework programme we would like to see at least 120 billion euros, but the point is to increase the energy funds by 50%. finally, greater national spending is very much needed, but coordination of national spending and european spending is absolutely necessary, because we often repeat the same research and are not efficient enough. remember, we have our european institute of clean technology, which is about innovation and technology, and half of its activities are about improving energy technologies. we should use this institute. we also have a clean coal technology centre that has been funded with european money. we have digitization, we have problems in transport, in construction, we have our environmental policy, regional policy, we have infrastructure connections, we have to connect all these programs. and that's the only thing that can really make a difference in the energy technology transformation, because we're not just transforming our energy market, we're transforming technologies. all these activities should support innovation in the generation, transmission, storage and consumption of energy.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for drawing up a communication from the european commission on such an important subject as energy innovation. we talk all the time about the clean energy package, we talk about energy poverty, we talk about security of supply. we can't do without the kind of innovation that we're talking about here. first of all, we have to change the consciousness of our citizens. it's not just a matter of switching energy suppliers or buying equipment with the right energy class. i am convinced that with the help of a mobile app, we will soon be able to buy the electricity we need from a small cooperative, for example in lisbon, which has solar panels on the roofs of nearby apartment blocks, or after shopping, our refrigerator will calculate the electricity demand, connect to the energy portal and auction off the power we need from the owner of a geothermal power plant in slovak poprad, or our electric car charged at night will resell some of the energy at daytime rates while waiting in the parking lot at work. the windows in our homes will retain heat, but also, with the right devices installed in the windows, they will produce electricity, so this is a completely new, attractive future. if we don't convince our citizens that this is worth fighting for, that this will also save us energy, save us money, we're not going to win. so thank you for the action, commissioner. i'd like to thank all the counter-reporters, we've been working really well together. we started with a slightly different point of view, but we managed to get the job done in such a way that the committee voted on the report by a clear majority. thank you very much to all my colleagues.
in writing. citizens are the key to the successful introduction of low-carbon innovation from smart meters in their homes to large wind farms. finding new and better ways to engage europe's citizens in the transition to a low-carbon economy and to give voice to the existing strong public support is crucial. more engaged citizens take greater responsibility for their own and the eu's energy security and help develop new and original business models. to help european citizens change their minds and understand how they can innovate and use digital tools to produce, consume and conserve more sustainable and clean energy, systematic education programmes should be introduced. it is also necessary to lower the barrier to entry in order to facilitate participation by citizens and to ensure openness, transparency and fair competition. the european union must become a world leader in energy innovation. it must also simplify eu programmes and funds so that investors and researchers can use them more effectively. accelerating the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy is both an urgent necessity and a huge opportunity for europe.
madam president! it's the anniversary of the yalta system. in fact, throughout this term of office - three and a half years - we have never discussed this, and even on the occasion of the 70th anniversary parliament rejected this possibility. but in reality, the repair of the division of europe, the surrender of the west, is the real test of european unity. a europe of true solidarity is a europe that removes the effects of communism and soviet domination in central and eastern europe, and supports, not attacks, those countries that experienced it. today, every act of silence on yalta, every act of pretending that it never happened, is a denial of european solidarity. it's time we started thinking about this big task that we still have to do.
madam president! we are watching a strange spectacle right now, namely the polish government has passed a strange law protecting the dignity of poland, and strangely, even stranger, the israeli government has reacted, protesting against the fact that the polish government does not want to be spoken badly about. it is said that this is a pretext for the israeli government to demand from poland compensation for the property left by jews who died without descendants as a result of german actions. well, i would like to point out that this demand, which is repeatedly formulated, is completely extreme nationalism, because the jews murdered during the german occupation were citizens of the republic of poland, and not of israel, which did not exist at that time. therefore, i would like to emphasize only one thing: whoever supports this type of demand supports an extreme absolute nationalism unknown in polish law, in european law.
madam president, during this parliamentary mandate, this house has repeatedly called for the so-called eu blacklist of non-cooperative jurisdictions. this list has finally been published by the council in december last year and this is a step in the right direction. i welcome the decision by the council, but there are a number of doubts about firstly, the criteria that have been used in order to establish this list. let me remind you that only 17 countries or territories have been included on that list, whereas we have evidence that many more jurisdictions should also be considered. but more important is the fact that just after one month, in january, the council has removed eight countries from that list. so my proposal to the council is, firstly, to give us a precise list of criteria and, secondly, to tell us how this list will be developed in order to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance across the world.
mr president; prime minister, welcome. i share your sorrow about brexit. on the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, i think that our lack of respect for both principles contributed to the effect of the referendum in the uk, rather than populism and external intervention. unfortunately, it is still visible in the eu institutions. on foreign policy principles, i note that the russian ambassador receives royal treatment in the institutions, just as moscow is a destination of political travellers, and unlike the treatment given to the ukrainian ambassador and kyiv. please ensure in council that our focusing on the western balkans does not take other challenges off the european agenda.
madam president! the single european market is, in my view, our greatest asset, but in the age of electronics and the internet, it is difficult to imagine a single european market that does not also include the digital market. so we're going in the right direction. we are making changes to the unjustified - and this needs to be said clearly - discrimination based on residence or place of business, let alone nationality. we'll also have restrictions on charging extra fees or redirecting pages. but it's also fair to say that this is just a step in the right direction, and not a good solution, because there are a lot of exceptions here. what's probably most important to every ordinary citizen is all the areas covered by copyright. unfortunately, you will still be unable to watch movies or tv shows while traveling.
madam president! geo-blocking is proof of the existence of a europe without very significant and acute borders. we can't say that these are virtual boundaries, but rather that these are boundaries in a virtual world. geo-blocking also provides evidence of business models with services that are not adequately tailored to the customer. i am drawing attention to this because it affects a very large number of citizens, including those who use the internet for educational purposes. i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has prepared this report with great skill. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that, despite the fact that the debate on this report is taking place at a faster pace than in roaming, we are still moving extremely slowly. the european parliament and the european commission are losing ground in the eyes of the public, mainly because they are slow to respond to these problems, which, as we can see in this chamber, affect many people and require very rapid action.
madam president, i was very happy to support this regulation, this proposal, because it is a clear thing where we can show the citizens of the european union how europe contributes to their more interesting, fuller and more comfortable lives. this regulation, as my colleagues have said, will make it easier for citizens to buy goods online within the european union. it breaks down the geographical blockage and i think it's good that we talk about it a lot, because especially in the countries of central europe, where the idea of european integration has been in crisis lately, we need to tell citizens constantly what the european union is doing for them, how it is improving their lives. and this is the concrete story of concrete european union legislation that will allow the average citizen to have better access to goods on the internet, to get those goods in greater supply and at better prices. so thank you, and i'm happy to support the motion.
madam president! i abstained because there were some things that were reasonable here, but i'm totally in favor of mr. hannan because there are some things that are unacceptable. there's an assumption that the seller doesn't want to sell to someone. normally, salespeople want to sell. just please understand the estonian seller that he can sell under certain conditions to an estonian customer, but covering the transport costs to portugal is something different than covering the transport costs to estonia. second, it violates the principle of free contract. i can't have a german driving my car. i have the right to say, because i don't like germans, that i will not sell this car to any german or anyone who does not sign, that i will not sell this car to a german, and i will not sign the same clause. this interference is a violation of the freedom of contract. of course, this is crazy, but people who have weirdness have a right to exist in our world. and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. sorry to take up your time. i already made my point in the debate yesterday. i don't know if this is a time for questions or reactions, but neither mr. hannan has graciously bothered to read this report, nor mr. korwin-mikke, because you gentlemen tell such nonsense and gibberish that the hairs on the head of an oak stand up. nobody is forcing anybody to go to a country, to apply the rules of a country that they're not going to. there are special facilities for sellers to not block, but to be able to sell according to the laws that they know, that they use in their own country or where they have their business. it's about not discriminating against the consumer. sell, but on the seller's terms if he's not running his own business. read it before you start yelling.
madam president! i abstained because the solutions adopted in the report, which are called 'cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments', limit the possibility of financing fossil fuel-based investments, even those that are economically efficient and low-carbon, through compensation mechanisms. so the title of this report is just a title. we propose solutions that invest in advanced coal technologies that will give a real chance to reduce emissions of pollutants. moreover, the ets reform interferes with the right of member states to decide on the energy mix, which should remain the exclusive competence of member states in accordance with the treaties.
madam president! today's debate and vote came at an extraordinary time, i must say. ten years ago, the global financial crisis hit europe and the member states of the european union very hard. but also because yesterday we had a very deep crash on wall street in the united states, the biggest crash since 2008. the japanese, taiwanese, hong kong and shanghai stock exchanges also fell. so it's worth thinking about the european central bank as the guarantor of europe's financial security, in the wake of those bad times. in this respect, the ecb is to be commended for its contribution to economic development in recent years, including through interest rate cuts and asset purchases.
madam president! it is important to highlight in this debate that the european union is the world leader in the fight against climate change and environmental protection, but we are not among the first countries to invest effectively in clean energy innovation. so we need to make changes. what kind of things? first, inter alia, the coherence of the action of the european union and the member states. secondly, the coordination of eu, national and regional research and innovation programmes - which is not the case today - and of course financial support, but in this respect i would say that long-term financial security and long-term legal certainty are fundamentally important. unfortunately, in the member states, energy investments are investments for 12, 15, 20 years, and legislation or financing can change over a few years. this obviously prevents effective action.
madam president! we adopted the commission's proposals in one vote, but that does not mean that it was easy. it took several dozen compromises and a lot of work, mainly by the rapporteur, mr buzek. i would like to stress that support for these proposals by the commission and the european parliament is to build european security. the geographical compatibility of the place of production of energy with the simultaneous consumption of that energy is a security for europe, because it means independence from external suppliers. i would also like to stress the need for a long-term policy on this subject and point out that this report is a very serious and extremely difficult challenge. with the very slow rate of execution of the records that are there, there's no chance of success.
madam president! of course i voted for the 'accelerating clean energy innovation' project because i think that beyond the political divisions, what we have in common is that we want people in europe and the world to actually breathe air that is healthy and clean. it is worth noting that this acceleration of clean energy innovation should not discriminate against any energy source, and unfortunately i have the feeling that the european parliament is still discriminating against advanced coal technologies, which are an opportunity. innovations in modern coal technologies are an opportunity to reduce energy poverty in poland. we have a mine like that! we are a nation standing on coal. if we get money for modern coal investments, the air in poland will be cleaner and healthier.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. both clitoridectomy, the most common form of excision, and other such procedures are classified by medicine as serious bodily harm that threatens not only the health but also the life of women because of serious physical and psychological complications. although such practices are punishable in europe, there are no consequences for non-european visitors. it seems necessary that both the european parliament and the other institutions should influence and counteract the practice in those countries where it is tolerated, by eliminating it completely from the legal order and social practice. it is estimated that there are about 200 million women who are maimed, especially in african countries, and this requires awareness and education, including on the criminal responsibility of parents and caregivers who give their underage, unaware children to this kind of violence. in addition to education through all forms of communication and prevention, attention should be paid to the health consequences and the suffering of women who are maimed throughout their lives and to the violation of human rights. sexual abuse, which is cited as a common cause of mutilation, should be prevented, not by sex education (sometimes with pornographic elements), but by education for family life, promoting chastity before marriage and in marriage, since this is evidence of a person's spiritual development and humanity.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! every year, three million girls are severely mutilated. female genital mutilation is performed on girls as young as a few years old, often during their first menstrual period. the procedure involves the removal of the clitoris, and in extreme cases, the labia minora and parts of the labia majora. this is done by female doctors, often in unsanitary conditions, in many countries in africa and asia, but also in europe, in the communities of immigrants from these regions. it is estimated that in 2016, there were 200 million women worldwide who were living with this type of injury. in cultures where such cruel practices are practiced, the procedure is designed to help the girl enter adulthood, integrate into society, and become chaste and faithful to her future husband. in reality, it is torture, a source of infection, serious illness, nervousness, and even death for girls and women. attempts to eradicate the disease in africa and asia by means of legal prohibitions have so far produced no satisfactory results. even in the european union, where half a million women are maimed and where every member state has criminal laws allowing the perpetrators of these atrocities to be prosecuted, there have been only a few criminal trials. the question for the european commission is: why are we still unable to deal with this phenomenon? why can't we either enforce the law effectively or use prevention effectively? and why is it that this cruel practice, this cruel kind of violence against women, continues even in our countries, where it seems that we have all the means to curb it? just one more sentence: i think that the medicalisation that is being used by some countries as an attempt to get out of this crisis, as a harm reduction, is a very bad solution and that we should, however, apply other policies that will effectively get us out of this disaster.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! today is the international day for zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. the statistics on this crime are frightening: two hundred million women worldwide. women and girls are not exempt from this problem in the european union either. this problem is growing with the growing migration crisis, and we are debating this issue in the european parliament today. some of us have empathy and sensitivity for women and girls who are being brutally mutilated. i thank the commissioner for presenting a programme which the commission is implementing more or less effectively, but which is taking action to protect girls and women, to promote education and good prevention. but look at us: how do we discuss women's issues? the left is angry at the right, and the right doesn't necessarily want to discuss the problem with the left in the room. even the joint photo-op in the name of stigmatising this practice is irritating to the left of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen! less ideology, less self-consciousness, more reflection! only together can we make sure that economic empowerment of women makes them feel truly strong and free, and that there is no justification for such brutal treatment of them.
mr. chairman, please! the western balkan countries have been negotiating for membership of the european union for several years. although some of the six balkan countries are making good progress, the european commission's strategy assumes that they will join the union in seven years' time, i.e. by 2025. many eu countries, especially those in the visegrad group, including the polish government, but also the austrian, slovenian and croatian governments, are in favour of speeding up the integration process in the western balkans. the reasons for this are european security. the european commission, however, seems to be more concerned with utility. commissioner hahn's earlier comments show that he is primarily counting on attractive markets. but we must not forget that before we can accept new members, the united kingdom will leave our organization, causing a budget gap. the first thing to do is to reform the union in a genuine way, not just economically.
member of the commission. – mr president, first and foremost i would like to thank you for this debate and, in particular, for the very strong and overwhelming support and commitment to the whole strategy which have been expressed by almost all of you. secondly, we should not forget that we are talking about a region of 18 million people, surrounded by eu member states, which is still in fragile and shaky shape. it is not necessary, i think, to reiterate why it is so important, not least in terms of european interests, to give those people a european perspective. thirdly, i have heard several times about an accession date of 2025; some members even talked about all of the countries joining the union by 2025. that is an indicative date, a prospect, and it should demonstrate that if there is strong political will, and dedication in the countries themselves, then it is possible to conclude negotiations and join the union. but this means, once again, strong political will, a readiness to carry out necessary reforms and, in particular, to prove the sustainability of measures which have been called for. so in a way we have learned our lessons from previous accession negotiations and therefore we are now talking more and understand better that what matters is the process rather than negotiations. a process takes time and therefore it is necessary to strike the right balance between the prospect of a lasting – not to say long-lasting – process and keeping motivation and stimulation alive. therefore, it was necessary to indicate that there can be light at the end of the tunnel and link it to a certain date, but we are not saying that everything will happen without any fulfilment of conditions. it is important to stress this again and again. finally, i have two requests for members. firstly, i want to appeal to all of you. if we are to continue this process it is definitely necessary to have compromise in one form or another. that is democracy and democracy means finding a compromise in which everybody has to give in a little bit in order to get more. this is important for making the necessary progress. we also need to understand that on our side. the second request: i have felt this very strong support here, and i am also speaking on behalf of federica mogherini, but we are all responsible and called upon to communicate back home about what we are talking about here, what we are thinking, and what we believe to be necessary, for today i believe that the bigger challenge will be to convince our own citizens. we have to start communicating to our citizens why all this is necessary, why it is also in our interest, and we have to start doing it today and not in two or three years’ time. therefore, we should bear in mind that either we as europeans export stability or else we will import instability and keep the level of instability that we are still facing in the region today. so it is in our own interest, but of course our friends and partners in the region have to do their homework: they have to do what is necessary in order not only to meet european standards, but also to live up to the european values to which we are all committed and dedicated.
i thank you, commissioner, for that conclusion, which you have drawn very clearly. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in zimbabwe (2017/3022 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, zimbabwe has a unique opportunity for change. for the first time since independence, a transition of power has begun. we still do not know where this transition will end. europeans would like, first and foremost, to accompany the people of zimbabwe on the path of political and economic reform. we want to sustain their hope that real change is possible and help them realise their aspiration to democracy and social justice. this is our offer to the country: we are ready to intensify our cooperation and be with you in this moment of your history. it will be up to the people of zimbabwe to decide the new course of the country. yet i believe it is already quite clear what kind of change the people of zimbabwe are asking for. zimbabwe is a country of talented people with good education. they are asking for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. they are asking for an opportunity to prove their talents and put the country’s economy back on track. the country needs structural change that will require strong popular backing. reconciliation and an inclusive dialogue are essential, and they are possible. they will require, first and foremost, respect for the constitutional order, the rule of law and the fundamental rights of all citizens. we then hope that the new authorities will organise inclusive, transparent and credible elections later this year. a peaceful electoral campaign and credible elections can set the country on track towards positive change. it is precisely for this reason that we have already started to assist the zimbabwe election commission in establishing a credible electoral role through biometric voter registration. we are also supporting the local media with training on how to cover elections, and also inter-party dialogue and civic and voter education, and this support could be enhanced. i would also support the idea of an electoral observation mission by the european union, provided that the required conditions are fulfilled and that we receive an invitation from the government of the country. the economic situation also needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency. we count on the government to reengage quickly and substantively with the international monetary fund and the world bank. on our side, we will continue to work very closely with international financial institutions towards a package of measures to stabilise the economy and guarantee basic social services. the people of zimbabwe have the opportunity to close a difficult chapter in their history and start anew. it is a delicate and decisive moment for the country. all those who are working for progress in zimbabwe can count on us in strong cooperation with the united nations, the african union and the southern african development community. it is now up to the new authorities to make the first move. a first and encouraging discussion took place in addis ababa last week between the president and commissioner mimica. our next steps will depend entirely on the new government’s actions and its commitment to change. we see an entire people hoping for progress and for true democracy. the aspirations of the people of zimbabwe are our own aspirations and we want to make sure that this opportunity is not wasted and that the mistakes of the past do not happen again. but if zimbabweans embraces the path of change, they can count on the european union to be with them every step of the way.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. your highness! i can actually repeat these encouraging words, although recent political events in zimbabwe have given hope for the democratization of the country, the restoration of the rule of law and the improvement of human rights standards. i welcome president mnangagwa's promise to hold free elections in the second half of 2018 and to respect the will of the people regardless of the outcome. we all hope that the president will keep his word and that power will be transferred and established in a fully democratic and peaceful manner. as you have already mentioned, the european union is ready to support the elections by organising an observation mission in zimbabwe. in addition, it was recently decided to launch three projects worth around eur 3 million to support the rule of law under the european development fund. the restoration of the democratic rule of law in zimbabwe will make the international community more willing to provide development assistance to the country. it is also important to maintain stability in this region of africa. we must remember how events of the past few months have affected the countries bordering zimbabwe. botswana, for example, has taken in thousands of refugees from that country in a short period of time. at the same time, ensuring internal stability is key to making zimbabwe more attractive to investors and opening up its economy to the world. these are crucial issues for the recovery of the economy after many years of stagnation and impoverishment of the citizens due to high inflation. we will be closely following developments in zimbabwe over the coming months. i hope that the changes taking place in zimbabwe will open a new chapter in its relations with the european union and the international community and will allow zimbabwe to create the conditions for sustainable development.
mr. stuger wanted to ask a question by raising his blue card. but i would ask you to be the speaker, and since we are already late with previous speeches, i would ask those of you who are going to be speakers not to ask questions in the blue card mode.
i just want to ask the honorable member and the other members of the house to talk about zimbabwe, not other parts of africa.
mr. chairman, please! zimbabwe is an example of what authoritarian governments can do: corruption, economic crisis, unemployment (up to 90% in some circles, which is unthinkable in europe), and poverty. today, we have the opportunity to change this situation, which is difficult for the state, but even more difficult for its citizens. the first step towards this can be democratic elections, and the european union should therefore be involved in the process leading to fair, democratic elections. but i want to say that elections are not the only condition for a state to be democratic and rule of law. action must be taken to rebuild the institutions of a democratic state, to empower citizens, to build a civil society. all this is needed for the european union to renew its good relations with the country and to start again to support its development. i think there's a chance and we should take it.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for having expressed not only their hopes but also their concerns and their support for the work we are doing, together with commissioner mimica, at this crucial moment for zimbabwe. let me say that this debate will also be useful for us, as commissioner mimica is planning to go to harare in the coming months, so we will be able to follow up on the many elements that we have discussed here today and that we have shared, because i see a convergence of approach on this. it is quite easy to conclude from this exchange that the country is indeed at a crossroads, after 37 years of the same leadership since independence, and that we see two sides of the coin. we see the opportunity for a different kind of future lying ahead and for the potential of the country to be unleashed, and we also see the risk – as some of you said – that the country could go through a cosmetic operation and that change might not come. at this crossroads, i believe the key element for us will be the forthcoming elections. many of you made that point, and this is also why i have insisted on the fact that we are ready – and will continue to be ready – to accompany zimbabwe, with all our instruments and policies, through this transition and after, and especially with the hope that the new leadership will live up to the high expectations raised with the end of the mugabe era. we understand very well that this remains to be done, but the expectations are there and we can help move in the right direction. lastly, i would like to thank parliament for your continuing work to promote and defend human rights and democratisation in zimbabwe. i know that it has been long—standing, constant and consistent work, for which i thank you, and also for keeping the country on our international agenda. i am looking forward to continuing our good cooperation across the institutions in the european union to make sure that the changes are not cosmetic and that progress is really made.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the current human rights situation in turkey and (2018/2527 (rsp)) statement by the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in afrin (syria) (2018/2563 (rsp)).
madam president, 100 kilometres to the south of afrin, in the syrian province of idlib, chemical weapons were recently used once more. it happened five years after the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons was granted the nobel peace prize for overseeing the disposal of chemical weapons. debate in the un security council has once again been blocked by russia. i urge the commissioner to take a clear position on the eu’s behalf on this issue.
madam president, for one minute i will focus on the situation of the kurds in turkey. two-and-a-half years ago, a kurdish delegation was in the european parliament and i advised them to make a deal with bashar al-assad, who was then in a desperate situation and, i think, would have made any deal. but they responded by saying that they would not make any deal with a murderer. and nobody in the european parliament supported me – nobody. the kurds are now in a desperate situation: they are beaten by turks from the north and by bashar al-assad from the south, and they are in a really desperate situation. they lost their chance. i am not saying that everybody who does not listen to me will end up like the kurds now, but remember that even a nation that has good soldiers but is led by the wrong leaders will end up like the kurds. moreover, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
turkey is changing, and it's not just about the relationship between the government and the opposition, it's not just about the aftermath of the coup, when turkey was on the brink of civil war, but it's about the profound changes that may unfortunately remain. there's an official imam in hagia sophia. it goes back 80 years. it's still a museum, but its status is about to change. this is not a place where you remember the history of christianity for a thousand years and the history of later times, but as i say, history goes back 80 years. i do not know whether the european commission has reacted to this, but i would strongly encourage the publication of a communication. it's a simple signal that we care. the seminary on the island of halki is still not restored. after all, it is of fundamental importance for the functioning of the patriarchate of constantinople. it's part of our heritage. and we should also send a message that these are things that we don't want. we will not change these things by force, but turkey should know very clearly that we care about this, and that is what i ask the european commission to do.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the first sentence, i would like to emphasize that i agree with many of the comments expressing concern about the developments in turkey. at the same time, i welcome the last sentence of the high commissioner's speech in particular, which says: we want to maintain the line of dialogue, we simply want to talk to turkey because there is something to talk about. turkey is a nato member, it's our partner in nato. turkey is still on the road to eu membership. turkey is a great country, a great country. and what is very important from our point of view is that turkey, the turkish government, has a sense that greatness, strength, means responsibility. it means responsibility for peace in the region. it means responsibility for stability around and it also means responsibility for good, democratic governance of the state.
on behalf of the ecr group. the years of marxist rule in venezuela have led to the ruin of this beautiful country, have also destroyed its social fabric, have caused a humanitarian crisis in the region. the catholic church has tried to reverse the negative effects of these processes by encouraging people to take responsibility for their community. these actions have caused a wave of repression all too familiar in my country's history. i would ask the high representative to draw attention to this aspect of the human rights situation in venezuela as well.
in writing. i have welcomed with great concern the decision of the current us administration to drastically reduce funding for humanitarian aid to palestinian refugees under unrwa. as announced by president trump in 2018, the us intends to provide the agency with $65 million instead of the planned $125 million. the agency's assistance is essential for the survival of more than 5 million palestinians, including women and children, for whom unrwa provides food, drinking water, shelter, medical care and education. depriving the agency of its funds would be tantamount to depriving those persons of their right to those benefits. i call on the us administration to reconsider its decision to cut funding to unrwa, bearing in mind the fate of those whose daily survival and decent living conditions it ensures. as a last resort, i propose replacing the withdrawn funds with other programmes for the palestinians or at least spreading the planned reduction over time so that the international community can take appropriate compensatory action. at the same time, i call on the european union and the member states to coordinate efforts to fill the gap in unrwa's budget so that the continuity of humanitarian aid to palestinian refugees is maintained.
rapporteur. – mr president, today we will vote on the composition of the european parliament for the european elections of 2019. in times when democracy as a system is called into question by some, elections are the most important expression of citizens’ democratic will. the european parliament directly represents its citizens in the european union, so we as members of parliament form the direct link between citizens and the union, and it is the prerogative of the european parliament to propose its composition to the european council and to have a final say on the european council decision for each legislative period. a distribution of parliament’s seats that is fair, that follows subjective principles and that respects the eu treaties was the objective that we as co-rapporteurs set ourselves when we were entrusted with this task. we listened to the concerns of our colleagues in the house and the member states and proposed a composition that fully respects the principle of digressive proportionality, as required by the treaty. this principle ensures a fair and balanced representation of citizens by member state. observance of this principle, in combination with the distribution of some of the uk’s vacated seats, allows us to address the under-representation of some member states in the house. brexit has undoubtedly created a new situation for the union that affects the composition of our house. one of the most populous member states is leaving the union, and we believe that this should be reflected in the future distribution of seats. we have the opportunity here not only to address the problem of under-representation of some member states but also to leave a number of seats available for future enlargements and, depending on the creation of the proper legal basis, for the creation of transnational lists for european elections.by reducing the size of parliament from 751 to 705 members, we would also allow for savings, thereby freeing up resources that can be used for other purposes. i think these are the right signals to send to our citizens. brexit has also made our task more challenging due to legal uncertainties as to the precise date and terms on which the eu acquis will cease to apply to the uk. that is why we have also envisaged a fall-back option in case the uk has not formally withdrawn from the union by the time of the next elections. in conclusion, i would like to highlight that this report garnered 80% support in the committee on constitutional affairs. i hope that we will manage to achieve a large majority in today’s vote in plenary as well, in order to ensure fair representation of our citizens. i call, in this regard, on the european council to take heed of the european parliament’s position with regard to its composition. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i respect the rapporteur's wishes, but i cannot support this report as it stands. first of all, i think we should have reconsidered not allocating seats to the british. it would be an opportunity for parliament to be more efficient, more economical and i think it would be very well received by the citizens. and the second issue is the special transnational constituency. here too the ecr has a critical position. there is the argument made by mr schöpflin that the building of a political entity was actually forced. yesterday, prime minister plenkovic rightly pointed out that in such an electoral district, the election campaign would be a fiction. once again, the federalist idea, or the federalist dogmatic version, will have the opposite effect. instead of strengthening the link between meps and citizens, it will weaken it and, as a result, will tend to foster populism and euroscepticism. the members of the european parliament should be elected in the member states, they should be closer to the citizens. even if they represent all the people of the european union, it should be a place of close association.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would just like to raise a few issues. as we heard during the debate, there are very different opinions on some issues, such as transnational lists, but i would say that very few colleagues questioned the core of this report, which is the composition of our house as of 2019. i believe that the proposal which we put forward is the middle ground between all points of view on the matter, and in the light of all the special – i would say extraordinary – circumstances we are facing this time around, this is the best solution available with regard to the composition of parliament for the forthcoming term. i would also like to reiterate my request to the european council to heed parliament’s wishes in relation to its own composition, and i hope that the report will be approved by the european council in the version that will, hopefully, pass through parliament today. i would also like to make it clear to colleagues that the bigger the majority with which we adopt the composition proposal, the more likely it is that the council will not change it. i am confident that, with this report, parliament is sending a strong signal to citizens that it will remain efficient, while managing to reduce its size by 46 seats owing to the withdrawal of the uk from the union. i hope that the european council will support us in this proposal because it is fair, equitable and in full compliance with treaty principles. it is, above all, also in the interests of european citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. fellow workers! the european union needs first of all mutual trust, not radical institutional change, trust between the european level and the member states. i have the impression that mr pons' report is taking away the trust of the states and trying to transfer it elsewhere. and these are not citizens of the european union, but elected european political parties. i am very wary of this solution, also out of respect for the spirit of the european treaties. the european commission is not a purely political body under the treaties. it shall be a body with high competence, with particular responsibility for safeguarding the common interest. the president of the european commission must enjoy the confidence of the member states in the council and indeed the approval of the european parliament. let us not upset the delicate balance that existed and still exists. we must not shift our trust from the member states to european political parties. radicalism can be the enemy of the good.
madam president, let me start by emphasising that no way back can be accepted by this parliament with regard to the democratisation of the procedure for electing the president of the commission. this crystal clear message was delivered by the committee on constitutional affairs when adopting, by a large majority, the report endorsing the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, two weeks ago. the spitzenkandidaten process is, for us, a matter of democracy and transparency. it is a matter of connecting europe and its citizens, of building a bottom-up europe. the european parliament wants european citizens to have a say on the choice of the commission president and this decision can no longer be made behind closed doors. the spitzenkandidaten process, launched in 2014, reinforces the political accountability of the commission and gives a stronger role the european political parties. the political tradition of these parties has always been to stand for a european approach in dealing with the challenges the european union is facing. we have been through this process once already. the practice is already there, but we need a shared commitment on the part of the european institutions.
mr president, i rise under rule 184a to query the procedure for the vote we are about to take, which will disregard the rights of those members who wish to abstain. in the communication to members last night, your services advised that abstentions will be discounted. i strongly protest. rule 21 is not analogous to the election of vice—presidents. the vote of a member who wishes to abstain is as valid as a vote cast by any other member. it is the established practice of this parliament that abstentions are taken into account. mr president, i insist that out of respect for parliamentary democracy you take due consideration of abstentions in determining whether or not the condition of two—thirds of votes cast has been satisfied. mr czarnecki was prevented from defending himself in the plenary, which is most irregular, and now we have this discounting of abstentions, which is also irregular, to say the least. (applause)
i voted against it. firstly, because i think that parliament should have been reduced by 73 members. but secondly, i wanted to remind people that in the former communist countries, there were the people's united front. the vote was not for a party, but for the people's united front, which was the merger of the regime's parties, and that's exactly what parliament wants to do, following in the footsteps of the communists. the shadow of altiero spinelli is visible every day in brussels and it is no wonder that mrs danuta hübner - a communist child - finally wanted to introduce this method in the european parliament. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! despite some controversial provisions, i voted in favour of the resolution because the scale of the destructive practice of ritual mutilation of women, mainly but not exclusively from african countries, is too great and requires prevention by all means possible. in the eu countries, such practices are usually penalized. similarly, in poland it is a crime by law to cause serious harm to health, and that is fgm. this procedure is also intentional, and therefore has the hallmarks of a forbidden and criminal act. it is also performed under sterile conditions without anesthesia, causing, in addition to pain and suffering for women, numerous complications, mainly bacterial infections, urinary tract infections, dysuria, complications and perinatal infections, endangering not only the health but even the lives of children and women.
madam president! we have failed to settle accounts for the vote on the protection and prevention of discrimination against eu citizens belonging to minorities in eu member states. you have also received such reports and i think we should have a clarification procedure on the position taken in the vote on this matter as well.
the application was accepted and i don't quite understand why the president didn't get it. i would therefore like to know where i can make my point.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in taking part in this debate, i would like to emphasise very strongly that the polish delegation to the ecr group is strongly opposed to the harmonisation of the social policies of the member states, the creation of a single social security system or a single pension system. the countries that joined the union after 2004 are closing the gap with the most developed countries in western europe, but they still cannot afford to spend the same amount on social welfare. in order to accelerate the development of the european union as a whole, it would be much more effective than a decision on social inequalities to discuss how to eliminate cross-border inequalities, such as the elimination of inequalities in the treatment of companies from the new union countries in the markets of the old union countries, the elimination of restrictions on access to the services market in the old european union countries, or the elimination of double quality standards for products depending on the country in which they are sold.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the economic recovery and improvement in the union have been observed for some time. unemployment is falling steadily. investment is increasing. unfortunately, the benefits of this situation are not evenly distributed among the citizens of the european union. we are witnessing persistent or even growing inequalities. i believe that for economic growth to be inclusive and to involve all of society, we must first of all ensure a well-functioning labour market. reducing unemployment is not enough. the work must be of high quality. ensure stability and security for workers and adequate remuneration. the fight against abuse, namely undeclared work in particular, but also forced parttime work, must be fought vigorously. workers must also be able to combine family and work life in order to remain active while caring for children or dependants. we must also not forget the most vulnerable members of our society: the disabled, the chronically ill and the elderly. we need to provide those who are willing to work with the right support and opportunities, and those who are not, with decent conditions for active ageing and participation in society. of course, to maintain the competitiveness of the economy and the good economy, we must maintain the right balance and also support entrepreneurs by ensuring their access to finance and new technologies.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner! inequality is rising in europe, but not between countries. inequality between countries is decreasing, and it's only within countries that it's constantly increasing. the top 10% of households in europe earn 30% of all family income and own 50% of all family assets. and these inequalities are increasing, and with them, health, social and economic problems, because inequalities are not conducive to economic growth. and the clear message from this data is that if we want to reduce poverty, we should reduce inequality. research also shows that the most powerful tools for reducing inequality are education and increasing the employment of women. i am glad that commissioner thyssen is here with us, because i believe that this package of role-matching, especially the non-legislative part on pre-schools, will have a positive impact on the integration of women into the labour market. stable forms of employment are also important in reducing inequalities, but above all the increase in the participation of workers in the economy, for example by owning shares in companies, by having workers' representatives on management boards, but also by social cooperatives or cooperatives. but the most important thing - and this is the last sentence - is that we avoid this kind of trap of going in the direction of developing a welfare state. i believe that we need to move towards subjectivity, towards greater citizen participation and greater social participation, because only by focusing on subjectivity will we be able to remain creative and competitive in the global marketplace.
in writing. i think that none of us has any doubt that the growing economic and social inequalities in the european union must be tackled. of course, there will always be differences in income and wealth between different social groups. this is a natural consequence of a market economy. but there are things that are making this worse, and we must stop this process. there are, of course, differing views in the public debate on how to combat excessive economic and social stratification. i believe that there are two things that are particularly dangerous and that need to be addressed. the first consequence of inequality is the 'transfer' of poverty and exclusion from one generation to the next. there is a group of young people who do not believe in a better tomorrow for themselves and their children. it's a vicious circle that's hard to break. another very important consequence is the increase in support for populist movements and the growing fear of foreigners". how do we fight these things? of course, a multi-action strategy is needed. but i think the basic answer is education. if we are to halt this negative trend, we must ensure equal access to quality education for all eu citizens. that's the basic condition.
author. – madam president, since this morning, a lot has been said in this house on elections as the main instrument of democratic participation. democratic participation is the raison d’être for any parliament. this european parliament was for the first time elected based on direct universal suffrage in 1979. the legal basis was provided by the electoral act of 1976. it was a european parliament of 410 directly-elected representatives. it was a european parliament for a european union of 9 member states. today we live in a completely different world. the european union comprises 28 member states. the parliament is composed of 751 members, its role as co-legislator has skyrocketed, and still the rules governing the conduct of european elections are those established 42 years ago. it is our fundamental duty as the european parliament to enable participatory democracy to facilitate the building of a bottom-up europe and connect citizens with europe. connecting europe with citizens starts with the european elections, and we need to update the electoral act of 1976. this is what we did in november 2015, by adopting and transmitting to the council a proposal for amendment of the ʼ76 electoral act. according to the treaty – article 223 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union – it is not only the duty but also the right of the european parliament to draw up a proposal to lay down the provisions on its electoral law. our utmost goal is to enhance the democratic dimension of the european elections, to reinforce union citizenship, to improve the functioning of the parliament and the governance of the european union, to make the work of the parliament more legitimate and efficient, to enhance effectiveness of the election’s conduct, and to provide for more electoral equality of union citizens. more than two years have passed, six council presidencies have worked, the next european elections of 2019 are around the corner. so here is our question: dear council, dear commission, we would like to know what is the intention of the two other institutions, especially of the council, regarding the reform of the eu electoral law?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. radicalism is the enemy of the good. i, like mr rangel, am glad that we have avoided radicalisation and the adoption of a transnational constituency because it is much better for the european parliament to be elected by the member states from the point of view of its legitimacy and this should also be avoided in the course of the work on electoral law. there are a number of good proposals in the recommendations of mrs hübner and mr leinen, including those concerning the transparency of the electoral process, the timetable. but there are proposals that the ecr cannot agree to. the main issue is the centralisation of elections, the obligation to place the logo of membership at european level in elections to the european parliament. it stifles new political initiatives. we think it should be a right, not a duty. i am glad that the minister has spoken, because it allows us to define the possible areas of agreement. yes, there is a chance to pass a new law, but one that is consistent with the constitutional traditions of the member states and that ensures political freedom.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the minister for the council and to the other colleagues. i personally think that the change in the voting law is definitely necessary, but we should say the main philosophy of the need for change. if i look at how the elections to the european parliament are conducted in the czech republic or other visegrad states, the main problem is very low voter turnout. in the czech republic, it was 18%, and so if we are going to make any changes, we should try to increase the interest of citizens in the european elections, to increase the legitimacy of the elections in the eyes of the individual citizens of these countries. i am therefore personally pleased that parliament has made it clear today that we will not be promoting transnational constituencies at this stage. this idea of transnational circuits in the future, many years from now, could be a good thing. but when you have a european union of 28 countries, citizens want to be able to identify with their specific politician, with a specific mep who represents them and their interests on the floor of the european parliament. and that's why it's good that we're not dealing with these kinds of ideological concepts right now. fifty years from now, maybe, but not right now. i believe that at this moment, given the proximity of the elections, it is still possible to apply some of the positive points of the material produced by the european parliament, to remove some of the technical problems, such as the fact that some citizens of the european union who have dual citizenship, for example, vote twice. these are definitely specific things that we could work out in time. but i think a fundamental change in the voting law, a fundamental electoral reform, is not going to happen at this point. so please, in the council debates, let us see that we should increase the interest of the citizens in the european parliament, in the european elections, and not by some utopian considerations take it away from the people.
mr president, minister, i have to go. we have heard the statements by mrs hübner and mr jo leinen, which are essentially a request: listen, over two years ago you as the council received our proposal, our position. and what did we hear from the minister? that the council wants the citizens to be interested in the elections, that the elections are transparent, that as many people as possible go to the polls. but tell me what the method is. fifth presidency, maybe sixth, even different countries, new, less new, and it's always the same answer. we're still working on it. technical factors. we want to stay in touch. we'll be in touch with you. we'll keep you posted. what's the next step? i'm not doing anything. at this point, even i would not like to bring up any particular aspects, but i would like to state the following: the council is not interested, independently of the presidency, in the electoral act, the most important thing, that people know who they are electing, why, for what, what he is to do here. the council just doesn't care. i'll confess to you sincerely, mrs panayotova. i don't believe anything is going to change.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in recent years, the european institutions have been particularly prone to intervene in the internal affairs of member states, even when such interference is not justified by treaty provisions. once again, the commission must be reminded that the european union is made up of sovereign, democratic states which have the right to shape their system, including in the area of the judiciary, in accordance with the expectations of their citizens. if some changes do not gain enough public support or have negative effects, then the public in democratic elections will be able to evaluate their authors accordingly. and it is really pathetic to see commissioner jourová as a professor lecturing the democratically elected government of romania. the commission should not claim the right to make such an assessment, as its mandate is not democratic. mr weidenholzer regrets very much that the romanian minister of justice cannot be here to take part in this debate. well, ladies and gentlemen, we were just told the minister was here. all you have to do is invite him. i would ask for restraint in making radical assessments of legislation which has not yet been finalised. and this is not just about romania, it's about my country.
mr president, democracy requires transparency, separation of powers, an independent judiciary system and justice, which should never be bent to serve short-term political tactics or the vested interests of individual politicians. this is the only way to build public trust and encourage citizens’ participation: the fundament of democracy. i see thousands of romanian people protesting in the streets. i see romanian citizens full of concern about their country and their justice system. i know that there is no possibility to create trust where corruption is all around. i see some efforts made by the government to strengthen the independence of the judiciary system. it is not sufficient. i continue to see the government watering down anti-corruption laws in romania and playing an unfair game with society and with all of us – the european family, a family which is based on the rule of law, fundamental values and politics free of corruption. romanian citizens, please, be brave, be vigilant: don’t give up. romanian politicians: be open to your society, be honest. only this attitude can bring real political profits – true profits, not money. european commission: be strict and, at the same time, open to dialogue. a european union without values will lose its moral, political and real power. (the speaker declined to answer a blue-card question from claudia ţapardel)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the cor supports the general direction of the changes contained in the reports. addressing the causes of immigration is one of the key elements of the european union's current strategy. the extension of the eib's lending mandate to third countries and the increase in the level of the european union guarantee to eur 32.3 billion are essential elements to achieve this objective. however, it is incomprehensible that this scope should be transferred from the eib to the commission as proposed. after analysing the costs and benefits of this solution, i personally believe that this possible change should not take place before 2021. i would also point out that, as regards the changes to the external mandate of the eib and the raising of the ceilings, the needs of the eastern dimension should be taken into account in particular, which would strategically accelerate the process of economic integration and political partnership between the european union and these countries, and i am thinking in particular of belarus and ukraine.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european investment bank lends huge sums of money to exotic countries where nothing can be checked. the programmes for which the bank lends have beautiful names: 'combating unemployment', 'climate change', 'women's empowerment'. some of the money is malfunctioning and the loans are not being repaid, but the european union is reimbursing the bank for these losses. to cover it up, the european union pays the bank tens of billions of euros a year in bribes, calling the account a guarantee fund. the bank covers its losses from this fund. it's a wonderful thing to work in a bank like this. today the european commission has admitted that it too has its people. they have to make a living, too, and she wants to manage the fund herself. that's a couple dozen lucrative salaries closest to these non-repayable loans. what is the european parliament's reaction? i don't know. the only thing the european parliament has proposed is to add a few clichés to the content, such as: 'the highest standards of transparency and democratic accountability must be maintained'; 'poverty, inequality, unemployment, climate change must be eliminated'. whoa! and i propose that we demand that this fund, this money-making machine, be shut down.
president of the european investment bank. – mr president, i thank you very much for this debate and i thank you for the support that the european parliament has always given to the european investment bank, the eu bank. i will have to come back to many of you because i cannot respond to each and every question right now because of time limitations. let me concentrate on just a very few points. number one: the migration crisis has opened the eyes, hearts and minds of many people in europe with regard to development policies. i think many had closed their eyes vis-à-vis the real problems in developing countries. now we need to address the root causes of that migration, which finally opens up the possibility to really talk about migration. there is a paradigm change going on in development policy: we are moving from donor-recipient thinking to partnership thinking and development. that’s huge progress and it goes hand in hand with the second big paradigm change in budget policies. it was a hugely courageous move by president juncker to go in the direction of reserving budgetary funds – very limited ones, by the way – eur 60 billion – from subsidies and grants to guarantees and loans. this is a paradigm change in the use of the budget. ms georgieva would have said ‘better spending’, and that’s exactly what we need in the field of development, too, because if we want to achieve the sustainable development and climate goals, we will need to crowd-in the private sector. we need to broaden the financial base, and the crowding-in institution of the european union is the eu bank, the eib. second remark – the juncker plan: one day we will write the history of the european union in this decade, and i’m pretty sure that the juncker plan will be one of the outstanding events of this decade when it comes to the history of the european union and the further development of our instruments. there have been words about the loss of money and lack of control. ladies and gentlemen, we are the leanest bank among the multilateral banks in general and also among commercial banks. with 3 500 people, we produce a volume of roughly eur 80 billion per year. go to the world bank, they do roughly half of what we’re doing with 18 000 people, and that is the reason why we are not in each and every place in the world with boots on the ground, that’s why we need the partnership of other institutions when we are in developing countries, too. we only have 100 people out of 3 500 not residing in luxembourg. finally, the loss of assets. ladies and gentlemen, we have never lost more than 0.4% of non-performing loans. this is the lowest figure you’ll find for any big bank, at least in europe, probably in the world. i don’t comment on the world of the criminal organisation, i don’t chair any criminal organisation, and i’m very proud to chair a very decent institution which delivers success. we are the eu bank, we are the only institution that’s owned and controlled only by the eu and the eu member states, and that means the objectives are set by the treaty and by the european council in connection with parliament and the council and the commission. that means we are bound to the values of the european union, whether that’s on human rights, the social dimension, the environmental dimension, on procurement law, whatsoever, and this means that you can expect us to deliver on this promise of sticking to the values of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for a mostly very constructive, forward-looking discussion. thank you once more for an excellent job that parliament has done with the other institution, the european investment bank (eib). i can be very brief. with this tool we can increase investments in order to achieve our three goals: first, the sustainable development goals; second, climate change; and third: to strengthen long-term economic resilience. the beauty of this tool is that it helps to crowd-in private resources in order to address all these or answer all these challenges. that is why we have an eu bank. and thanks to the eib’s activity we can reach these goals faster and to a larger extent than just providing grant financing for the same purposes. i once more want to thank all those who participated in this discussion and their work in finalising the file.
in writing. foreign policy is the eu's instrument for pursuing its interests and objectives. however, the strength of the eu's external policy lies not in the use of military means but in the use of other instruments. one of the most effective of these instruments is the provision of support on the ground to countries experiencing problems related to war, violent conflict or large-scale migration. over the past two years, this policy has proven its effectiveness, reflected in a large reduction in the uncontrolled wave of migration into eu countries. supporting countries like jordan and lebanon and the western balkans on the ground creates opportunities for security and stability. the european investment bank and its guarantees for local entrepreneurs play a key role in supporting investment in these countries. it is worth recalling that the eu expects to spend €32.3 billion on external action between 2014 and 2020. i am therefore convinced that i support the proposed regulation, as it is in the eu's interest to promote stability in the countries bordering the european union, both to the south and to the east.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the rapporteur has called the european investment bank the financial arm of the european union and it is indeed difficult to disagree with the eib's exceptional role in the process of stimulating investment, especially in the sme sector. we particularly appreciate the importance of the european fund for strategic investments. it is this instrument, and not - in my view - the reckless - printing of money by the ecb, that is already having a tangible effect. we also agree with the rapporteur's basic diagnosis, which points to the persistence of regional disparities in access to eib financial instruments. i therefore once again call for more technical assistance and advisory support for smes in the countries of the so-called 'new european union'. the ecr group voted in favour of the draft report.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the european investment bank has significantly improved the investment conditions for smes in european markets. through instruments such as the european investment fund and the european fund for strategic investments, the eib can become a true pillar of cohesion policy, eliminating economic and social disparities between european regions. we also agree with the rapporteur that the eib should play a key role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. we particularly appreciate the importance of the connecting europe facility, which is partly financing the sections of the via carpatia megaproject. we also share the view that the eib can play an active role in addressing the root causes of migration and take action in countries particularly affected by the migration crisis, including by stepping up humanitarian action. the polish delegation to the ecr group, sharing the majority of the rapporteur's conclusions, will vote in favour of the rapporteur's report.
mr. chairman, please! let's get our debate back to normal after this moment of difference. in other words, we have a good report on the financial performance of a good, or perhaps even a very good bank. this is the first essential, lasting element. secondly, all the priorities we have set ourselves here, the european investment bank has undertaken, has implemented and has generally done so without fail and with success. thirdly, we have new elements, such as new financial instruments and the strategic investment fund, which is important for the region i come from, for poland and for the neighbouring countries. we should be allocating resources disproportionately to this part to increase this level of coherence. i only have six seconds left, and i'd like to share some good news. i was present ten days ago when president hoyer in warsaw received a well-deserved honorary award from the businessmen's association. congratulations, mr. president, and i'm happy to share this with everyone here.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. without an active society, without civic spirit, without social responsibility, there is no democracy. especially in an age where it's so easy to manufacture the will of the masses in the media, where virtual reality is so easily replacing active, authentically formed, distant public opinion. and we must do everything we can to protect our democracies, to protect our freedom from the rule of money. we know this very well in central europe. i am surprised that a colleague from a country close to us does not understand that the main task of our societies today is to rebuild an active society after a time when communism not only restricted political freedom but also discouraged people from any activity. indeed, today, equality of citizens is being threatened by money, and it is good that governments in central europe are taking action to ensure that organizations working in the public sphere are truly equal.
the question asked by raising the blue card. making allegations is easy, documenting them is a little harder. that's why i'd like to see this documentation. what did you mean by specifically mentioning the restrictions on the activities of ngos in poland and hungary?
democracy is not just the act of voting, it's more than that. it's the conscience of the citizens and the rules that protect their rights. populism in today's world, in the name of election results, is undermining the foundations of democracy and is de facto building a new authoritarianism, backed by a voting majority that blindly follows the leaders. there is no democracy today without civil society. in many countries, parties don't serve the state so much as they usurp it. this undermines the democratic nature of the state and limits the access of civil society organisations to the means to develop a vibrant democracy. and the daily practice of democracy is crucial to its sustainability. it gives it vitality. citizens' participation in debates, consultations, protests and decision-making processes is essential everywhere: in small towns and villages, in cities and regions. civil society is a key actor in a vibrant democracy. but it needs freedom to function. the independence of the activity must be guaranteed by the availability of financial resources, unrestricted by governments, as seen in the recent changes in the law in hungary and this threatens poland. we must therefore find a way for local civil society organisations to support the european approach. we need a european value added instrument. a separate line in the european budget is needed for such purposes. this decision requires the cooperation of parliament, the commission and the council to include these objectives and actions in the new multiannual financial framework.
in writing. – regarding the fact that independent and well-functioning civil society is a fundament of the country’s democracy, stability and prosperity and one of the most important actors in overseeing the situation of human rights, social justice and citizens participation, a spread of limitations and closing down of civil society in developing democracies across the world is a deeply worrying phenomenon. in order to fight this negative trend, the representatives of the eu institutions and member states should give a strong signal and support the threaten human rights defenders and ngos, by holding meetings, publically expressing support to individual cases or by providing consultations and guidance in their activities. at the same time the eu actors should be more vocal in defending the international legal instruments promoting democracy and human rights on the level of international organisations, such as united nations, african union and others. furthermore, i believe a clearer structure should be given to the framework of cooperation with civil societies in problematic regions consisting of regular in-depth consultations, establishing an alert system notifying about introducing restrictive pieces of legislation and continuously monitoring potential threats to ngos and human rights defenders.
the author. women human rights defenders, especially those working in remote, poorer, developing parts of the world, face many obstacles in their work. their standing and legitimacy to take action in the field of human rights is questioned. their jobs, their positions, their lives are all being diminished. they are not only verbally attacked but also physically attacked. even their family members and children are attacked. their activities are seen as targeting the family and religion. they're sometimes accused of spying for the west. despite their official positions, human rights defenders face a lack of trust, including from state authorities. they can't always count on police protection, state protection. on the contrary, because their activities are sometimes perceived as anti-systemic and therefore hostile to the state, even from this side an attack can come. we need to recognize the difficult role of human rights defenders and understand the scale and nature of the difficulties they face in their quest for human rights, including women's rights, and understand that some of these difficulties are due to the fact that they are women. support for human rights defenders has long been a component, one of the priorities, of the european union's external policy. this is particularly necessary today, when - as we have seen in many reports and just now in the debate - the space in which civil society can operate, the space of freedom and pluralism, of values and religions, is shrinking. i would like to ask what mechanisms and practices the european commission uses to support human rights defenders and what role the european union delegations play in this? what is the commission doing to empower women human rights defenders and to increase the value and recognition of their positions? finally, do these activities aimed at supporting women human rights defenders take into account the local cultural context?
in writing. in europe, we take human rights for granted. we enjoy a wide range of legally guaranteed freedoms, including for women (by the way, i should point out that poland, which is so often criticized here, also for allegedly violating women's rights, was ranked the sixth safest country for women in the world in the latest new world wealth survey). sadly, in many places women are far worse off, denied their rights and treated as second-class citizens. the european parliament today strongly condemned one of the manifestations of this approach, namely female genital mutilation. but even in countries where women are in a bad situation, there are always brave advocates for women's rights, and they are often women themselves. their plight is not enviable they face harmful stereotypes, misunderstanding from the authorities and large sections of the population, and are often directly threatened, beaten and humiliated. they and their families are often in physical danger, including danger to their lives. it is good that the european union is working to make its diplomacy more sensitive to the needs of these brave women who need our support. i strongly support this approach and ask the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to ensure that all eu delegations follow this approach wherever they operate.
madam president! i'm glad we had this discussion, because 65 years ago, when the communists introduced this time, i was explaining to my father that it was idiotic. and finally, there was a debate in the european parliament. of course, the member states can handle this. all you have to do is, as you go about your summer, make sure that the children go to school at nine instead of eight, and that we start work at nine instead of eight. and time will be changed and nothing will change. but i'm asking you, it's not about the biological clock, it's about how twice a year we disrupt people's time, we make a monstrous mess of transportation, everywhere, for who knows what the hell. because, again, it doesn't change anything. and anyway, i think that this time change is the same thing that the french revolutionaries introduced, which is a special revolutionary calendar. the soviets were turning the rivers so they flowed the other way. it's a manifestation of human pride, an attempt to violate natural relationships and replace them with artificial, man-made ones, and i'm against it. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! there are few subjects like the time change obligation that arouse similar resentment in almost all member states. technology and our way of life are changing so rapidly that this practice, which seemed justified at the beginning of the 20th century, is now causing many inconveniences and even serious health problems. given that the time change obligation has its origin in community law, action by the european institutions is also needed to abandon it. of course, before we make the final decision about whether to abandon the clock change and which time is better, winter or summer, we need a solid analysis of all the arguments and costs. the european commission should look closely at this issue and, if socially and economically justified, review and amend the summertime arrangements directive.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. you have given us the following choice: first, it must be uniform throughout the european union. i'll take that. second, it can be: we either maintain the status quo, or we change it. and if we change, i want us to limit ourselves to just talking about winter time. imagine summer time, eight o'clock in the morning in brussels. it's dark, it's almost midnight. it's different in warsaw or tallinn. in brussels, however, it is a very different time. another thing: there were arguments that didn't necessarily make that much sense. fellas, no offense, but if you're referring to what stalin did and how the flies behave, how it affects the cows, i'd leave that out of the equation. in transportation, winter time has the advantage that the incidence of accidents is much lower if you start your journey later. and there was a bit of a confusing element. i don't really understand him. a friend was showing the clock. saying it was 9:15, he showed 8:15. no, i'm not going. it would have been 10:15. that too must be understood. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. vice president hautalo! i'm so eager to get to know you, and of course, you can never know too much. my intention was to bring our discussion back to the very serious issue of unity throughout the european union. it's about pointing out that some of the historical arguments are way behind us, and considering that the winter time - which i wanted to bring - as we understand it now, is the right one. and finally, in seven weeks, we're going back to daylight saving time, so i don't think our debate here, right now, is going to be very productive.
madam president! i too believe that this debate and exchange of views is extremely important, because this is a matter of great importance to the citizens of the european union. i don't want to go through all the arguments for stopping time, because in this debate, all the arguments for stopping time have already been dropped. we talked about health issues, economics. almost every speaker gave a number of arguments. we're almost all in agreement on this, over and above the political divide, which is not very common in this house. finally, and this is very important, the citizens of the european union want the time change to be abolished. the various initiatives that are being taken in many european union countries on this subject have also been mentioned. so the question is, what are we waiting for? let's stop this time.
madam president! and since public opinion polls show that in many societies there is growing support for ending this two-time-a-year change, we should address this issue. because it's not about what time it is in a country, whether it's summer or winter - that's a decision that the member state has to make. what it's about is that we stop the double time shift. there are many initiatives on this issue, including at parliamentary level: in finland, in poland. in poland, this debate was finally stopped because it required a change in the directive. so, if this kind of work is going on even at the parliamentary level, it shows that there is a lot of public support for this cause. there are many arguments, economic arguments, health arguments. but i think that since this kind of opinion is becoming more and more common in the societies of the member states of the european union, we should not disregard this problem.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. ladies and gentlemen! the repression of memorial activists by the regime of vladimir putin is an attempt to silence the organization, which has acted as the conscience of the russian elites since the collapse of the ussr. it was thanks to the commitment of memorial and the great courage of many of its members that the scale of the crimes of the soviet communists was revealed to the public. the crimes were committed not only by the people who were enslaved by soviet russia, but also by the russians themselves, who refused to live in a huge camp run from moscow. the russian authorities directly or through provocation persecute the organization, which not only studies the past, but conducts educational activities, refuting the lies of soviet propaganda. the case of ojub titiyev is one of the latest examples of repression against human rights organizations in russia. as in other cases, we must be firmly opposed to such activities.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. haiti is the poorest country in the western hemisphere and one of the poorest in the world. up to 60% of the population live below the poverty line. unfortunately, it's also the eighth-largest slave-holding country in the world. restavek - because that's what they call enslaved children - are born into poor rural families and are given to wealthy families with the hope of a better future. unfortunately, that's not the case. this future is not better for them. in fact, they are forced to do hard labor. they are exploited, malnourished and rarely educated. the statistics are alarming: one in 15 children in haiti is a survivors, 60% of whom are girls. it is unthinkable that such practices should be allowed to take place in the 21st century, especially when they affect the most vulnerable children. the resolution condemns the haitian government's failure to protect those most in need and calls for urgent legislation to end this shameful practice. we need to be the advocates for these kids and stand up for them. i ask you to support this resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. modern slavery has many faces. we were here the other day discussing the situation of the haratins in mauritania. today, the focus is on haiti's leftovers - children who come from poor rural families and are given away, often sold to wealthier families, where they work overtime, are victims of violence, have no chance of getting a basic education. nearly one in five haitian children between the ages of six and 11 are out of school. the phenomenon has complex socio-economic underpinnings, and the current difficult political situation and the lack of action to change key legislation gives rise to violations of human rights and children's rights. the lack of a birth registration system also puts children at risk of being trafficked. the haitian authorities must take measures to address child slavery, in particular through the reform of the penal code. it is also essential to implement a system of registration of all newborns and to regulate the situation of unregistered children, as well as to provide adequate support to victims of domestic slavery.
member of the commission. – mr president, today’s debate is a good opportunity to recall the importance of the trans-adriatic pipeline as a key infrastructure project for european union energy security and the internal energy market, and how it fits into the broader european union picture. let me start with a few words to put this project into its full context. gas remains today a significant source of energy in the european union, accounting for 22% of the union energy mix. at the same time, europe is increasingly dependent on imports of gas. the union currently imports 70% of the gas it consumes; and, in 2016, 42% of these imports came from a single supplier. our domestic production is declining at a faster pace than our gas demand, thus our import dependency for gas is expected to further increase, to more than 83% by 2040. for that reason, the european union has been pursuing a study of diversification of gas supply sources and routes. this diversification strategy has three key dimensions: first, the opening of the southern gas corridor to bring gas from the caspian region and the middle east directly to europe; second, benefitting from the developing global liquefied natural gas (lng) market; and, third, developing a liquid-gas hub in the mediterranean region. i want to thank the european parliament in this context for the support it has lent the commission in our efforts to make gas supplies for our member states more diversified and more secure, notably by supporting our lng strategy and helping us achieve an ambitious compromise on the security of gas supply regulation. in this context, the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap) is a key element of this strategy to promote diversified supply and competitive markets. it will provide a key link to the southern gas corridor and the resources of the caspian region for italy and south-east europe. for italy, this additional supply source is particularly important, given that the sale of gas in its energy mix, at 35%, and its substantial dependence – 90% – are both above the eu average. i would also remind you that italy was the member state that lost the most, in terms of gdp growth, from the gas cut-offs we saw in 2006 and 2009. tap will also be crucial in terms of lessening dependence on a single supplier in south-east europe, creating a gas hub in the region and integrating this market with the rest of the european union. we expect the tap project to improve europe’s energy security and lead to a more competitive market. this will ultimately benefit consumers, who will pay lower prices. let me now turn to the question raised about the potential environmental impact. a high level of environmental protection is, of course, of the highest priority for the commission. first, i note that the necessary environmental and social impact assessments have been carried out for this project, and these included a list of conditions to be fulfilled before the construction phase, during the construction phase and in the operational phase itself. these assessments also include an appropriate impact assessment as defined by the european union’s habitats directive, to exclude significant effects from the project. and i would point out that the pipeline does not fall into the offshore area protected by the natura 2000 network. lastly, let me confirm to you that the commission is in contact with the authorities to ensure that the project is carried out in line with the necessary standards and that all necessary measures will be taken to protect nature in the region. i look forward to a good exchange about this project.
on behalf of the ecr group. the trans adriatic pipeline, as the final leg of the so-called southern gas corridor, plays a role in the political and business plans of western europe, especially germany and russia. however, the environmental aspect is no less important, which is raised by the italian citizens, because the pipeline is to pass through an area that is also seismically active. tectonically, the alpine folding region of abruzzo, sicily, is considered by environmentalists to be the most threatened. earthquakes can cause a pipeline to break, beyond the potential energy-terrorism threat. in the case of such an investment, the public consultation provided for in the aarhus convention should be carried out and disputes between the local community and the authorities responsible for the investment should be resolved using the tools provided for in the convention. i personally regret that the citizens of the baltic countries did not show such social activism, allowing the nord stream gas pipeline to be carried out on the seabed with the enormous risk of ecological disaster in the baltic sea, which could be caused by the deposition of chemical weapons on the seabed, sunk after the world wars in shipwrecks and containers. perhaps the baltic is very sensitive to pollution because of the limited exchange of water with the north sea, where the circulation through the narrow danish straits is the reason that the total exchange of baltic waters to oceanic waters takes 25 to 35 years. all the foreign substances brought into the baltic sea remain in it for many years, creating a huge ecological threat, violating the seabed, the rocks that are the habitat for living organisms.
in writing. it is good that parliament has also accepted my proposal, supported by the ecr, to hold this debate. europe cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in eastern ghouta. but above all, it cannot stand idly by and watch the war crimes being committed in syria. for seven years, bashar al-assad has been murdering defenseless civilians with every weapon available, pursuing a policy of ethnic cleansing and genocide against communities that have dared to stand up to the regime's bloody practices. any violation of un security council resolution 2401 of 2018 must be met with a strong western response. i'm afraid i don't believe the assurances of support for the resolution by assad's russian and iranian allies. the three days of needlessly prolonged negotiations over the obvious content of the resolution, while at the same time bombs kept falling on civilians, including women and children, clearly show the true intentions of damascus, moscow and tehran. the west, hiding behind hypocritical naivety and good intentions, cannot once again brand actions. the human costs of such a policy are too great.
mr president, colleagues at the beginning of this month we voted, by a large majority, on the new composition of the european parliament for the european elections of 2019. we reduced the size of the house from 751 to 705 seats and proposed a composition that is fair, based on objective principles, respects the eu’s treaty and adheres to the principle of digressive proportionality. i appreciate that during the informal european council meeting, our proposal was broadly supported. let me however underline the fact that, after a formal decision is taken by the european council, it will have to come back to the european parliament so that we can have a final vote as part of the consent procedure. this should happen by summer this year. on the issue of the spitzenkandidaten, i wish to reiterate that this process, endorsed again by a large majority of this chamber three weeks ago, is a matter of principle and of interinstitutional balance and cooperation for us. we see this process as a reinforcement of the democratic accountability of the european institutions and as an enhancement of the role of the european political parties. so i trust that the european council will pursue this democratic advance with a view to helping citizens develop the feeling of ownership of europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. before the european council, the president asked three questions in his letter, concerning firstly the priorities, secondly the size of the budget and thirdly the timetable. we have received a communication from the european council, and we are wondering whether this is good or bad news for parliament. as regards the content, we in the committee on budgets of the european parliament have tried to answer these questions, also assuming that they will be raised later. in our position, which we adopted the day before the european council, we made clear how we wanted to approach the new priorities, and we agree with the european council on this point. secondly, we have talked about the size of the budget, and the response of the european council is not yet clear, which is good news, because it means that a proposal is not being rejected today. as for the calendar, there is no clear answer today either, which we also consider to be a positive sign rather than a negative one. in other words, the european council has left the door open and a serious debate with the european parliament is about to begin.
in writing. the common agricultural policy was one of the topics discussed at the last european council in the context of the future eu multiannual budget. the cap accounts for 37% of the eu budget, although in the past it has been twice that. the direct payments financed by the cap represent as much as 50% of farmers' incomes, compared with only half of the incomes of other occupational groups. low farmer incomes are the reason for the lack of young farmers. without the cap, farmers' financial situation would be disastrous. remember that the cap benefits not only farmers but all consumers, because it makes food cheaper and increases the purchase of means of production, which also improves the situation of the machinery and chemical industries and trade. the cap has ensured food security through universal access to food of adequate quality at affordable prices. farmers provide society with a range of public goods in the areas of environment, landscape design and landscape management for which they are not paid. this situation requires that the cap funding be maintained at the same level.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the resolution is ridiculous, as is all this harassment of poland for the last two years. the problem is that in reality a huge part of the country has no idea what is happening in poland, what is going on, what are these reforms and why are they being carried out. president timmermans has been dealing with poland for a long time, and yet the lack of information is fundamental here. i'm going to try to put this in context, without getting into controversy, because i've been in controversy before. ladies and gentlemen! when communism fell, and a new justice system was being built in poland, it was decided that it would be best if the legal corporations took control of that justice system. and they were given power that they had no other european country had. they just didn't have the power they had in poland. it was so strange that a good number of lawyers behaved badly in the communist system and should have been removed. that's not what happened. the environment will clean itself, as one of the lawyers of that time said, and he was a very respected lawyer, but the environment didn't clean itself. so far, the supreme court has had judges who have oppressed the democratic opposition in communist times. this decision to give law firms so much power was a terrible naiveté on the part of the legislators of the day, of all of us. we used to imagine that these law firms were some kind of walking justice, that they were the embodiment of it, that they were this woman with her eyes covered and holding a balance, pure legal reason. well, of course that turned out to be untrue. the communists were not removed, their successors came and so on and so forth, this whole system of clientelism: whoever disagreed was marginalized, whoever exposed themselves to the environment was finished. one such obvious example was that the presidents of the courts had absolute power to appoint the judges, which often - not always, of course, but very often, too often - meant that before the trial began, it was known how it would end. we had the largest number of judges and the longest trial history. poland was one of the countries with the highest number of cases lost before the european courts. and all of this was because of the way the judges functioned. it's no wonder that these corporations, when they feel their power, they become proud. everyone, when they have such unlimited power, becomes proud. they started to behave like party actors, not hiding their party sympathies or antipathies, which was also reflected in the way they handled cases. the principle of judicial independence, which is: i only obey the law, has been changed in practice into a principle: i can do what i want, and if someone does not like it, sorry for the expression, he can fall on the tree. there have been cases of judges calling on the phone, and the most sensational case was a journalistic provocation: a journalist called one of the judges and claimed to be an associate of the then prime minister of poland, donald tusk, which earned him various promises from the new judge. or another case: the former president of the constitutional court issued a ruling in a composition that no law, constitution or any law, past or present, provides for it was simply a social gathering of the president's friends and then he was surprised that the government did not publish the ruling. it's a scandal. he shouted. i'm allowed to do anything. well, ladies and gentlemen, these are pathologies, and we cannot tolerate them. the culmination of this marriage of legal corporations and political parties was the leap to the constitutional tribunal, which was to lead to the practical political control of the tribunal for many years to come. the leap made by the previous government - absolutely monstrous from the point of view of the rule of law and the law - has not provoked any reaction in this house or in the european commission. and the fact that we prevented that jump has caused a moral outrage in most of the country that borders on hysteria. i've said many times that's why you weren't upset, that they were colleagues, political parties. the double standard is really the only rule that's consistently followed here. ladies and gentlemen! what is happening in poland is a reform of the justice system, at least 25 years late, a reform of a system that has been working badly from the beginning because it was badly thought out. so, whoever says that there was a rule of law in poland, and only later, when the power changed, the situation got worse, he is not telling the truth. it was a disaster, and now there is an attempt to change that, and none of the solutions are original, each of them is to some extent present in some european country. so it is no surprise, ladies and gentlemen, that when polish citizens listen to debates on poland here in this house, when they hear the statements of my distinguished colleagues in the front row, the commission representatives, they are stunned. what you say has nothing to do with the reality of the poles. you're talking about some poland that doesn't exist, you're talking about some government that doesn't exist. you are treated as defenders of the old order, defenders of the ancien régime, of which everyone is sick and tired. and you'll have to take that into account. this ancien regime is not coming back because it's been compromised, so it's not worth defending because it's indefensible. (applause from his group)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i will not praise or blame the polish government, because it is really entitled to both. i would like to raise the issue of freedom today, which a group of officials want to take away from poland, other countries and most of the mps here. these officials felt that because they were so highly paid, they were entitled to rule over those who had appointed them. if you, the elected representatives of the people, allow these officials to win in the internal affairs of poland, they will soon subordinate themselves and your countries. instead of ruling on behalf of the nations, you will be servants of the european commission. you will serve a group of officials whose egos have grown so much since they were appointed commissioners that they have considered themselves the rulers of nations and countries. some of the heads of parliament's groups are connected to these officials and will vote as they have agreed with them, but most meps are not connected. don't let your freedom and the freedom of your country be bought by blackmailing you for re-election or party loyalty.
mr. chairman, please! mr. franciszek timmermans is absolutely right about the threat to the rule of law in poland, which is why i am leaving the european parliament tomorrow and returning to poland to fight the impending pis dictatorship. but you're in the way. you don't know the situation in poland. every time you press the pis government, it increases its popularity. soon, thanks to you, mr. timmermans, the pis will have a constitutional majority. thank you, lord. you wanted democracy in poland. if there was an empire in germany, adolf hitler would only be at the imperial palace once a year for a watercolour contest. it's democracy that makes people like hitler, obama, trump come to power. it's all thanks to you, mr. timmermans. that's why we have to fight it. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
in writing. we are debating the rule of law in poland again in this room only because several polish mps have not been able to accept their post-election defeat for three years, and frankly speaking, none of you have bothered to see what the situation in poland really looks like. why would you do that? because then you would have to admit that it is very good: that polish families finally have enough means to live (raise the minimum wage and the 500+ program), that poland is achieving better and better economic results, that thanks to the hard work of the government we have record revenues to the budget, and finally, that after many years of neglect poland has become a strong, safe and stable country economically and in my opinion this is the reason for the next debate, that poland dared to get up from its knees and raise its head, that it wants to be an equal actor on the european political stage. anyone who wants to acknowledge the truth about poland would have to see, as commissioner juncker did, the intense dialogue between poland and the european commission and share his views on the rapprochement between poland and the ec. you just don't have the power or the will or the courage to do it.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i am taking this point on behalf of my colleague, ms mogherini, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening. these are challenging times for human rights all around the world. the space for civil society continues to shrink in several countries, and human rights defenders are too often a target of violence and intimidation. there is a growing belief that national laws can disregard universal human rights. the international criminal court and the very idea of international justice have too often been questioned and it is against this background that we europeans have an even stronger duty to invest in the united nations and in the protection of human rights through the un system. this is why the european union continues actively to engage in the un human rights forums. earlier this week, the foreign affairs council adopted new conclusions on the political priorities for the european union in the human rights forums in 2018. when human rights come under threat, we must mobilise all of our tools to protect the people in need and improve the situation. this means that our action on the ground, where the violations are happening, must always be backed by diplomatic action at all levels. that includes multilateral action within the united nations system, particularly in dedicated forums such as the human rights council and the general assembly’s third committee. we want the un human rights council to be a strong and effective forum to protect and advance human rights worldwide. for that reason, we also support reforms that would make the council as effective and as accountable as possible to the citizens of all of our countries. the council’s ability to address country situations must be preserved and, at the same time, the council must adapt to a more challenging global environment. a more effective un system is a stronger un system and, for this reason, we support the united nations secretary—general’s ambitious reform agenda. during the ongoing session of the human rights council, the eu will play a leadership role on the matter of country-specific and thematic initiatives. we remain deeply concerned about the continuing grave and systematic violations of human rights by north korea. together with japan, the european union will table an initiative to address the human rights situation in the democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk). we will also present a resolution on the human rights situation in myanmar. in light of the violence suffered by minorities in myanmar, and particularly by the rohingya people, we will propose to renew the mandate of the special rapporteur and we will confirm our support for the independent international fact—finding mission. the european union, together with partners from all over the world, will also continue to build on its initiative on freedom of religion or belief and, together with the group of latin america and caribbean countries (grulac), on the rights of the child, focusing on the protection of children in all humanitarian situations. just a few hours ago, this house discussed the situation in eastern ghouta in syria. the suffering of syrian children is a stark reminder of how crucial is our work to protect children in crisis. we will also continue to bring human rights in syria to the attention of the human rights council. the fight for accountability and against impunity is not just a matter of moral justice but is also essential to the perspective of national reconciliation. so we will keep on working to allow access for the commission of inquiry, ensure unhindered humanitarian access, call for the release of detainees, and demand the full application of humanitarian law by all sides. it is sad that so many human rights violations are taking place in this very year, as we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the un declaration of human rights, but we should not lose sight of important good news coming from all around the world. support and awareness of human rights is increasing throughout the global population and this is thanks to social media, to the use of major sports events, to the power of youth movements, to more responsible businesses and corporations, and to celebrities and influencers who use their voices to advocate. this also demonstrates that every person can contribute in a positive way and stand up for human rights. likewise, together with the eu special representative, stavros lambrinidis, we have been working on the good human rights stories, with a view to the upcoming general assembly. this initiative aspires to promote a fresh, positive narrative on human rights in the world. its central focus will be on promoting good human rights stories by identifying, sharing and showcasing the implementation of human-rights-based policies in all fields through positive examples. we believe this can be a powerful source of inspiration for people all over the world. in times when human rights defenders are under attack and human rights are too often violated, it is easy to fall into cynicism and despair. as we work to find practical solutions to protect people and their rights, we must also focus on all the progress we have achieved together and try to keep the hope alive.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. thank you for that introduction. next week, the 37th session of the human rights council in geneva, which has a very busy agenda. but the european parliament delegation will also have a busy agenda, participating in this session, on the one hand supporting the priorities adopted by the council in its conclusions of 26 february, and on the other hand taking as our parliamentary starting point for these debates the latest annual report on human rights and democracy in the world, adopted by the european parliament in december 2017. many of the priorities set out in the report are relevant to the agenda adopted for the annual session of the human rights council. first, we know that the death penalty is still in use. the number of executions is unfortunately increasing. some countries that have a gsp+ agreement with the european union on privileged cooperation have also reinstated the death penalty. second, the right to peace and to live in peace. for example, syria and other conflict areas, where we have to pay particular attention - and i agree fully with you - to the suffering of children in conflict areas and the protection of children in conflict areas, not only from the direct threat, but also from the secondary threats that go along with it. and finally, freedom of religion and belief. i think that our initiative to bring forward a resolution on freedom of religion and belief to the united nations human rights council should be fully supported here. the last thing i want to talk about is business and human rights, or corporate social responsibility. it is also in the interest of european companies, because the elements that are poorly presented here unfortunately also affect the competitiveness of the economy in other countries.
in writing. the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, which closed last year, was a great success for the international community. 161 people who were accused of war crimes during the war in the former yugoslavia have been tried, with more than 80 convicted. the ad hoc tribunal set up in 1993 by a un security council resolution was the first, after nuremberg and tokyo, to try people accused of international crimes. although the establishment of the tribunal did not prevent the murder of 8,000 bosnian men and boys in srebrenica in 1995, its subsequent almost 25 years of activity have given rise to the belief that international perpetrators will have to answer for their crimes sooner or later. it also works well for the hague-based international criminal court.
madam president, in this house we have consistently and repeatedly called for an eu blacklist of tax havens. the blacklist that the council published in december last year is a step in the right direction, but it is far from satisfactory. first of all, it consists only of 17 jurisdictions, with some obvious cases of tax havens excluded from the list, as has been made clear from the final report of the panama committee. secondly, those countries have been put on the list without actually giving us specific information on the basis of which criteria the selection has been made. finally, less than two months later, eight countries have been removed from this list, again without giving us a full explanation and justification for this step. so i call on the council to give this house full information, including the criteria by which countries are put on and removed from the blacklist.
madam president! today, efsa published its long-awaited report on the impact of neonicotinoids on bee health. the first step in addressing this issue should be to deepen the dialogue between the different parties in order to achieve the best possible results under the current system. this means further improving the quality of plant protection products used, better selecting the period in which they are used and similar actions. if farmers are to achieve this, they must have certain knowledge. at the same time, industry should increase its research funding and develop more environmentally friendly plant protection products and fight against counterfeiting. we should be aware that banning the use of official plant protection products will create a black market where products of questionable quality and much more harmful products will be sold. then there's going to be a tragedy. therefore, when imposing a dialogue on restraints, farmers should also be given some alternatives. only dialogue and understanding can help us build sustainable agriculture.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr sander loonez, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the banking union annual report 2017 (2017/2072(ini)) (a8-0019/2018).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, i think it is very good that the banking union report has been successfully established as one of the routine exercises of the european parliament. this time around, on many issues related to the functioning of the banking union, we have had the opportunity to express ourselves for the first time. i am thinking here of the actions undertaken by the european institutions to fight non-performing loans or the recent bank resolution cases. but this year we also have a chance to move forward on legislation. we have received from the commission a proposal for a fiscal backstop for the single resolution fund. we have also the commission communication on the banking union that, among others, intends to relaunch the discussion on the european deposit insurance scheme (edis), the missing pillar of the banking union, and to test a new approach to the design of the system. and of course, the banking package is still under discussion. but this is also the moment for those member states that do not share a common currency yet to consider joining the banking union as soon as possible. it is a shock-absorption mechanism and also comes with governance arrangements that help deal with home host issues. the benefits of belonging to such a system would be particularly pronounced in central europe, where member states are host countries, hosting a huge number of branches and subsidiaries of institutions that actually come from the banking union area. also, at a time of questions on the future of the union and the risks of increased fragmentation, a broad membership of the banking union would be a way of containing supervisory divergence and fragmentation and of involving all member states in a common project that fosters resilience and financial stability.
a heartfelt request to respect the timetable. we have four bills to consider and a vote to be taken at 11.30.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me once again thank mr loones for his excellent report and for today’s debate. the debate shows once again that we agree on the importance of the banking union in order to ensure a robust and stable financial system where banks are able to play their role of lending to the economy and helping to stimulate further economic growth. to achieve this common goal, we should move from our current positions and make every effort to find solutions that could accommodate all interested stakeholders. as we have emphasised a number of times, we need to move with risk-sharing and risk-reduction hand—in—hand. several colleagues raised issues relating to the ablv bank, and i think it has exposed certain weakness in a banking union. in recent years we have substantially strengthened the eu’s anti-money laundering (aml) framework, whereas the enforcement of this framework remains largely national. so there we must really see what we can do more at european level as regards aml enforcement. as has been said several times, also by the commission, we need to take advantage of this favourable economic moment to complete the banking union. this is the only way to ensure that the overall economic and monetary union is completed as well and is strong enough to cope with a future crisis. we count on your efforts and support to help move this regulatory agenda forwards.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 1 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr emmanuel maurel, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with regard to reportable cross-border arrangements (com2017) 0335 c8-0195/2017 2017/0138 cns)) (a8-0016/2018). at this point, we are faced with a procedural problem. i checked, we didn't speed up our debate schedule, it's the commissioner who's running a little late. would it be all right if we started our debate with the rapporteur's speech, with the hope that the commissioner will come?
i would like to extend a warm welcome to commissioner moscovici. i wanted to inform you that we are at the next stage: there was a speech by the rapporteur, there were two speeches by the political groups (epp and s&d). i was about to ask you to speak.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we have repeatedly criticised in this house the harmful practices of tax avoidance, the creation of aggressive tax schemes and so-called tax optimisation. these are all practices which, even if they are legal, mr coburn, are contrary to the spirit of the law and certainly introduce very harmful discrimination, particularly against small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore welcome the commission's legislative proposal and i also want to say that i will support mr moreel's report because these documents are aimed at curbing these practices. they will certainly have a chilling effect on the one hand and will prevent, in many cases, financial intermediaries, banks, tax advisers from proposing various suspect tax schemes. on the other hand, they are very important information for the tax authorities, which will be able to seal the tax system and eliminate these unfavourable practices.
in writing. – i would like first to congratulate the rapporteur, mr nart, on a very good report with a catalogue of specific solutions. combating the financing of terrorism is a demanding topic and i agree that it should be a key priority, as it constitutes a useful tool in hampering the effectiveness of terrorist networks. all member states should make every effort, and should take joint action, to cut the flow of funds and other financial assets and economic resources to individuals and entities on the isil (daesh) and al-qaeda sanctions list. we repeatedly underline how extremely important it is that information sharing among financial intelligence units should be improved and speeded up. therefore, it is a crucial aspect of the sharing of best practices among intelligence agencies. the report rightly pointed to the investigation and analysis of terrorists and of terrorist organisations’ methods of recruiting and the transfer of terrorist financing. there is no doubt that, as the eu, we must continue to oppose cruel and unacceptable acts of terrorism. we should remember that the fight against terrorism is fundamental to the security of european society. we are required to take appropriate measures in response to every type of threat against our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. among the european union's priorities for the un session in new york is the economic empowerment of women living in rural areas. i think we all know very well that it is particularly difficult for women in rural areas. very often, doing the same hard physical work as men, they receive lower pay. they have less access to health care, education, training. it's very good that we're talking about these issues today, because we can actually improve the situation of women by making it easier for them to access education, health care, medical care, social care. we also need to talk about women having a guaranteed right to a pension. these women whose lives are centered around caring for the elderly in the family, the sick, the children. so i'm going to support all of those priorities that i think are right and good and just. no need for ideology.
in writing. – i support the recommendation of the european parliament presented to the council for the 62nd session of the un commission on the status of women. the eu could stand as one of the examples in terms of gender equality and therefore should be vocal in promoting those values across the world. we need to encourage all countries to further develop and implement policies to facilitate the lives of women and girls around the globe, and especially to prevent discrimination and domestic violence, to promote access to education and involvement in public life that mainly remain limited in rural areas, and to eliminate the gender pay gap and unfair conditions in employment. the entrepreneurial potential and economic benefit of full women’s participation in the labour market represents the underexploited source of economic development. we should urge the ratification and implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, with a special focus on article 6 relating to the rights of women with disabilities, the marrakesh vip treaty, and to pursue policies to address the situation of women facing social exclusion and poverty. furthermore, the eu should call on the 18 remaining members of the council of europe to ratify the istanbul convention.
i also supported this directive because i feel that it is precisely in the fight against tax evasion that the tax authorities of the various national states can cooperate very closely and that europe should adopt clear rules for this, for crossborder cooperation between tax authorities, within the framework of its european law. as my colleagues have already said, the problem of money leakage to tax havens is a major problem for the eu and we must therefore respond to it with legislation of sufficient quality. that is why i have also supported this directive and hope that it will be used in practice, that it will be implemented in the individual national legislation and will contribute to the fact that there is a mandatory exchange of information between the individual tax authorities of the member states and that those who are trying to establish, for example, a business in a tax haven, will also report these facts to the competent tax authority.
madam president! i voted against the resolution by parliament on the commission's decision to invoke article 7 of the treaty in respect of the situation in poland. this decision is not only an expression of the double standards applied in the union, but also another attack on the democratically elected polish government, which, in accordance with its electoral promises, is implementing reforms that are at least twenty years behind schedule. this is particularly about reforming the judiciary, which most of the public doesn't trust. the reform of the functioning of the judiciary is a competence of the member states in accordance with the treaties. so concerned about the rule of law in poland, the opposition, despite many years of rule, did not carry out any reforms, but only perpetuated previous pathologies. the solutions proposed by the polish government are also applied in other member states, and the different levels of retirement age are only an expression of respect for women and appreciation of their work as wives and mothers raising children.
madam president! i'd like to thank everyone who voted against this shameful resolution that is going to hit poland. poland is a free and democratic country, we respect the laws of democracy and in democratic elections the poles elected a parliamentary majority. this parliamentary majority, following the electoral program, spoke about fixing the unjust justice system in poland, which was oppressive against the weak and powerless against the strong. we promised the poles that this system of injustice would become a system of justice. the solutions we propose are the same as those which are in place in many member states. it is shameful that the european parliament wants to get involved in matters that it does not understand at all. we inherited our justice system, madam president, from the prl, from the soviet communist state.
madam president! why is this debate taking place today when the european parliament will have to react to a possible proposal from the european council to take action against poland under article 7 anyway, but will have to react with the two-thirds majority provided for in the treaties? what's the purpose? i guess it's just to replace formal steps with a pure political demonstration. i think it's to hide the fact that the governments of the european countries are actually resisting the idea of further partitioning of europe at a time when europe already has so many problems. there is something really grotesque about the fact that, at a time when we are talking so much about populism, instead of the formal procedure laid down by the treaties, we are conducting a pure political demonstration to show the existence of a majority which is not the majority provided for by law, that is, the majority required by the 22 governments of the european union.
madam president, i voted against. pani przewodnicząca! głosowałem przeciwko, aczkolwiek zgadzam się, że partia rządząca nie ma pojęcia, co to są rządy prawa. tutaj, na sali profesor legutko powiedział, że muszą usunąć sędziów, którzy głosowali za komuny i skazywali opozycję. ale oni wykonywali prawo, i tak samo dzisiaj głosowaliby, tak jak chce pis. jednak oni nie chcą sędziów, którzy stosowaliby prawa, tylko chcą sędziów, którzy głosowaliby zgodnie z zachciankami partii rządzącej. sędziowie w nowym prawie będą karani i nagradzani za to, jak głosują, i to jest oczywiście przeciwko wszelkim zasadom rządów prawa. ale głosowałem przeciwko, ponieważ każda ingerencja unii europejskiej wymierzona w pis, umacnia pis. każdy atak unii europejskiej na rządy pis-u umacnia rządy pis-u. dlatego jestem przeciwny tej rezolucji i głosowałem przeciwko. a poza tym sądzę, że unia europejska musi być zniszczona.
madam president! this report calls - quite rightly in theory - for the avoidance of any abuse that could lead to the tyranny of the majority. the only problem is that we live under this tyranny of the majority. neither the family, nor life, nor education are considered as communities and goods whose nature cannot be changed by political power. the same is true of the freedom of nations. against this freedom and against the treaties, the present authorities of the european union are invoking, as president timmermans says, the will of the overwhelming majority of governments and of this parliament. so what's the appeal? is it really about the tyranny of the majority or is it about the last barrier to our freedom, the enslavement of public opinion in our nations?
madam president! march 1st is a special day for poles it's the national day of remembrance of the cursed soldiers. it's a day when we remember the soldiers of the second conspiracy who after world war ii did not lay down their arms, but stood up to heroic struggle against the communist occupier. between 1944 and 1956, nearly 50,000 soldiers of the underground were murdered in poland, and 250,000 people were imprisoned. thousands more were deported to siberia and other parts of russia. during the stalin years, nearly 5 million poles were under surveillance. unfortunately, these efforts were so successful that the communist government survived until 1989 and it was this government that shaped the justice system in poland, which today the law and justice government wants to reform, and unfortunately the dictatorship of the majority in the european parliament makes it difficult for him to do so.
mr. chairman, please! a large number of members of this parliament have addressed their predecessor, president schulz, and then directly to you, mr president, about the painting which is on display in this parliament downstairs, opposite the chamber, under the provocative title 'the sorrowful one'. this unambiguous title is an insult to the faith of many of us, but it is also an insult to the most sacred symbols of the european tradition. we were pointing out that this is a sign of humiliation. even if there are people among us who are consciously professing their spiritual or moral views and agree to be humiliated, let us be humiliated, not those we love the most: let the mother of christ not be humiliated. easter is coming, and it's a great opportunity for you to put an end to this manifestation. he appeals to you in the name of your honor, as i appealed to you directly after your election.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the commission's policy on integrity, in particular the appointment of the secretary-general of the european commission (2018/2624 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this report, which brings to light the - as it turns out - subtle links between trade and equality. trade agreements contribute to the economic development of the world and thus to greater employment opportunities for women and to the improvement of their household situation. however, it should be remembered that women, especially in developing countries, are often used for slave labor, at very low rates. the european union should not agree to this. trade agreements provide opportunities to pressure parties to respect human and labour rights. the european union has a duty to promote the idea of equal rights also in trade agreements, in order to reduce the phenomenon of exploitation of women at work and to increase their chances of good education and employment, and thus to contribute to the improvement of their lives and to the development of the economies of the countries in which they live. i also share the intention expressed in paragraph 29 of the report, which calls on the european investment bank to monitor whether companies involved in investment projects comply with the principles of equity policy.
madam president! women's rights are not respected, especially in terms of equality, even in some member states of the european union, let alone in third countries. it's very bad, tragically, dramatically, and it's very common in underdeveloped countries and developing countries. for example, women are very often employed illegally, especially in agriculture, but also in industry. therefore, all possible instruments should be used to promote women's rights and gender equality. but when it comes to trade agreements, prudence and responsibility are needed. trade agreements, not as they say here, are not just for profit, and not just for the economy, but for social development. i believe that without the trade agreements and cooperation of the european union with third countries, the situation of women in those countries would be even worse. that is why i would urge that the debate be brought down a little.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! the istanbul convention is supposed to protect women from violence. in reality, it is primarily a leftist worldview, because the objectives of the convention, which are to prevent violence against women, protect its victims and prosecute perpetrators, are not questioned. but they are, madam president, embedded in a controversial ideological context centred around a gendered vision of society, in which gender is a sociocultural, not a genetic, fact. i encourage you to read the convention and familiarize yourself with it. unfortunately, this leftist need to bring about an ideological cultural revolution has nothing to do with respect for the treaties and the principle of subsidiarity. the union is once again trying to intervene where it has no competence. these matters are the responsibility of the member states.
madam president! the istanbul convention is the best tool available today to combat violence against women, the gold standard of anti-violence policy, the ready roadmap for building national programmes to combat violence. all eu countries have signed the convention and most have ratified it. and since poland - my country - was mentioned earlier in the context of the gender discussion, i would like to inform you that poland was one of the first countries to sign and ratify the convention. we had a discussion about gender, but most of us were convinced that this convention should be signed and ratified because it is valuable. a key part of the convention, which distinguishes it from similar instruments, is its chapter on prevention. it talks about preventing violence against women, linking prevention of violence with equality. the connection is very clear: the more equality, the less violence. given the high ratings of the convention as a roadmap to combating violence, and also in the context of the issue of equality, it is incomprehensible to me that the european union, which is a world leader in promoting equality between women and men, has signed the convention on a very narrow basis. the european union, represented by the commission and the council, has thus abdicated its role as guardian and promoter of equality, although the treaty, and in particular the charter of fundamental rights, gives the union considerable powers in this area. i therefore call on the european commission to review the extent to which the union has acceded to the convention, and specifically to extend it to other articles of the convention where the union shares its competences with the member states under the law.
in writing. in reference to the debate held on 12 march 2018 on the european commission's statement on the ratification of the istanbul convention, in which poland was listed among the countries opposing the convention due to promoting gender ideology, i would like to clarify the following: poland did indeed have a very heated debate on the convention and - as in many other countries - the thread of 'gender ideology' was present. however, the initiator of the signing and ratification of the convention was the polish government, supported by the sejm of the republic of poland and civil society, involved in anti-violence activities, and the main opponent - the hierarchical catholic church, which issued official statements on the topic of "gender ideology", as well as mps from the right side of the political scene. as the debate showed, the majority of the sejm and the majority of the citizens were in favour of the convention, poland signed the convention in 2012 and ratified it two years later, in the summer of 2015, as the 13th eu country. that is why our country cannot be compared with bulgaria or slovakia, where it was at the level of the government and parliament, the official representatives of the state, that the decisions were taken to suspend the work on ratification. at the same time, i commend all the countries that have ratified this document, which was recognised by the un in 2013 as the 'gold standard' for anti-violence policy, and have implemented its provisions into national law.
in writing. let's not fool ourselves and cover ourselves with some ideological phrases. violence against women is a fact, and i'm not talking about statistics here, because i agree that they're not relevant. why would you do that? because many women do not report these crimes, especially when they occur in the home or in the family. it just means that there are more crimes against women than the official figures indicate. the istanbul convention, which aims to prevent violence and help women victims of crime, has been interpreted by some circles through the prism of incomprehensible fears that have no reference in the text. many lies have already been ingrained in the consciousness of our citizens. the convention does not mandate that countries recognize same-sex marriage, nor does it mandate sex education. i support the position of the european commission and many of my colleagues who are strongly in favour of the member states ratifying the istanbul convention as soon as possible. however, i would like to stress that ratification is only the beginning, the most important thing is to implement the convention's principles later, in order to combat violence against women and girls in a real and effective way and to help victims of crime in practice. as the example of poland shows, the ratification and signing of the convention does not prevent the current government from receiving public funding for legal aid and care facilities for women who are in dramatic life situations.
in writing. current international parcel delivery charges for universal service providers are up to five times higher than domestic charges. the prices for the delivery of cross-border consignments can vary considerably and can be contractual and misleading. the european parliament wants all citizens to know what they are paying for. we are therefore introducing legislation to increase the transparency of the services provided by parcel operators and the fees they charge. the new rules will improve crossborder parcel delivery services through greater transparency of rates and the extension of the market surveillance powers of regulators. the new rules will make it easier for consumers and businesses to check which shipping company offers the best prices. this will encourage consumers to use a wider range of products and to shop online more often. retailers, who have not had the power to negotiate better rates, will also have more opportunities.
in writing. the eu postal market is undergoing dynamic change. on the one hand, the scale and value of traditional postal services is declining, while the courier market is growing, already accounting for 47% of the value of all postal services in the eu. on the other hand, international mail is increasing steadily, so that it now accounts for 11% of the total value of postal services in the eu. the proposed amendments therefore rightly assume that the liberalisation of the european postal services market is to be reconciled with the guarantee of universal access to parcels. i would like to emphasise that the proposed solutions cannot be solely focused on opening up the market to all operators, as they can only be guided by the criterion of profit. equally important criteria must be the availability of services and the provision of reasonable prices.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. drivers' practical skills, imagination and quick reaction to potential hazards increase road safety. this was a major objective when we worked on the directive on professional driver training and driving licences. i would like to thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteurs for the level of discussion and the openness to the arguments, because thanks to this cooperation we have been able to prepare a document that adapts the training content not only to the needs of drivers but also to changing technological solutions and new challenges and threats. we have put a lot of emphasis on practical training supported by activities using ict. we have focused on environmental protection through eco-driving and raising awareness of the dangers of using electronic devices while driving. we have solved the issue of mutual recognition of driver qualifications by member states by putting the code 95 on the driving licence or driver qualification card. i think the big issue for our constituents is the exemptions from the training requirement. but ultimately it will be up to the member states to decide which entities and for how long will be excluded from the directive. in conclusion, i think that the negotiated text will have a positive impact on the quality and level of qualification of european professional drivers.
in writing. – currently, we are experiencing an extremely fast—moving technical and digital revolution across all european economy sectors, especially in transport. for policymakers it proves to be a difficult task to keep up with the speed of this rapid development. therefore, it is important that the eu institutions make substantial efforts to contribute to a common european—wide perspective for the transport sector. traffic is one of the most significant challenges faced by rapidly growing cites: congested roads are a strain on the environment, the economy and the overall quality of life. for this reason, the eu should encourage and support more research and innovation projects, including the cooperative intelligent transport system (c-its) to be able to deal with these problems. most of all, we should also address the challenges for the c-its regarding the guarantee of fair competition in the transport sector and the application of high cybersecurity standards in preventing hacking and cyber-attacks. we should draw our attention to the fact that data protection and confidentiality must be taken into account throughout the processing of data. there is no doubt that the european strategy on c-its is important for the future of the transport sector.
in writing. cohesion policy implemented through the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund is the european union's main policy in the field of investment, growth and development. its aim is to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between the regions of the community. it is particularly important that cohesion policy gives life to one of the most fundamental values of the european union, european solidarity. on the eve of the start of negotiations on the next eu multiannual financial framework, it is imperative to emphasise that cohesion policy should remain a priority for the union and be adequately supported by ambitious funding, even in the face of pressure on the eu budget. cohesion policy is the main tool of european economic policy for public and private investment that takes into account the territorial, social and economic specificities of regions.
madam president, now that we are moving toward the future relationship it becomes even clearer that withdrawal of the uk from the union is not a one—off event and it didn’t happen as some people believe. it is a lengthy, law—based, law—driven process based on both legal and political grounds with far-reaching consequences for the lives of people. we are all involved – institutions, states, citizens and businesses. yes, unity remains crucial but also listening to each other. the european parliament will be providing consent at the end of this process. the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) responsible for the institutional consequences of withdrawal and consent procedure will continue to be an open platform for hearings, debates, meetings with experts, citizens, all stakeholders concerned. we have to remember that we have also article 8 of the treaty on european union according to which the union shall develop a special relationship with neighbouring countries as close as possible in the interest of all our citizens and businesses and founded on the values of the union, and characterised by close and peaceful relations based on cooperation. this week will bring the withdrawal agreement, including transition agreed among the eu27, endorsed by the european parliament. the european council will decide next week on additional guidelines on the future relationship and we will vote on our expectations regarding the future in tomorrow’s resolution. hopefully all that will allow us to enter into formal negotiations as soon as possible. it is true that the clock has not stopped ticking but there is also still time for the uk to rethink the red lines.
madam president! i would like to remind you that we need britain as much as it needs us. this is why our future relations must be deep and why more ambitious solutions than the current models of cooperation with third countries are needed, especially in the field of foreign, security and defence policy. we should stop trying to punish britain and be more realistic in our negotiations. i'd like to say one more thing that my colleagues haven't said. well, brexit was and is also an opportunity for the union, an opportunity for self-reflection and reform, which would lead to decentralisation, greater transparency and a return to the importance of nation states, and to a union based on true european values. unfortunately, none of that happened, and we continue to see the development of practices that were the real reason and the result of the british referendum. lack of transparency in the functioning of the highest authorities of the institution, lack of accountability for mistakes and wrongdoing and arrogance in justifying these practices.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. - mr barnier, please! i was referring to your speech. there are three moments in particular that i really enjoyed. first, the methodical approach, second, the transparency of the process and, finally, a positive assessment of the work done so far by mr michel barnier. these are the points on which we should have no doubts here. oh, one more thing. three options, and that includes the option of a special agreement or a solution for the uk. i think it's really a very far-reaching way forward. the second is the statement of mr roberto guevara, who pointed out that, firstly, there is no competent response from the uk government, secondly, to treat people better than goods. but in one year, exactly one year, on march 29, 2019, brexit could happen. i'm being asked by road hauliers how they're going to get into the uk on 30 march 2019, and that's 4,000 entries a day.
in writing. the future partnership agreement with the uk cannot ignore cooperation in the fields of research, education and the cultural and creative sectors, which are areas of mutual benefit. the resolution prepared by the european parliament rightly emphasizes this position. as chair of the brexit monitoring group in the committee on culture and education, i proposed that the european union should at this stage retain maximum flexibility in its future arrangements for cooperation with the united kingdom. we are aware that at present, non-eu and eea countries covered by the programme have specific bilateral agreements with the eu for each programme. however, it may be in the eu's interest to define the terms of participation in the programme, for example in an association agreement, as negotiations progress. i am glad that the above proposals have been accepted. however, it should be borne in mind that after leaving the eu, the uk will become a third country and will be subject to the same rules as other non-eu countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, first of all, it's time to stop dividing us. the attacks on poland and hungary do not harm the governments of our countries, because public opinion is rather consolidating against the authorities, but they harm europe first and foremost, which they destabilize. europe today wants change, as the recent elections in austria and italy have shown, and it is time for the eu authorities to hear this voice - the sooner the better. one thing to look forward to at the forthcoming european council is a strong awareness that immigration policy, and especially asylum policy, must respect the sovereign competences of individual countries. the sooner we understand what the people of europe want, the better our cooperation will be.
mr. chairman, please! the report aimed to make recommendations to the union on gender equality in trade, especially in the context of new trade agreements such as ceta, ttip and tisa, where trade liberalisation and trade agreements are more about services, standards and regulation than ordinary trade. however, it is difficult to accept the call to collect quantitative and qualitative data with a gender breakdown or on the impact on trade or the impact of gender in trade policy, gender breakdown in all trade and investment agreements. the proposal to require the employment of women in all the trade ministries of the member states or to promote the equal presence of women in the internal structure of the wto, the world bank or other trade organisations, where employment should depend on the professionalism of the individual rather than on gender, is also unacceptable, which is why i voted against the report.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's trade policy cannot be guided by the narrow principles of growth, competition and efficiency. it should also be a tool for promoting values such as international labour standards and human rights. unfortunately, the situation of women in the workforce outside the european union is difficult, and while women do contribute significantly to the development of the global economy, they remain invisible to trade policy. most women in the global south are employed as low-level workers in sectors such as agriculture and seasonal work. for example, in south asia, the garment industry is dominated by women who are enslaved. i therefore believe that trade agreements should have a positive impact on the situation of women. the report we are voting on today is going in the wrong direction, because it wants to export gender ideology through free trade agreements. we must raise standards and respect civilized labour standards, but the european union cannot impose its left-wing worldview.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, officially, as commissioner andriukaitis wrote this year, the european commission recognises the differences in approaches between countries to the issue of abortion, which is not a matter of eu policy or legislation. why is the commission silent? and here commissioner thyssen has listened to the justification of the report by mrs forenza and mrs björk and why is she silent when we are dealing with the involvement of the european union in exporting the abortion revolution in the world? i call on the european commission to respect the treaties and i remind you that our countries - and there are fortunately a few of them - which promote the civilization of life in their law, have a right to respect. and we have the right to demand that the european commission defend that respect.
mr. chairman, please! the report proposes positive solutions to support economic growth, sustainable development and job creation in the less developed regions of the european union. they are based on the principle of subsidiarity and partnership. these solutions include improving relations between businesses and between businesses and universities, investing in infrastructure and education, improving connections between cities and neighbouring areas, investing more in public institutions to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public administration, and strengthening the links between the european semester and cohesion policy. although the report generally promotes positive solutions, i did not support the part on financing the migration crisis through the european structural and investment funds.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i supported the report on the role of european union regions and cities in implementing the paris agreement of the cop21 climate change conference for several reasons. i think it's good that it calls for investing in solutions that will improve air quality in cities. we should support initiatives that help protect the lives and health of our citizens. a good example is the increase in support for the thermal modernisation of public buildings. i agree that the budget for regional policy should be increased after 2020. in addition, funding is needed to support innovation and research that will help develop new technologies to reduce pollution. this is particularly important for mining regions which, like silesia in poland, are in the process of energy transition. i hope that the funds for modern coal technologies will be found in this project.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament takes a position on the future financial framework by means of an own-initiative report which sets out a political position on the future multiannual budget of the european union or the multiannual financial perspective. we are aware that the european commission is preparing to present its draft of its future financial framework on 2 may, and that is why the european parliament is making an effort to propose to the european commission, but also to the european council, its position on this framework. we are therefore working on both the revenue side, as the rapporteur will say, and the expenditure side. the european parliament believes that the european union after 2020 should maintain the level of ambition and action it has adopted before. this is important because the uk's exit from the european union - brexit - will of course affect the functioning of the european union, but we believe that the union should still remain at a certain level when it comes to the budget. at the same time, we remember that it is not just the 1% or so that is important, but also what the member states agree among themselves for the next seven years in all policy areas. the european parliament therefore proposed a budget of a certain size, realising that the proposal could be controversial. but it is based on certain calculations concerning the nominal level of agriculture and cohesion policy, as well as on the strengthening of those policies which we consider to be very effective, namely programmes such as erasmus, cosme and the programme for unemployed young people. but it is also important for us to find the means to meet the new challenges of defence and security. the european parliament refers to the very way in which the financial perspective is being drawn up. so we're talking very strongly about strengthening the resilience mechanisms. we believe that the flexibility mechanisms in place today are working and should be extended so that the european union can respond effectively to new challenges. in addition, the european parliament strongly supports the clear conclusion of the entire procedure for the 2019 elections. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we are therefore prepared to make every effort to expedite this procedure. and we are ready to work closely with the european commission on this. i'm not going to let you do this. we hope that our proposal, which we will be voting on tomorrow, will be carefully read and seriously considered by the commission and the council and that it will form the basis for our further cooperation.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. designing and agreeing on the multiannual financial framework is never business as usual. there are always some special circumstances: either the historic enlargement of the european union, or as with the current financial framework the depth of the crisis and the greek talks. now the special circumstance is brexit. one of the net contributors is gone, but so is the most ardent supporter of the current way of financing the european union. our two reports go hand in hand. we know very well that the european parliament's position on both these issues is not the same. we're the strongest in the annual budget. the multiannual financial framework requires parliament's consent, and the own resources only consultation with parliament. we're not just positioning the house. we also want to encourage the commission, and especially the ermutigen herr oettinger, to make an ambitious proposal on 2 may, one that does not expose us to the kind of problems i myself experienced in 2013-2014 when there were no funds to pay for the completed eu programmes. our two reports also share the desire to conclude the negotiations before the european elections. this is an extremely ambitious task, considering that the previous negotiations lasted two and a half years, and we have nine months to reach a final agreement, which means that we need a lot of political will and the synchronisation of the calendars of all the eu institutions, because the motive is noble, so that there are no delays, so that the beginnings of the next perspective are not wasted, as in fact 2015, 2016 and even 2017 were wasted. on the side of the own resources, which i have been working with gérard deprez, we have a paradox. the system is extremely criticized, but since the late 1980s it has been very stable. it's opaque, it's obscure, and it actually enforces the logic of juste retour. it leads to the perception that budget negotiations are a zero-sum game and contributions are a cost rather than an investment in the future of one's own country and the european union as a whole. i am a living memory of the last proposal, which called for two new own resources, namely a simplified vat and a financial transaction tax, and also called for a fundamental simplification of the whole system. there is not much left of it, but under pressure from the european parliament, a high-level group has been set up under mr monti's leadership, and we are benefiting from its work. we're drawing on the work of the monti group. knowing that we are repeating the proposal in a slightly better climate there is no longer the tightening of the belt as in 2011 2013 we respect the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. we know that all decisions on own resources must be approved, ratified by national parliaments. but we are opening up the possibility of rethinking the system, because here in the european parliament too there are people elected by the people in 28 countries - still in 28 countries - so you can bring the principle of no taxation without representation here. we're going to run our own personal basket of resources. some of them we repeat. there's the seigniorage, which is the most controversial. we're proposing a special reserve and a move away from discounts and adjustments. but first of all, i would like to thank once again my co-rapporteur, mr gérard deprez, and all the advisers and all the co-rapporteurs who have contributed to the report.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress very strongly that the polish delegation to the ecr group is in favour of closing the post-brexit funding gap and providing additional funds for new eu priorities. in our view, the contribution burden could reach 1,3% of the member states' gnp. we call for the abolition of all rebates in connection with the abolition of the uk rebate, the cessation of the reimbursement of unused funds to individual member states for the year, the introduction of a budgetary contribution for the access of the united kingdom to the eu market and, finally, the possible establishment of a financial burden for the eu in the form of a digital tax. it is necessary to provide for the budget of the union after 2020 at least at the current level for cohesion policy and the cap. in the latter, we demand an end to the discrimination against agriculture in the countries of central and eastern europe that has lasted for almost 15 years and the equalization of the level of direct subsidies in the new and old member states. we are strongly opposed to making contributions from the future budget of the union conditional on compliance with the values laid down in article 2 of the treaty, as it is impossible to establish any objective criteria in this respect. even the existing conditionality on fiscal discipline, although based on a hard, objective criterion, the so-called maastricht criterion, is applied selectively by the commission: for example, france has not complied with it for the past six years and has never been punished by the consequences of the stability and growth pact.... (the president withdrew the floor) (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there is indeed no consensus in the ecr group on this issue. as the polish delegation, we are in favour of a much larger budget, of both closing the post-brexit gap and financing additional priorities of the european union. it so happens that there is no budgetary discipline in the ecr group on fundamental issues. the polish delegation in this group is in favour of a larger budget.
madam president! the safety of our citizens is one of the eu's priorities. let us remember that food security, which has been achieved through the common agricultural policy, is one of its basic features. the cap is one of the first policies to be fully funded by the eu. the level of cap financing requires an analysis of the situation in agriculture. most member states are short of young farmers. the farmers are getting old. where are the causes? the average farmer's income is only 50% of the income of other occupational groups, half of which is eu funds. if we do not provide adequate funds for agriculture, the collapse, the bankruptcy of farms will increase. the european model of agriculture will disappear, an environmentally friendly agriculture that meets high standards and standards. agriculture is also part of a number of new challenges renewable energy sources are improving energy security, climate and creating new jobs. agriculture is the production of a range of raw materials for industry, as well as the production of various public goods related to the environment and climate.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the commissioner has been fond of talking about the commission as a service provider. if the commission is a service provider, the question arises how will it deliver it? first, it must be unanimously adopted by the member states, but also by the european parliament. i would like to make it clear that parliament has a number of questions it wishes to put before 2 may. we didn't bring it up in the debate, and it's worth asking today. we are waiting for the commissioner and the european commission to answer the question about the budget line for the euro area. what is it, where will the money come from and how will it be budgeted? so the first question is: what is the budget line for the euro area? the second question to the commissioner is: what about cohesion policy and the european social fund? that is the question that is being asked today in the european parliament. we're waiting for your response on may 2nd. third, we are waiting for a response on one investment fund. what is this concept? we're also waiting for information from the commissioner on may 2nd. we all know that we are faced with the very difficult task of reaching unanimity. i would therefore like to tell the commissioner that we are looking forward to joint action, but also to an answer to the questions we have about the internal arrangements in the european commission.
rapporteur. – madam president, i hope for a solid vote tomorrow in this house. once more, many thanks to everybody who has been involved with this dossier.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there has been no progress in eastern ghouta since the adoption of un security council resolution 2401. moreover, even more war crimes have been perpetrated by the forces of bashar al—assad, even with the support of security council members. yesterday there was a special area formula meeting of un security council members, with testimony of the syrian negotiating commission members urging un security council members for a binding resolution with the adoption of chapter 7 measures and all measures possible to achieve a real cessation of hostilities and bring lasting peace. i support the draft joint resolution and i would like to stress there should be no future and post—conflict syria for bashar al—assad.
mr president, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement gives the opportunity for better cooperation between the european union and cuba in the future. we should continue to promote such dialogue but in a responsible way, with focus on the sustainable development, democracy and human rights. our aim is to stimulate reforms in this country but their actual implementation is no less important. respect for human rights in cuba remains our biggest concern. an improvement in this area will be necessary in order to achieve the proper implementation of the agreement between cuba and the eu. the agreement still needs to be ratified by all the member states. so, we have time to observe the ongoing reforms and, if necessary, to put additional pressure on the cuban authorities. i believe that the eu-cuba cooperation agreement opens up a new space for improved relations. but the european union must keep its human rights and fundamental freedoms as a basis of this new relationship. substantial improvements must become a condition for further talks with the cuban government. if we want cuba to become a modern country, this process must begin with respect of their fundamental rights and freedoms. hence, the eu policy towards cuba must remain conditional on democratic changes in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your work. post-soviet asia is a very important region, a region of diversity, although perhaps we don't talk about it enough. there are five former soviet republics and there's mongolia, which was not formally part of the soviet union. this is a country that is in the middle of a geopolitical war that has nothing to hide. turkish influence is growing there. i was once visited by a parliamentarian from one of these countries in brussels, and he said to me, 'well, there is one turkish nation and two states: turkey and his country.' iran's influence is growing. our european influence is important. there's also american influence. the only question is, are they a little smaller than they used to be? and there's also russian influence, although i think it's less and less than it used to be. it's an important economic region. it is also a region that is important in our relationship with china.
mr. chairman, please! central asia is a kind of subregion that would seem to be left to itself, or at least to russia and china. not much has changed since the soviet union, especially in terms of the system. they have dictatorships, authoritarian governments, no democracy. and these are countries that are rich in resources, not just gas and oil, but also in metal ores, including precious metals. the peoples and communities of these countries deserve to join the family of democratic nations of the world. to achieve this, there is no doubt that the european union must increase its cooperation with these countries. it's the only way to democracy. economic cooperation too, because it will serve the communities and peoples of these countries.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the annual growth survey formally starts the implementation of the 8th cycle of economic policy coordination and management of the european union, the european semester. in its communication, the commission proposed the priorities on which member states should focus their attention in implementing national policies and reforms to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth in the 'noble triangle', increase investment, implement structural reforms and ensure sound fiscal policies. the main signal from this year's annual growth survey report is that the european economy is strengthening. after years of economic slowdown, gdp growth is higher than expected. unemployment is falling steadily. the public finances of the member states have improved and we are seeing a recovery in investment. these positive signals are encouraging and the european union and its member states must seize this moment to continue reforms and consolidate the positive trend. there is no doubt that there is still much work to be done. youth unemployment remains alarmingly high at over 16%. 6.3 million people aged 15-24 are not in employment or education. the level of poverty and social exclusion remains high. the return of the long-term unemployed to the labour market is a problem, with 44% of workers lacking basic digital skills. we also struggle with the mismatch of the skills of employees with the needs of employers. i want you to notice the paradox. on the one hand, we still have high unemployment in many places, and on the other hand, entrepreneurs are increasingly reporting a lack of manpower. it used to be an employer's market, now it's an employee's market. and this problem of people still out of work and employers looking for workers is present in both rich and peripheral regions. we are also not exploiting the full potential of smes and new technologies. however, we must be aware that dynamically changing labour markets will require reforms and new solutions in both education and training and work organisation. the challenges also include demographic issues and the broader work-life balance, including parental leave and childcare, as well as re-entry into the labour market and care for the long-term ill and elderly. i believe that the issues i have mentioned should be the top priorities that member states need to focus on when implementing national policies and reforms to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth. further intensive action is needed to improve the competitiveness of the european economy and the productivity of our enterprises. but we must not forget that we must put people at the centre of our actions, and that is why work to improve the european economy must go hand in hand with work to strengthen our social policy. i believe that the inclusion of the pillar of social rights in the european semester cycle from this year onwards can be an effective tool for achieving this objective. i therefore hope that the pillar's assumptions will be permanently linked to the recommendations to member states in the context of the semester. however, i would like to stress that even the best-formulated objectives and recommendations will not translate into real positive change if they remain on paper. it is therefore essential that member states improve the level of implementation of the recommendations issued in the context of the semester.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by saying that i very much agree with the theses contained in this year's economic growth analysis, as well as with the two reports prepared by our colleagues, mr hughes bayet and mr krzysztof hetman. i'd like to thank them very much for that. in its analysis, the commission presents an optimistic picture of the economic situation in the european union. we have reason to rejoice. economic growth remains at a fairly high level, exceeding the rate of growth in the euro area even in the united states for the first time. but remember, every recovery has an end, and the current u.s. recovery has lasted more than 103 months. this is the second longest period of prosperity in history right now. sooner or later, there will be a slowdown. and in that context, i want to say that europe is not quite prepared for this economic slowdown that will certainly hit the european continent in four, six, eight quarters. i see two areas of danger. first, investment, which we see is weak. the level of investment is still below the level of 2007-2008 i.e. 10 years ago. and that's the first thing to worry about. the second reason is the very high debt, especially in the private sector. i would point out that the ratio of loans to gdp in the private sector in the european union has increased by 10% over the last seven years, and in the euro area by 20%. these are two areas that we need to address with structural action, because otherwise we will not be prepared for the coming recession.
mr. chairman, please! the report rightly addresses issues such as employment growth and decent jobs, poverty reduction, support for people of extreme age, increased access to education, concern for small and medium-sized enterprises, integration of people with disabilities into the labour market and initiatives for the digital single market. eurostat estimates that 44% of europeans lack digital skills, while 90% of all jobs require them. however, it is difficult to accept that the european pillar of social rights is designed to complement national social security systems. the inclusion of the european semester in the procedures will be an attempt to push for uniform standards in social policy, which is still the responsibility of the member states. union or national regulations must not create new barriers to the internal market and thus weaken the competitiveness of the european union's economy. the process of building economic and monetary union must be transparent and in line with the principles of the single market.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for this very rich debate. many members mentioned the problem of aggressive tax planning. this parliament has been very vocal in trying to root out tax evasion and tax avoidance, and i agree with you. the erosion of the tax base is one reason why resources for essential public services have been squeezed. this year the commission has stressed the issue of aggressive tax planning in seven european member states in their country reports. these are practices that we know have the potential to undermine fairness and the level playing field in our internal market and they increased the burden on the eu taxpayers. it is also a recognised fact that important steps are being taken by member states across the union to halt the tide of tax avoidance. but you can count on us to continue working alongside member states to make this a reality. let us not spoil the window of opportunity. acknowledging that the legacy of the crisis is still visible in some member states and that gross disposable household income has not returned to pre-crisis levels in all parts of europe. but now is the time for increasing convergence and strengthening resilience for bad times. now is the time to implement reforms, including those linked to the pillar, to strengthen social resilience, to support and empower entrepreneurs and workers and other citizens, women and men, young and old alike, wherever they are born so that they can embrace the changes of the 21st century, and no longer have to fear them. we can only succeed if we act together, and thus our dialogue does not stop today. our intention is to pursue dialogue with you, the european parliament, with member states, with national parliaments, with social partners and all relevant stakeholders throughout the cycle of the semester. likewise, we encourage member states to involve social partners and civil society in the definition and implementation of major reforms. the european parliament’s active participation in the debate on the annual growth survey is important. i salute the work done by the rapporteurs, by the committees and the members involved in the drafting of the reports. your insights and views are very valuable to feed into our work on the european semester. in recent years, at the height of the crisis as well as in the current more favourable conditions, the european semester has proven instrumental to foster, guide and support reform processes in member states. i look forward to continuing our constructive dialogue in the coming months.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, before making my concluding remarks i would like to respond to the questions specifically addressed for my attention by mr lucke. i would like to say that the future of the european monetary union is a question of interest for all european citizens, so we will work on creating optimal conditions for strong and sustainable economic growth in the european union, through initiatives to strengthen the european monetary union. in march, leaders of the euro area will hold an open debate on long—term issues that are specific to the euro area, and work on the follow-up to the december euro summit is ongoing, with a view to a first set of decisions by the leaders in june. concerning my concluding remarks, i would like to thank you very much for your remarks. you addressed important points and your remarks will provide valuable input for discussions in the council that touch upon many aspects of the european semester, such as education, employment – with particular accent on youth employment – competitiveness, environmental and social policies. the country reports published by the commission last week represent the next important step in the current european semester. they formed the basis for the work which will eventually lead to the adoption of this semester’s country—specific recommendations during the summer. when working on the european semester and debating the country specific recommendations, we should always remember the importance of reaching as many citizens as possible, to increase national ownership. so i commend the initiatives taken in this regard, including the increased dialogue in the capitals and the consultations with the social partners.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank you for an interesting debate today, the european commission for preparing a comprehensive and balanced annual growth analysis, and my colleagues from other political groups for working together on this important report. today's debate has clearly shown that we all share the same goal of an economically strong european union that cares about its citizens and wants to ensure that they have a decent life, stable employment and access to quality social services. i am very pleased that the issue of childcare and children in general has been raised several times in the debate today. but i am a strong believer in pragmatism and the so-called golden rule. i think that if we set ourselves too ambitious and unrealistic goals, we risk not being able to achieve them, and instead of getting closer to the goal, we stay in the same place. on the other hand, focusing too much on one aspect, whether it's economic or social, can neglect the other, and that can also upset the valuable balance between the two. we must remember that economic and social issues are closely interrelated and interdependent. we cannot have strong social policy if we do not have a strong economy, and vice versa. i think we have succeeded in reflecting this need for a balanced approach in the report on the annual growth analysis. that's why i'm counting on your support in the vote tomorrow.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the decision of the united states to impose steel and aluminium duties (2018/2629 ((rsp)).
i tried to tolerate the extension of the time of the speech by 15 to 20 seconds on behalf of the political groups, because i believe that this is a specific speech, particularly important for the species. but 30 seconds is too long, mr. scholz, and in the future, please avoid it. there was also a proposal for a blue card question, but i would ask mr rubig, who asked for it, and the other members to be very careful in the debate on the members' question, because it is more a presentation of the political groups' positions. so i would ask the honourable member mr rubig to forgive me and, if necessary, to refrain from giving the blue card to this part of the debate between members. at the same time, i would also ask that you take into account the fact that we have to finish the debate by 10.00 a.m. then there will be a long debate with the prime minister of portugal. so i'd like to put us in a time limit. thank you for understanding.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will try to answer a few questions. the eu, together with brazil, canada and mexico, are the countries most affected by this, but there are others who also export steel. exactly how it strikes within the european union: we do not have the figures here but we are of course in close dialogue with the member states. there are about nine or ten countries affected in the european union, but the consequences are, of course, much larger. we do not know much about the australian exceptions. i have also read about it on twitter. the exceptions for canada and mexico are related to a satisfactory outcome of the negotiations of nafta, so we are still looking for more information there. in the eu we are security partners to the united states. that goes a long way back. we work together in nato; we have stood together in iraq, afghanistan and many other places in the world; we are cooperating in the fight against is; and our friendship and strategic partnership goes way back. on tariffs, we need to clarify a few issues. yes, the eu has tariffs on cars vis-à-vis the us and other countries, but the us has higher tariffs on other items. for instance, there are 25% tariffs on trucks and pickups, and you cannot discuss tariffs unilaterally. we try to take away tariffs in trade agreements. when there are no trade agreements, these are the tariffs, and they are not only vis-à-vis the us, but they are against all countries with whom we do not have a free trade agreement. so that is why you cannot negotiate them individually. it is part of a bigger picture. we believe that this measure is a safeguard in disguise and that the exception that does exist in the wto, but which is meant to be used for wartime, is misused. so we are confident that we could win such a case in the wto, and we are reaching out to other friends and allies to see if we can make a joint approach to the wto. on trade distortions, ms arena, that is why we have the safeguard measures that we are ready to put into place. whether a summit is the way to solve this is beyond my pay grade. i think we have to try to solve these issues quite urgently actually. but as long as the measures have not entered into force, we hope to avoid a significant trade dispute. the root problem, as many of you have said, is over-capacity in the steel and aluminium sectors. certain countries are using massive subsidies and producing non-market conditions, so the eu and the us should work together on this, and we are doing so. the eu have, from our side, done our part. as you know, with your help, we have modernised the trade defence instruments. we are using them and we are trying to uphold rules against those countries which distort trade or which have unfair practices. that is why we met, together with the us trade representative and also with minister seko from japan, this weekend to discuss how we jointly can work to face this challenge. we achieved a to-do list and an action plan and we will meet jointly again. it was a very constructive meeting, and the aim is, of course, to work to improve the level playing field. protection is never a good answer, and that is why we are reaching out to other parties of the world in order to jointly stand up for the principles of the rules—based international global trading system and the multilateral organisations. wto is not perfect, but it has served us well – us, the us and many other countries of the world – and we would rather work together to strengthen it and not weaken it. that is why we are also reaching out to other countries and have this very ambitious trading agenda. we are creating a circle of friends with parties across the world who are of the firm belief that trade is a good thing if we make good trade agreements based on fair, sustainable and transparent trade. that is good for our people and for our companies. that is why we stand up to do this within the framework of wto rules and the global trading system. i want to thank you for the strong support you have given to the commission and our approach to adopt wto-compatible measures. we are doing this in a measured and calm way. i also want to thank you because i know many of you have reached out individually to us counterparts in congress and elsewhere. that is indeed very useful. so thank you very much for this debate. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this house’s very strong support for the policy the commission has adopted in this fight. it’s very important that the whole eu is united when addressing this kind of trade issues and difficulties. we also acknowledge in the commission the good cooperation with the congress of the united states. both main parties – republicans and democrats – share the view on rules-based world order and rules-based trade with us. we have to acknowledge this good cooperation. the business sector in the united states also shares our views. so we have to acknowledge this. this is not a dispute between europe and the united states as such. that is why the commission will concentrate on problem-solving instead of provoking further problems in this fight. what do we want to do is to clear up this mess. i think there are good reasons which both sides will, at the end of the day, accept that we don’t need and we don’t want a trade war. instead we should concentrate on improving our trading conditions between the two trading blocks and like-minded continents. this incident is a good reminder for all of us: when we want to build or harness globalisation, it must be based on rules-based world order instead of the rule of the strongest. trade agreements are good examples of building a rules-based world order. actually, the reality is as simple as this: we have to choose between the two options. either we want to have trade agreements which bring values to trade and strengthen the rules-based world order, or then we are in a situation where we are at the moment, where arbitrary decisions can harm all of us. we will try to find a solution as soon as possible, and we want to enhance our trading and security cooperation with the united states.
i'm closing the debate. (the sitting was suspended.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in today's world, everyone wants to produce and sell well. this has resulted in deep financial imbalances, the indebtedness of many countries and the economic collapse of many regions of the world. this unsustainable globalization and overproduction of many commodities, including steel, has created the unfortunate phenomenon of a return to national protectionism in the us in the form of a 25% tariff on steel. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. what will be the condition of our (polish) steel industry then? is this the beginning of a global trade war? is this the beginning of the disruption of the post-war order on the europe-us line? the world must sit down at the round table and reform the who or create a new international body with wider powers. otherwise, there will be economic chaos and political upheaval, even local hot wars. i am in favour of swift diplomatic action by the eu to reach an agreement with the eu's partners: japan, brazil, mexico, etc. the rebalancing of the eu economies will undoubtedly become the key to future optimal reindustrialisation and the establishment of a new global market.
in writing. the growing protectionist trends in the world can pose a serious threat to our producers. to counter this, the processes of globalisation and liberalisation need to be streamlined. the way to do that is to adopt some principles, some rules, some best practices on a global level. until recently, the world trade organisation (wto) was the forum for such rules, but it is gradually losing its relevance, as exemplified by the failure of the december ministerial conference in buenos aires. the trump administration has a big part to play in dismantling the wto. protectionism violates the rules of trade agreed between the partners. i have not used the term 'free market infringer' here, because there are situations where, by bilateral or multilateral agreement, certain preferences are granted to certain free market participants. such a departure from the principles of the free market must, however, be deeply justified. it would be necessary to define at international level what situation threatening national interests or security must exist on the market in order to introduce such severe safeguard measures in the form of unilateral decisions, without any agreements, consultations. the principle of good commercial practice has been adopted, so that the measures taken are always proportionate to the situation. if that ratio is breached, then the other side retaliates, which is essentially the beginning of a trade war.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction at the acceptance of the suggestions made by the committee on culture, which i have had the honour to represent. i would remind you that our demand was that the relationship with programmes such as erasmus+ be clearly defined in these negotiations. i think it is a good move to separate the two elements of erasmus+ programmes for young people, but also for teachers, from those for learning. therefore, these measures could be voted on without any doubt. i would like to thank you again for accepting the suggestions made by the committee on culture.
yesterday, commissioner oettinger expressed his satisfaction at the 90% agreement between the european parliament and the commission. but it's always worth looking at what's in the areas of divergence, the 10 percent. fortunately, it turns out that these are not the most important issues. what is crucial and what links parliament with the commission is first of all the agreement, for example, to increase expenditure on defence, on security, on maintaining cohesion policy - a very important policy, since it involves local and regional authorities at various levels - and on maintaining such important programmes as erasmus+. this is obviously a small detail in the big budget of the european union, but from the point of view of the younger generation, it is very important that we invest in education, in innovation, in creativity. i would like to thank commissioner oettinger very much for this and ask him to take care of the 10% as well, because although these are not the key issues, they may nevertheless prove to be important at certain times.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to point out that the effort to fill the budgetary gap that is created by the uk's departure is indeed significant and deserves respect. but it is worth noting the efforts made to reform this whole source of revenue for the european union. what am i looking at? first of all, the recommendation to maintain the current own resources and gradually introduce new resources, which could be based on three completely new elements: first of all, revenue from vat in a modified form, part of the revenue from corporate taxation, monetary income, i.e. income received from the central bank mainly from the issue of money, but also on the financial transaction tax, the taxation of the digital sector or environmental taxes. it is very important to note that own resources, that is to say the 80% composed of two basic elements, are crucial and for this respect is due to those who have drawn up this document.
we had a debate yesterday on the multiannual financial framework. the agreement between parliament and the commission on security as one of the most important elements of this financial perspective was welcome. today we're going to talk about cybersecurity. it must be seen as a key task, or we will not succeed. we still lack the time, the consistency, the determination, and especially the effectiveness in defining the problem itself. i would like to draw attention to the fact that cybersecurity is associated with attacks on programmes, with tasks to obtain information without authorisation, with various viruses, also with impersonating unauthorised persons or with the theft of information, and above all with threats to the security of citizens and economic operators. what do i want to focus on right now? if we do not resolve this, if we do not succeed in protecting citizens and businesses, then europe's security will be seriously compromised. and it's already in serious danger. and one last thing: i have always believed that ignoring this issue, including from the technological point of view, is unfortunately in the interests of the enemies of europe, of european integration, and of our security.
mr president, digital is crucial for future competitive advantages and for everyday life. but the most essential things is trust. trust based on guarantees to make all digital activities secure, and cybercrime as an offence clearly punishable, when we use the banking system, pay for digital services, use administrative services, watch movies at the tablet, send data to our doctor via telemedicine platform. this is the preventive function of cybersecurity policies fighting against cybercrime possibilities. much more secure and protected devices, networks, platforms are the purpose of eu debate on cybersecurity package. key for the prevention is cybersecurity hygiene; new attitude: to pay attention to the rules ensuring security in cyberspace. so what do we need for an effective fight against cybercrime? a proper legislative framework, similar globally; international standards and certification schemes; cooperation and shared responsibility of all stakeholders: public authorities, private sector, civic society and consumer organisations; law enforcement; real and virtual capacity and tools, to act effectively against the dark net internationally. and coordination of common actions, in europe and globally, based on exchange of all information.
in writing. cybercrime by its international nature and the growing harm it causes is becoming an increasing challenge for the member states, the european union and the international community. it is estimated that cyberattacks, which involve attacks on computers and networks, cost the global economy up to 400 billion euros a year. last year, there were more than 4,000 ransom fraud attempts per day, and 80 percent of european companies experienced at least one cybersecurity incident. meanwhile, 51% of eu citizens felt uninformed about cyber threats and 69% of companies lacked basic knowledge about their vulnerability to digital threats. the european commission's doubling of the budget for the network and information security agency (enisa), which was renamed the eu cybersecurity agency last year, should therefore be supported. the agency is to hold annual cybersecurity exercises and defend against external attempts to influence elections. on the basis of the eu-nato joint declaration signed at the nato summit in warsaw on 8 july 2016, the eu also cooperates with nato in countering hybrid threats and in cybersecurity. the annual eu-led joint cyber and hybrid threat-prevention exercise this year is intended to strengthen cooperation between relevant eu and nato cybersecurity cells and to develop common standards.
madam president! i have a dual role here: as a member of our mission to slovakia and as the coordinator of my political group in the committee on budgetary control. i have to say, in this situation, you have to be very precise. on the one hand, by accepting large amounts of eu agricultural aid, slovakia can obviously expect that the allocation of these funds will be strictly respected. on the other hand, what is happening in slovakia is an internal matter of that country. slovaks decide whether they want early elections or not. this decision belongs to the slovak authorities, the president, the government, the slovak society and we will not interfere in it. we have a right to expect clear and transparent procedures. in conclusion, i would just suggest that we not talk about the general procedure, madam ambassador, because that is an admission of the helplessness of your country's authorities.
madam president! for me, the two shocking murders of investigative journalists in malta and now in slovakia, as well as the plight of many whistleblowers, which we have discussed here recently, have a somewhat broader meaning. and i think these are drastic examples that show a much larger problem. what's the problem? namely, the differences between the facade and reality. the facade built with declarations, and sometimes the facade built here in parliament, with a commitment to the values and principles of transparency, the values of european democracy, and reality. and the reality, as we know, is a little bit more complicated. this is the reality that investigative journalists are investigating. and what i wanted to say here is that what investigative journalists -- and sometimes whistleblowers -- are revealing is not just the discrepancy between the facade and the reality in malta and slovakia, but also in other european countries. and i would advise my colleagues to look more closely at the situation in their own countries as well.
i'll admit i'm not a fan of the outward manifestation of one's views in the form of t-shirts, plaques, signs. but this time i made an exception. i made an exception in this case for two reasons: firstly, because we are not dealing here with the inflation of such a demonstration of views, but on the contrary, we are showing the european parliament's attitude to murder and to the attack on the european imponderables. secondly, freedom, justice, democracy and respect for the rule of law are the foundations, the pillars of europe, and if the european parliament does not defend these values, it will be weaker or will cease to function. i therefore call for the work of investigative journalists and war correspondents to be protected in a special way and for the situation to be dealt with appropriately.
madam president! we have repeatedly called in this house for taxes to be paid where value is created. and that is why i welcome the draft directive on a common corporate tax base. i believe that there cannot be an efficient, effective and uniform market in a situation where individual member states apply different tax bases, different rules for the deduction of various elements of the cost of taxation and thus introduce very significant distortions in the mechanism of competition. we should really speak with one voice on this. a single tax base across the european union market should not be part of tax competition between countries, but should be part of facilitating the functioning of the single market. on the other hand, i want to make it very clear that i am against the harmonization of tax rates. we often hear, especially from the left of the room, calls for tax rates to be standardized. i would like to say to all the colleagues who are making such proposals that as long as we do not have a unified or equal level of development in the individual member states, we cannot have uniform tax rates. taxes are a burden on the business. in return for these charges, the companies receive certain services from the state. in some countries, the level of services provided to businesses is obviously lower and we should take this into account. therefore, as regards the harmonisation of rates no, but as regards the harmonisation of the tax base yes.
madam president! it is surprising that there are still many barriers, obstacles or even pitfalls for operators in the european market. all these years later, we're still facing barriers that seemed simple. i understand that harmonizing 28 tax systems is not easy and is not possible today. i am not able to understand why there are still so many different kinds of obstacles to the normal taxation. i am very pleased with the two stages that are currently being proposed. i also accept a transitional period during which the proposed compensation mechanism would operate. however, it is now crucial to have a well-defined head office and to move really quickly to implementation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. ladies and gentlemen! processes taking place outside the european union are increasingly affecting the situation of the eu agri-food sector. another example of external factors affecting our agriculture is the us trade restrictions on spanish olives, although it is to be expected that various products from other countries may also be affected in the future. the growing protectionist trends in the world can pose a serious threat to our producers. i would now like to present a letter. on 13 july 2017, an anti-dumping and countervailing duty proceeding was initiated in respect of spanish ripe olives after it was found that subsidies maintained by olive producers in the union were causing olive products to be imported into the united states at below market prices. given that the increase in exports from spain has very little impact on the situation of the two american olive producers, the most worrying aspect of the case is that the countervailing duty procedure is examining certain support measures applied under the common agricultural policy, even though they fully meet the criteria for green category payments in force in the wto. the measures under the countervailing duty procedure are the basic payment scheme, aid for young farmers, etc. which are not linked to production. they do not affect the price level on individual agricultural markets. they do not disrupt international trade. on 19 january 2018, the department of commerce imposed an unjustified countervailing duty on spanish olives in excess of 17%. what action has the commission taken in this regard? how does the commission support spanish companies? what action is planned to respond to the threat to the common agricultural policy? is the commission considering the possibility of bringing a complaint against the usa to the world trade organisation? that's the end of the question. finally, i would also like to stress that, in addition to fighting protectionism, we must also seek to ensure a level playing field on the world market. this is a matter of environmental, climate and social standards.
mr. chairman, before i begin my remarks, i would like to ask that the gallery be quiet. ladies and gentlemen, you are only listeners here and should not interfere with our discussion. i'd be very grateful. mr. chairman, please! creating incentives for businesses to be socially responsible is extremely important. especially in this day and age, when the pursuit of profit overshadows other equally important aspects. enterprises, especially larger ones, are often an integral part of a geographical area and become one of the main sources of employment and income. fortunately, more and more companies are creating various programmes as part of their corporate social responsibility. i have examples of this in my region as well. but i believe that the creation of a csr programme should be the will of the company. such an obligation should not be introduced by european legislation. rather, we should focus on incentives for entrepreneurs, which can take various forms for example tax incentives, as well as image incentives. consumers need to be made aware and convinced that it is worth buying products or using services from companies that promote good working conditions, environmental protection or support the local community. i was surprised by the proposal to ban the relocation of companies from one country to another as part of the corporate social responsibility. the decision on the business model and the location of the business is left to the companies. this is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the treaties within the european union. i think we should pay more attention to the instruments that allow us to mitigate the effects of relocation and provide workers with retraining or other attractive employment. europe has the instruments to do so. one of them is the social fund. its effective use can strike a balance between the protection of workers and the freedom to manage the company. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. speaking of the audience, i was referring to the noise that the audience in the gallery was making. but as for your question, i think it's very important that we play our cards straight. if, in a given market, a company is having problems keeping its employees, is laying off five or ten workers at a time and cannot use any other instrument, then the instruments provided by the european union should be used, for example the social fund, which will allow the redundant workers to be re-qualified. a lot of examples in europe show that these people are even more satisfied with the work they do.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's statement was misunderstood. i have the impression that the interpretation of this document is too often expansive and in some of the examples given not very precise. the responsibility we speak of as the social responsibility for the activities of european companies and subcontractors outside europe, and for the results achieved here in europe, must be strongly revised. i feel that this document should be more adequate, more up-to-date and at the same time more in line with the principle that is universally accepted - that corporate responsibility is not a grace, that any social consequences do not mean making some extraordinary effort for their employees. it's just predicting specific effects that have very broad, very global implications and so are the effects of activity. and i'll just add one thing to the end. it cannot be that this is required of europe, of european actors, and not applied to external actors.
on behalf of the ppe group. thomas mann and our colleague hristov malinov have created a wonderful duo. not only did they prepare the document well, but they also set an excellent example of time discipline, which is rare in the european parliament. i thank them very much for this, because it is a sign of respect for all the other meps. i will only mention two points: the qualities of europass have been mentioned first and foremost, and these are openness, voluntariness, flexibility and adaptation to market needs. if we add to this the new challenges of digitisation, simplification, greater accessibility and the best response to changing conditions, we should applaud them, congratulate the solutions and save ourselves time for further discussion.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we welcome the new european agenda for skills, competences and qualifications. there have been positive changes in the transparency of the europass portfolio, which is importantly on a voluntary basis. the changes shall be introduced gradually without increasing administrative costs. remember, europass is a set of documents that allow you to present your skills and qualifications in a clear and understandable way throughout europe, i.e. a curriculum vitae, a language passport, europass mobility , i.e. knowledge and qualifications acquired in another european country, and diploma supplements confirming professional qualifications and university graduation. the current positive developments are the practical adaptation of europass services to the needs and expectations of users and service providers, respecting the diversity of responsibilities, including those of persons with disabilities, simplifying the system and improving efficiency, also taking advantage of the possibilities of future digital systems. europass will improve understanding of the effects of learning in formal and non-formal settings, as well as through practical experiences, including mobility. congratulations to both reporters.
mr. chairman, please! more than a decade after the adoption of the europass decision, it urgently needs to be updated and adapted not only to the new situation on the labour market but also to the technological revolution that has taken place during this time. i agree with the rapporteurs that making europass a completely new instrument would be too radical. however, this system should focus more on improving the understanding of learning outcomes achieved in non-formal and informal settings, as well as through practical experiences, including mobility. the amendments proposed by the parliamentary committees are important for several reasons. the main weakness of europass is its low recognition among potential beneficiaries. it is therefore a good idea to rename the national skills coordination points to the europass national centres. this seemingly simple move will allow the system to spread throughout the societies of the member states. changes to ensure the involvement of civil society organisations in the assessment of skills and qualifications are also welcome. this will increase the flexibility of the system, while maintaining the obligation to link assessments to existing requirements. it is important to increase the participation of disabled and elderly people in europass. given that they are socially disadvantaged groups in the labour market, it is necessary to facilitate the demonstration of their education or skills, even those acquired in an informal or extra-formal way. i thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work.
mr. chairman, please! i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the strategy they have adopted and on their work to adapt europass to the requirements of the modern labour market. the european union decision, which is the legal basis for europass, has been in force for many years and was adopted before the economic crisis. it therefore needs to be changed to reflect the opportunities and challenges facing workers and employers today. europass is a key initiative to increase the flow of workers on the european labour market by facilitating the recognition of their competences at the level of different countries. changes such as the introduction of an electronic portfolio and the ability to assess one's skills are crucial for the mobility of workers in the european union, which is one of the pillars of the continent's economic integration. as a result, the amended decision will allow for more support for people moving into the european labour market than is currently the case. the document produced in the context of the trialogue therefore deserves the full support of parliament.
thank you very much. i'm not in a hurry, but it's my duty to conduct the debate properly and in an orderly fashion. that's why i'm calling attention to the time lapse.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you honourable members for this debate and for the strong support you have shown. i think we can agree that in a fast-changing global economy the skills and know-how of our society are the sole basis for prosperity and for safeguarding our social achievements. today marks an important step on how we prepare for the future of work and ensure that people have the support they need to grow their skills and put them to best use. this is not the only way to address the issues, but it is an important tool. because this new europass will support greater cooperation among stakeholders in the labour market and in the education and training sectors. it reaches out directly to people, offering them new tools and information to truly serve their needs. the commission is looking forward to working closely with stakeholders on delivering on this new europass. we see strong support here in the plenary, i also hope that the vote yesterday will show that. and we hope that, after it has gone to council, it will enter into force before the summer. so again, thank you very much to the two rapporteurs, and the shadow rapporteurs, for the work you have done. it is rare to see such a broad consensus in the plenary for a proposal.
i'm not going to let you down. but good proposals get support.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1295/2013 establishing a creative europe programme (2014-2020) (com (2017) 0385 - c8-0236/2017 - 2017/0163 (cod)) (a8-0369/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union youth orchestra was funded at the request of this house in 1976 and received the patronage of successive presidents of the commission, parliament and heads of state and government. since its creation, the european union youth orchestra’s mission has been to unite europe’s most talented young musicians under internationally renowned conductors in an ensemble that transcends cultural, social, economic, religious and political boundaries in the common pursuit of musical excellence. it demonstrates the vital role of culture and education in strengthening our european identity, a point which was strongly highlighted by eu heads of state and government at an informal summit in gothenburg last year. in 2016, the european union youth orchestra experienced very serious financial difficulties that threatened their existence. since then, the commission and the european parliament, with the support of the council, have worked together to find solutions allowing the orchestra to continue its activities on a sustainable basis. i am proud that we have found a solution to keep the european union youth orchestra alive. you will vote on the amendment to the creative europe programme that will ensure annual funding to the orchestra until the end of this financial programme in 2020. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms costa, and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and their excellent cooperation throughout discussions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to express my support for the proposed amendments to the regulation establishing the creative europe programme, which also allows for the funding of the union youth orchestra until the end of 2020. as mentioned above, the orchestra is a unique initiative that has been enabling young european artists to play, tour and perform internationally at the highest level for many years. to date, nearly 3,000 young musicians have passed through its ranks, performing on four continents. the orchestra's longstanding contribution to the development of musical talent and the promotion of european culture is undeniable. however, the exceptional treatment of this initiative by the eu institutions cannot be at the expense of new artistic projects whose creators also apply for funding from the creative europe programme. for this reason, i believe that the negotiated text of the amendment, which calls for the orchestra to diversify its funding sources and stipulates that the funds are granted exceptionally until the end of 2020, is a good solution, and the document we have developed is a compromise balancing the interests of the different parties. i therefore believe that he deserves the support of the european parliament.
we're not gonna keep you any longer, because i know you have to get to the tv station.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! of course we support this orchestra. we support this initiative. we are also convinced that this mechanism of operation needs to be adjusted. first of all, the orchestra has to take care of its own promotion, better promote itself. he also has to provide alternative financial means. he needs to make sure there's more transparency. in short, it has to do a number of things to continue this funding beyond 2020. on the other hand, i will draw attention to my own experience as minister of culture. we were building i, culture orchestra, a young orchestra made up of belarusians, ukrainians, also moldovans, georgians, etc., so that they could work together, create new values, but above all they functioned in a very tense working regime. these demands made them learn faster, get to know each other better, and the projects they were doing were immediately better promoted. one note to mrs. silvia costa: we haven't agreed on the element of moving from london to another area of possible activity. this should be the subject of possible work by the commission, but we also look forward to your proposal.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european union youth orchestra (euyo), formed in 1976, is made up of young musicians from all the member states and has been representing the european union for 40 years. since its inception, the orchestra has played a significant role in promoting european values, intercultural dialogue, mutual respect and understanding across cultures. eu funding is crucial for the survival of the orchestra. without such support, euyo would not be able to operate and its young musicians would be deprived of a unique opportunity to perform on international stages, to further their careers and to develop their talents under the guidance of renowned conductors. in the past, programmes such as creative europe have supported euyo financially in various ways. for example, for the years 2016 and 2017, the orchestra received a grant to operate as an organisation pursuing an objective of general eu interest or carrying out tasks falling within the eu's cultural policy. i am pleased that, in view of the exceptional nature of this orchestra and its role in building common european values, the commission proposes to recognise it as a 'body designated by the basic act' and thus to ensure its stable funding for the following years of activity.
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a draft council decision terminating the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros (14423/2017 c8-0447/2017 2017/0241 ((nle)) (a8-0058/2018) and the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a draft non-legislative resolution on a draft council decision terminating the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros (14423/2017 c8-0447/2017 2017/0124 ((nle)) (a8-0055/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am concerned about the consequences of the termination of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the union of the comoros, which will have a significant impact on the current difficult social situation in the country. i would point out that cooperation between the european union and the comoros in the fisheries sector has been in place for almost 30 years and that the financial contribution, in particular the sectoral support allocated by the european union, has not sufficiently ensured the development of the comorian fisheries sector. it is therefore appropriate for the european union to contribute to responsible, sustainable fishing in comorian waters, to active scientific and technical cooperation and, above all, to active, concrete assistance in combating illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing and in combating the increased activity of somali pirates. it should be borne in mind that in this type of partnership agreements there are mutual benefits and the added value is the development of infrastructure and the fisheries industry in third countries. in such cases, it is necessary to act with great prudence and foresight and not to allow the economy of third countries to be degraded.
mr president, the european union develops different types of fisheries relationships with third countries. multilateral actions, as well as bilateral agreements, are at the core of such relationships. the common denominator for all of them is responsible and sustainable fishing. unfortunately, this is no longer the case with the union of comoros. their involvement in operations breaching the iuu regulation means that we have to act. we cannot conduct business as usual with countries that do not follow the law or share the same values as we do. the european union is committed to combatting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. we have to do everything in our power to fight against the depletion of fish stocks and the detriment of maritime habitats. such a situation distorts competition and puts honest fishing operators at an unfair disadvantage, as well as weakening coastal communities, especially in developing countries. that being said, i fully support the proposal of the commission. i think it’s time we put our foot down and strongly say no to iuu fishing in places like comoros.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 march 2018.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to congratulate you on your national day. this is indeed very important legislation. we can jointly be proud of it. we worked hard together, and it is – as the two rapporteurs have said – the clear evidence of the value-based trade agenda. it is complex and difficult, so we need to have an integrated approach. i appreciate this possibility to update you on what we are doing to prepare for the full implementation of this. the regulation stipulates that the requirement of eu importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold shall apply as from january 2021, so that companies, member states and the commission can efficiently prepare. there are a series of actions explicitly set out in the regulation, and we are busy finalising them. for instance, the guidance to help companies on the identification of conflict-affected and high-risk areas and other supply-chain risks they may consider in their due diligence process. we are also preparing guidance for the member states’ competent authorities in their upcoming enforcement activities, in particular, the so-called ex-post checks on importers and a delegated regulation on the methodology that the commission will use to recognise and validate industry due diligence schemes, which would be instrumental in ensuring that the regulation is operational. these initiatives are well advanced and they should be adopted already in the first half of this year. in the subsequent step, building on these initiatives, the commission will adopt and implement the act establishing a list of global responsible smelters and refiners and find a first indicative non-exhaustive list of conflict-affected and high-risk areas from external expertise already next year, which is well in advance of the deadline. in addition to the initiatives explicitly mentioned in the regulation, we are also advancing the accompanying measures, and we are fully committed to honour the promises of a more political nature that we made during the negotiations on this regulation. in this regard, i would like to emphasise four work streams that we know are important for you. firstly, the measures to support smes: both of the honourable rapporteurs mentioned the oral question put, to support smes in their efforts to implement policies for responsible sourcing of minerals. in january this year, the commission finalised our study on the support system for sme supply chain due diligence. on this basis, by the end of next year the commission will deliver an online tool designed to help smes in their due diligence efforts. this will be available to smes in the eu that want to develop and implement due diligence of mineral supply chains, irrespective of whether they have the obligation or not under the regulation. particular attention will be paid to the competitiveness aspect of smes applying due diligence. of particular relevance to smes will be the translation of the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) guidance into all eu languages, which the commission will provide as early as the spring of this year. secondly, the measures to foster uptake of responsible sourcing policies among downstream companies. companies producing goods, including tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, but which do not themselves import the metals and minerals to the eu, do not have legal obligations under the regulation. nevertheless, it is important that also these so-called downstream companies consider responsible sourcing as far as possible. last year, the commission published non-binding guidelines on how to implement the directive on non-financial reporting, explaining that companies are expected to disclose relevant information, in particular on conflict mineral supply chain due diligence. these include notably companies that are active in the downstream. later this year, we will also make available an online transparency platform where downstream companies can showcase their work on due diligence and exchange best practices. this transparency exercise would be very much welcomed by civil society organisations. in addition, the aforementioned efforts to support smes will also be available to downstream companies. thirdly, the measures taken to provide the necessary funding for projects on the ground, i would like to highlight a few. we have support to the project promoting responsible supply chains in the area of conflict minerals, which was approved in december 2017. it will foster cooperation between producer and consumer countries on responsible sourcing of minerals through the european partnership on responsible minerals. that is eur 5.4 million. we have also supported the oecd’s important work on due diligence and responsible sourcing to the tune of eur 4 million for the period 2014-2019. we have supported the international conference on the great lakes region for regional initiatives against the illegal exploitation of natural resources. that is eur 3 million that we paid before, with an indicative amount of a further eur 3 million for the next stage of the initiative. we also provide support to artisanal and small-scale gold and diamond mining in burkina faso, côte d’ivoire and the central african republic, to the tune of around eur 4 million. we are considering projects in a number of african countries. we have a maximum here of eur 4 million. these important financial efforts are in line with the commitment i made to you, together with my colleague, commissioner mimica, and of course vice-president mogherini, in a letter that we sent to you in march 2015. moreover, in implementing these measures, the commission and the external action service attach great value to the multi-stakeholder approach. so we are working closely with industry and civil society. fourthly and finally, i would like to stress the important work we have to encourage third-country producers and consumers of minerals and metals to adopt and implement policies for the responsible sourcing of minerals based on the oecd guidelines. our efforts here are based on three pillars: firstly, we have senior-level technical dialogues that have been carried out over the last two years with major economies in countries of special relevance. this includes, for instance, china, india, malaysia, thailand, indonesia and the united arab emirates. in this regard, our outreach, together with the oecd secretariat, has delivered tangible results in china, where they have adopted guidelines on the responsible sourcing of minerals, and also in india, where there have been various initiatives launched on the responsible sourcing of gold, in particular. secondly, there are proposals to include references to responsible sourcing of minerals based on the oecd guidelines in our free-trade agreements, for instance with mexico. thirdly, substantial support, including funding, for the oecd’s work on the responsible sourcing including promotion and awareness-raising across the globe in producing and consuming countries alike. you can see that we have worked a lot since we concluded our common work here. many strands of work, an integrated approach that can deliver but also inspire similar initiatives in other important markets. thank you again for the opportunity to discuss this with you.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. happy national day to you, madam! commissioner, good day to you! we were discussing other matters here last night, so i appreciate you being with us so early in the morning. as rapporteur for the committee on development for the opinion on the conflict minerals regulation, i called for the introduction of accompanying measures to promote and monitor due diligence in the mineral supply chain in the countries of origin. from the point of view of our committee, this is very important. the commission has also received a number of comments from interested parties, including from the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the commissioner has already mentioned plans and connections. does the commission intend to present additional accompanying measures covering all other areas in this communication? and i'm going to ask a more interesting question about the timeline: what will it look like over time? you've already said that there's a budget, but will there be any connections? the action plan mentions interesting synergies with the european external investment plan. what exactly are the synergies and how will they be linked? finally, are there any accompanying measures financed by instruments other than the development cooperation instrument?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the transition of the european transport sector to alternative fuels is a process that is already underway. while the process is still somewhat chaotic and driven mainly by the energy of its biggest enthusiasts and some member states, it is difficult not to appreciate the steady progress. the key to success in promoting green transport is undoubtedly the availability of terminals and places where such alternative fuels can be refuelled or loaded, whether it is electricity, gas or hydrogen. the commission's action plan rightly identified the main challenges we face: firstly, adapting existing and still under construction ten-t components to the needs of alternative fuel users, and secondly, developing the necessary infrastructure in suburban areas where progress is slow. we must not forget that the first step is to get the individual users off the combustion cars. the second step, perhaps the more important, is to switch to alternative fuels in the road freight sector. in this case, access to the appropriate infrastructure is already closely linked to the profitability and price of such services. unfortunately, the problem is that this issue was not actually addressed in the document in question.
madam president! i would like to thank the commissioner very warmly for his information, because today's debate on the alternative fuels infrastructure action plan must stimulate - or should stimulate - the development of cars powered by natural gas, hydrogen or electricity from the grid, and thus also help us in the fight against air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. these are challenges for member states, as well as for local governments, businesses and other stakeholders, without which it is impossible to implement it. however, this is easiest to do at the municipal level, where there is a large amount of transportation that is primarily aimed at reducing emissions, if clean technologies are used in municipal vehicles. financial support for infrastructure development, which can be stimulated by public procurement, is also important. i welcome the declaration of eight hundred million. and one last thing: i think it's very closely linked to the clean vehicles directive. here the commission has gone in a very good direction and i think that these objectives should be further simplified.
madam president! the development of alternative fuels infrastructure is an important step towards reducing co2 emissions. we should certainly support it, but we should also be aware of other alternative fuels. when we talk about this issue, we should keep two things in mind: firstly, as already mentioned, there are big disproportions in infrastructure (for example, cyprus has only 35 charging stations, bulgaria 100, poland 600 and they are mainly in the centres of big cities, and in small austria there are 4 thousand, so we see how big the disproportion is). secondly, we must not forget that the visegrad countries (poland and slovakia) have many traditional automotive production plants, for example, for combustion engines, combustion vehicles, components for their production, etc., which provide jobs for many of their inhabitants. with hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake, time and additional resources are needed to retrain workers to prevent a sharp increase in unemployment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the situation in the maldives remains a source of concern. it has continued to deteriorate since our last debate. the european union remains mobilised and has intensified its diplomatic actions to support democracy and the rule of law in the maldives. the country is an important partner for the european union in the fight against climate change. as current chair of the alliance of small island states, the maldives plays an important role in support of the paris agreement, and we are interested in deepening our cooperation in this field. at the same time, eu member states are playing an active part in the development of tourism in the maldives. in 2017, more than 645 000 tourists – almost 50% of visitors to the maldives – came from europe. we are also interested in developing cooperation on counter-terrorism and on countering violent extremism with the maldives. however, the eu has closely followed the recent deterioration of the situation in the maldives and immediately informed the authorities of its concerns. a statement was issued on 6 february in reaction to the declaration of the state of emergency by the maldivian president. our eu ambassador was there to deliver an eu demarche from 19-21 february. he pressed for the restoration of the functioning of the parliament, called for an immediate lifting of the state of emergency and a return to constitutional normality, respect for constitutionally-guaranteed rights and the rule of law, and the immediate release of political prisoners. he also encouraged the un-facilitated dialogue to allow for a political solution for the preparation of credible, inclusive and transparent presidential elections. upon my proposal, the council adopted conclusions on the maldives on 26 february. it was the first time, and it sent a strong political signal in support of the return to constitutional rule of the maldivian authorities and people. the situation is not in accordance with the principle of democratic rule and separation of powers, and if this situation does not improve, the council may consider targeted measures. the council underlined that the parliament and the judiciary should be enabled to return to their normal functioning, in accordance with the constitution, and called for the immediate lifting of the state of emergency and restoration of all constitutionally guaranteed rights. the council condemned politically motivated arrests and called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. since the adoption of the conclusions, the situation has not yet improved. at the request of president yameen, the parliament renewed, on 20 february, the state of emergency for an additional 30 days. a number of fundamental constitutional rights are still suspended. to date, there has been no release of political prisoners, and former president gayoom, who is 81 years old, has not been released from house arrest. we commend the deployment of an electoral follow-up mission, led by honourable member of the european parliament, eduard kukan, in january 2018, which carried out an assessment of the implementation of the recommendations of the 2014 eu electoral observation mission. we are looking forward to mr kukan’s report and call for the competent maldivian authorities to fully consider his conclusions, with a view to organising credible, transparent and inclusive elections. it is essential to restore constitutionally guaranteed rights and lift the state of emergency, as well as to respect and protect the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression and the right to fair trial. the eu encourages all stakeholders to work with the un to facilitate such a dialogue, and the eu is ready to support un facilitation. we will continue to closely follow the evolution of the situation, with a view to deciding on the next steps.
in writing. young, only ten years old, maldivian democracy is currently experiencing a huge crisis. it should be stressed, however, that this crisis is not just the last few weeks, which are undoubtedly the most spectacular and the most escalating. the origins of the problems go back several years, when president yameen consolidated his authoritarian rule by banning peaceful demonstrations, arresting political opponents and shutting down independent media. i therefore believe that the european union must be uncompromising in its demand for the return of the rule of law and a genuine separation of powers and respect for human rights. to this end, the full range of tools available to us should be used, including the possible suspension of financial assistance to the maldives and sanctions against specific individuals. we also need to keep a close eye on the upcoming presidential election - not just in terms of the process itself, but also the process of nominating candidates, as there are legitimate concerns that some of president yameen's opponents will not be allowed to run in the election.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! we are very concerned about the situation in sudan. human rights in sudan are notoriously violated. due to human rights violations, a very difficult economic situation, and rising prices, protests broke out earlier this year, in which dozens of people were killed. dozens of people were injured. hundreds of people were arrested, opposition leaders, journalists, students. they are being held in prisons without charge or trial. the sakharov prize laureate salih mahmoud osman, a human rights defender, has been arrested. we therefore wish to condemn in the strongest terms the violence of the sudanese regime against peaceful protesters and call on the sudanese authorities to respect and protect fundamental human rights, including the rights of national, ethnic and religious minorities. the crisis that sudan is in, both economic and political, will not end until basic human rights are violated. and we, as the european union, are giving so much money to sudan that we have the instruments to influence the sudanese regime.
the author. the case of salih mahmoud osman, as well as examples of the use of force against peaceful protesters, restrictions on freedom of speech and religion, and repression of journalists, are evidence of the ongoing rule of law crisis in sudan. torture of detainees, lack of information on the whereabouts of salih osman and other activists, and denial of access to lawyers and family are serious abuses and violations of international standards. as you know, some of the human rights defenders were released from detention in february. however, the security services' forcible conditioning of the release of the remaining detainees and their guarantee that they will not participate in further peaceful protests is contrary to sudan's international human rights obligations. i therefore call for the immediate release of salih mahmoud osman, a lawyer and sakharov prize laureate, and dozens of other activists who are being detained for their legal and peaceful work in defence of human rights and democracy in sudan.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the systematic repression of the democratic opposition and the violation of human rights by the sudanese authorities require a response from the international community. the imprisonment of salih mahmoud osman is a clear example, but unfortunately, it is just one of many instances of the sudanese government's use of violence. more than 140 other human rights and opposition activists were also detained as a result of the january protests. the arrests were made with force. we're also getting reports of torture being used on detainees. dialogue with the sudanese authorities is needed, but it must be more decisive. however, i believe that when they ignore the recommendations of the international community, such as by rejecting the un recommendations in may 2016, we should first of all focus our support on local human rights defenders and civil society. i believe that the european union must support the united nations and the african union in this field.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. europe should be a light to the world. and it's good that today we're talking about these terrible cases of so-called mercy killings of disabled children in uganda. and i hope that we can all agree on this issue and pass a resolution that mobilizes the ugandan authorities to take action. the question is, does this remind us of something, or do we see similar things in our own lives? after all, a few months ago, the authorities of one of our largest countries, france, decided that an advertisement showing happy young people with down syndrome should not be considered a social advertisement. why would you do that? because, like that pagan superstition, it's a bad feeling, it's a bad thing to see. let's ask ourselves a simple question: has the core of darkness not moved to our old europe?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the appropriations in the performance reserve are a very important tool to encourage member states to implement projects financed by the european regional development fund and the european social fund more quickly and efficiently. the rules for using this reserve should be clear and member states should be informed of its activation at a time that allows the best use of the funds. the commission should allow member states to mobilise the performance reserve, taking into account the fact that a significant part of the programmes is implemented in advance. this implies the need to adjust the date of the review of the results on the achievement of the milestones on which the mobilisation of these measures depends. in may 2017, the european parliament stated unequivocally that the current time lag between the fulfilment of the conditions and the release of the execution reserve is too long, limiting its effectiveness and efficiency. this problem is particularly evident now that the end of the current budgetary perspective is approaching and we are shaping the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. i would like to hear a clear statement from the commission on this matter and a precise answer to the question from the committee on regional development.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. so far, there have been discussions of this kind before, there have been discussions of this kind on the budget, but not this year. for some reason, that discussion did not take place that year. budgetary resolutions are the most important resolutions of the european parliament, and the people in europe whose money we take away sometimes want to know what our decisions are about, why we make those decisions, and so on. so it is obvious and entirely in line with the union's rules, with the spirit of the european union, that this matter should be transparent and for the sake of budgetary transparency, for the sake of transparency in our behaviour, we ask that this be put on the agenda for thursday. i hope a few extra minutes of your busy time won't interfere with such an important matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the european union is a leader in its efforts to implement the paris agreement. we have adopted the eu ets, we are finalising the non-eu ets and lulucf sectors. we have set ambitious targets to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030. but remember that the eu is only responsible for about 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. we should therefore focus our efforts on ensuring that the commitments made at cop 21 in paris are also fulfilled by other countries. we need to think and act globally. we should prepare well for the cop 24 conference in katowice. our priority should be to adopt the full package implementing the paris agreement. we should speak with one voice in the international arena. to achieve these goals, we need to build a broad coalition, with countries outside the european union joining in. this is a key issue, as the implementation of the paris agreement will depend on the final shape of the package.
mr. chairman, please! i've listened to the debate, so i don't have to repeat the arguments for or the comments or the compliments or the objections. i'll just say one thing that's crucial to me, which has been overlooked. we need to make much more use of the younger generation, of ngos, of the genuine enthusiasm of those who protect green spaces, forests, gardens, parks - not only in europe but also around the world. let us try to improve the channels of communication with this younger generation, because there is great value in them, in fighting for the very elements that are contained in this report.
agriculture and forestry, in addition to having a significant potential to absorb emissions, also have a number of social and economic functions that need to be recognised in the context of the union's climate policy. therefore, emissions reduction actions based on these sectors must take into account their paramount role in ensuring adequate food and energy security on our continent. it should also be borne in mind that emissions from agriculture in the union have fallen by almost a quarter compared with 1990. it is also necessary to take into account the significant differences in the level of afforestation in the member states and to take due account of the climate action taken by some countries in the past.
in writing. i do not support the gerbrandy report because i do not support the speculative eu ets for industry and energy. these manufacturing and energy sectors need to make significant efficiency adjustment changes in order to meet the climate target set at cop 21 in paris. the draft directive was wrongly and uncritically referred from the outset to the envi committee, rather than to the itre committee, which could only form an opinion on the matter. i would remind you that the extremely difficult intra-eu negotiations on the revision of the eu ets directives have only recently been concluded, and the tripartite negotiations on the winter package, in particular on energy efficiency and renewable energy, are not yet concluded. the paris agreement did not provide for an increase in the contribution of the member states, but only for its communication or updating, and it is for the member states to decide whether to implement the recommendations. i am not in favour of opening up and increasing the union contribution, in the form of nationally determined contributions, to 40% in 2030. i believe that excessive ambition to reduce co2 emissions could have a negative impact on the work on the adoption at cop 24 in katowice of the paris agreement implementation package, which is the main objective of my country as the host of this conference.
in writing. preventing dangerous climate change is one of the eu's priorities. it takes a wide range of initiatives to protect the natural environment in which we live every day. we all want to breathe clean air that will keep us fit and healthy. in the context of today's debate and the two reports on greenhouse gas emissions, we must remember that the eu's ambitious targets must be accompanied by a balance of power between member states. the commission should therefore adopt a position that will lead to the implementation of the paris agreement in a balanced and comprehensive manner and prevent further climate change. we must remember the important role of forests, which are also responsible for reducing co2 emissions, but we must not forget that the forestry sector must meet the demand for wood and that its functioning depends on the daily activities of operators relying on resources obtained from forestry. effective action to combat climate change should therefore include comprehensive actions that enable us to integrate economic and climate policies, as well as actions that allow for the efficient implementation of previously adopted legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i support the goals of a circular economy. however, throughout the legislative process, i had doubts about the methodology of the targeting. it is incomprehensible to me that poland has not been included in the group of countries that have a guaranteed possibility of a five-year longer period to reach the 60% recycling target as, for example, estonia, greece, croatia. poland, which recycled 20% of municipal waste in 2012, was joined by germany, which recycled 64%, austria, 59% and belgium, 57%. so, in fact, it's in a group of countries that are already meeting the eu's 2030 target today. of course, poland will make every effort to achieve the objectives, but i believe that the directives should be adapted to the realities of the member states. therefore, my delegation will abstain from voting on certain elements of this package.
respecting resources, using them efficiently and reducing waste are the main objectives of a circular economy. these ambitious targets are set out in the package. but first, it should be emphasised that our main objective should be to prevent waste or to extend the life of products. the closed loop is of particular importance for the bioeconomy and renewable bio-based raw materials, including bio-waste, including food waste. but there are other challenges ahead. the future of transport is one example (i am the rapporteur for the promotion of clean vehicles, amongst others) and here too we need to look for synergies with the new technologies being introduced. one of these solutions is to promote alternative energy sources in the transport sector, such as biomethane, a fuel obtained from the recycling of organic waste. if we want to develop electromobility, we need to invest in research into a new type of battery that is produced in a sustainable way and is also recyclable.
madam president! commissioner frans timmermans said that the biggest problem we have is with the execution of everything we stand for. he told the truth, he was de facto right on the money. but i would add that we have another problem, the problem of time. we're very slow to react to a dynamic situation. we are not keeping up with the reduction in the dumping of hazardous waste, the production of hazardous waste and the lack of responsibility for the production of hazardous waste. we also have a big problem with fiscal issues, for example, it's easier to throw food away than to give it away because it's taxed. we must respond much more quickly to the challenges that the rapidly changing world of civilization poses to us. please note: more than three years of negotiations on the package we all agreed on is far too long.
the author. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: digitalisation, the internet, automation and robotics are phenomena that have fundamentally changed and continue to change both the labour market and the daily lives of all of us. the way of communication is changing, the content of the professions being practised is changing, the mobility of many professions is increasing, access to services is increasing, the flexibility of work organisation is increasing. this digital revolution is creating new job opportunities for women too, but also new ways of reconciling work and family life. it offers hope for reducing the disparity in the treatment of women and men. the commission forecasts that the european digital economy will require advanced and very specific skills that are currently more readily available to men than to women. i am referring to the gender digital divide, which results in lower participation of women in sectors requiring digital skills. these differences - sometimes of several, sometimes of tens ofpercent - have a significant impact on women's opportunities to fulfil their potential and participate in high-paying occupations and growing sectors of the economy. only 9% of programmers are women, only 19% of senior managers in ict and communications are women, compared to 45% in other service sectors. this low participation of women in the fastest growing and best-paid professions is a manifestation of sectoral segregation, which is the result of persistent gender stereotypes blocking appropriate educational and career pathways for girls and women with mathematical and natural talent. it's a huge waste of talent that reduces the quality of women's lives, but it also has real economic costs. it is estimated that an equal share of women and men in the sector would add eur 9 billion per year to the eu's gdp. this and related sectors are characterised by a huge and growing shortage of workers. it could be reduced by integrating educated women into the market, who are very much underrepresented compared to men. digitalisation and the internet also make it easier to set up and operate micro-enterprises flexibly. this is particularly important for women who are mothers and therefore have time and organisation constraints or for women who live far from urban centres where the number of potential clients is small. the internet opens up markets, reduces costs, makes it possible to sell products or services, even with much less infrastructure or financial backing. it also enables remote work and, thanks to new means of communication, facilitates, for example, the building of reinforcing professional networks of experts. this is all very important. we also know that increasing the number of women in these high-paying, attractive sectors could help close the wage and pension gaps, because women would simply earn more. but the potential benefits that we would or will experience from the internet will only happen if we remove the barriers that prevent women from accessing both the high-tech professions themselves and the fair pathway to advancement within those sectors and professions. i'm not going to let you down. in order to leverage the benefits of digitalisation into equity policies, we must also be aware of the risks. the internet facilitates hate speech and other forms of cyber violence, including sexual violence, and online work and the mobility provided by new technologies can be a trap of perpetual availability and multiple burden on women. it is therefore necessary that the legal provisions protecting women against harmful gender stereotypes and violence also apply to similar situations in the digital world and that work on the internet is adequately protected by provisions guaranteeing time for rest, holidays and privacy. action is also needed in the field of education to ensure that girls are encouraged to pursue science and nature subjects on an equal footing with boys and that their educational paths lead to studies that qualify them for the most attractive occupations. in this context, we welcome the commission's actions to date to promote the integration and participation of women in the information society. at the same time, we call on the commission to prioritise the promotion of women's employment in the ict sector, the fight against gender stereotypes and the promotion of gender equality at all stages of education, including lifelong learning. i would also like to ask the commissioner what action the commission is taking to solve the problems raised here.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the digital transformation has fundamentally changed the way people access information, the way they communicate, the way they study, the way they work. the information society has enormous potential in terms of wealth creation and access to knowledge. and so we should use the potential that this has to empower women economically and socially. the second issue we're discussing today is gender equality in the media sector. although more women than men study journalism and information, the percentage of women employed in this sector remains steady at around 40%. women still struggle with the glass ceiling problem in the media. the report also highlights the problem of cyber-violence against women and girls. i think the media needs to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work immediately. it's also time to end the sexualization of the image of women and girls.
this report and this discussion is some kind of nightmarish misunderstanding. what you're saying here and what you're writing in your report is outrageous sexism. you're pushing gender as the hiring criterion, not competence. stop looking through the shutters of strangers, because that's not worthy of a member of the european parliament. it is not your business whether a man or a woman is employed in a particular position, and whom you want to employ in your own company. freedom, including economic freedom, is not about doing what you think is right, but about accepting that people sometimes do things that you don't think are right and that you may regret, but that's not your business. if you have a better idea of hiring policy, start your own companies, hire them according to any criteria and prove that it works in practice. if this is the case, then you will be eliminating this archaic competition, which applies different, and in your opinion, inappropriate, criteria for recruitment. but as long as you're not paying for the other people to do it, don't get involved, because they're the ones who hire who they want at their own expense, at their own risk. if your ideas and your hiring policies are going to cause them a loss, you're not going to be adding to their business because of it, so don't get involved. no one cares whether you think there should be more or fewer women in the media, because that's just your arbitrary, unsupported belief.
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union, enshrined in the treaties on the functioning of the eu. this principle states that in all its activities the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women. this principle also applies to the mass media. the fourth world conference on women recognised the relationship between women and the media as essential to achieving gender equality and set two strategic objectives, namely: to increase the participation of women in the expression of opinion, in decision-making processes and to provide them with greater opportunities in this regard through the media and new communication technologies, and to promote a balanced and non-stereotyped representation of women in the media. member states are therefore invited to focus, together with equality bodies, on the implementation of existing gender equality legislation and to encourage regulatory authorities to pay attention to the presence and improvement of women and to stereotype-free media content. it is also important to encourage member states to carry out regular checks in these areas and, if necessary, to develop legislation on media content free of stereotypes. furthermore, further research on the presence of women in senior positions in the media is encouraged.
madam president! i too would like to congratulate my colleague, mr guerrero, on the preparation of this report. it is a careful review of the use of the eu's foreign policy tools, which contribute to reducing poverty and reducing the causes of instability in partner countries. the report also contains a number of proposals and recommendations for the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. the positive assessment of the compatibility of the implementation of these instruments to date with the sustainable development goals and the new european consensus on development is an important element of the report. unfortunately, the number of crises and natural disasters is increasing globally, which puts these instruments under considerable financial pressure and new ad hoc mechanisms such as trust funds lack transparency. external financing instruments after 2020 should continue to allow for the linking of multiannual geographical and thematic programmes to allow for development actions at different scales. in this context, promoting regional cooperation and the integration of partner countries is also of great importance. it is equally important to provide comprehensive support to countries affected by poverty and instability through complementary humanitarian and development actions, while maintaining separate instruments for development and humanitarian aid beyond 2020.
in writing. in human nutrition, protein is an essential and indispensable component of nutrition, as is energy , which can be supplied in the form of plant or animal protein. the cultivation of high-protein crops could bring a number of environmental benefits and increasing the production of high-protein crops could make an important contribution to the sustainable development of the european food and agriculture sector. the report aims to discuss the benefits of high-protein crops and how to increase the eu's self-sufficiency, to prepare a european strategy to promote high-protein crops and to consider how the cap could contribute to increasing the cultivation and use of high-protein crops. it should be noted that the eu suffers from a significant deficit of plant proteins which is dependent on imported feed from third countries, and this situation has not changed despite declared intentions and initiatives in this regard for more than 15 years and despite the use of by-products from the production of biofuels in feed materials. the situation in the eu with regard to imports of plant proteins from south america is not sustainable and indicates that we should take more vigorous action, in particular to make these imports more sustainable. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of this report, but i would like to emphasize that i am against the cultivation of genetically modified high-protein crops and against the production of genetically modified food.
madam president! the problem of debt stability in developing countries is a highly complex issue that has been raised many times at united nations conferences on financing for development. it is worth noting that the main forum for discussion on sovereign debt restructuring remains the international monetary fund, which exercises considerable influence over the european union and its member states. however, the key issue that the rapporteur has mentioned for a lasting improvement in the creditworthiness of developing countries is the issue of accountability. this is the responsibility of the lenders to developing countries, and the great responsibility of the borrowers, the countries that receive the loans. but our group cannot support certain provisions in this report which call for the allocation of own resources, such as the tax on foreign exchange transactions and the tax on financial transactions, to finance the debt of developing countries. we believe that tax and fiscal policy is a matter for the member states and that it is up to them to decide how they shape that policy.
member of the commission. – madam president, first and foremost i would like to commend our dear colleague, rapporteur jouland, and the committee on regional development on this excellent report, and i would like very much to thank all of you. you have underlined the importance of this policy for improving the lives of millions of people in the european union. this report captures the very essence of what cohesion policy has helped to achieve so far and what is yet to be achieved. in this regard, your analysis on the 7th cohesion report is to the point. i also welcome the very concrete recommendations on the way forward after 2020. they are in line with many of our own beliefs. in particular, you state very assertively that the coverage of all eu regions is a red line for the european parliament, and you know very well that i could not agree more with you, and i praise this ambitious approach – ambitious yet realistic. as evidenced in the 7th cohesion report, regional disparities remain important, and the needs are clearly not limited to the poorest regions, as you clearly said. indeed, pockets of poverty are observed in all kinds of regions, notably in urban areas, where the average living standard is very high. but at the same time we have very poor pockets – very poor communities. moreover, several middle-income regions still lack capacity to fully benefit from the eu integration process. they have failed to move to higher-value-added activities. europe has probably never needed solidarity and equality more than today. phenomena such as globalisation, climate change, terrorism and social exclusion are exerting polarising forces inside our european union. the temptation of isolation is growing, and our european project is at risk. we have to be honest and recognise this. the need to continue cementing our union is very important, and clearly the best answer post-2020 is a strong cohesion policy for our regions, and in the meantime the commission is preparing the ground, notably by strengthening smart specialisation strategies. i believe this innovative and cooperative approach to policy-making is the best way to help regions find their competitive niche and become resilient. it is very important. i am so glad to see that you also call for an intensification of smart specialisation strategies. in this context, your report mentions the pilot actions we have launched to help regions in industrial transition build their strategies for their regional transformation. this should be ready by the end of 2018, and i remain at your disposal to update you on the progress we have made as soon as we get the first results. i would like to conclude by talking about the implementation of cohesion policy, which is very important. we share the view that radical simplification and faster delivery of results are needed. the options we are working on are largely in line with those proposed in your report, such as taking account of the different administrative capacities across member states; a single set of rules; stronger synergies with other eu instruments; and a revised allocation system to better reflect the variety of challenges faced by eu territories. we all know that the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework is just around the corner. my only concern is that cohesion policy remains the main investment policy for the european union, that it carries on supporting growth and improving the conditions of investment. knowing our common aspirations, i am sure that we will make our way through the negotiations with good cooperation and constructiveness.
in writing. the seventh cohesion report has provided us with a lot of good evidence that cohesion policy is having a positive impact on all european regions, both the less developed and the more developed. but on the other hand, it has pointed to many of the problems that remain, and that we have yet to solve. i believe that a clear, well-targeted and accessible cohesion policy should be the backbone of eu investment. it is the tool that best meets the challenges of infrastructure investment, environmental investment, investment in human capital, entrepreneurship and public administration reform. however, in order to continue to fulfil its role beyond 2020, it needs to have a strong position in the union budget. it is therefore essential to maintain it at at least at the same financial level as in 2014-2020. it is also essential to simplify the policy considerably so that potential beneficiaries have easy access to funding.
in writing. i think everyone will agree that cohesion policy has played an important role in overcoming the economic crisis. the commission's cohesion report shows, however, that there are some weaknesses in the policy that need to be addressed. in 2015, almost a quarter of europeans were considered to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. given the data on youth unemployment and the number of working people living in poverty, the prospects for a rapid improvement are slim. the union is only as strong as its weakest link. the indicator of the union's well-being will therefore not be average gdp growth but real results in the fight against poverty. this fight must be based on long-term investment, not on ad hoc subsidies, and that is the cohesion policy of the union. i do not see any way of cutting cohesion policy. we are also seeing a new phenomenon of increasing disparities within regions and of relatively rich regions becoming poverty enclaves. some territories have fallen into the middle-income trap. the indicators to be taken into account for the purpose of allocating resources should therefore be refined in addition to the level of gdp per capita. they must be flexible, with a focus on the overall unemployment rate and the youth unemployment rate. the plans to integrate the esf into the proposed social investment fund pose a significant threat to the integrity of cohesion policy. the esf has an undeniable territorial dimension and should therefore remain an integral part of cohesion policy.
in writing. i would like to congratulate marc joulaud on his report. i am very pleased that the report highlights the potential for further investment in culture, education, cultural heritage, youth and sport to create jobs, generate economic growth and improve social cohesion. this is particularly important for less developed regions and rural areas. i also believe that it is crucial to support and strengthen the development strategies of the cultural and creative sectors, which are closely linked to innovation and creativity. i hope that in the future the european commission will take greater account of the role of culture, education, youth and sport in strengthening cohesion in the union and will analyse in detail the impact of specific projects in these areas. this will allow for better use of potential synergies between the european structural and investment funds.
madam president! eight years ago, a tragic accident near smolensk, russia, killed the polish president and 85 members of the polish elite. he was flying to russia to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the murder of about 15,000 polish officers and policemen by soviet russia in 1940. to this day, the plane crash remains unsolved. the russians have not given poland the wreckage of the tu-154 or the black boxes. i think the international public should put pressure on russia to finally settle this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of people took part yesterday in a march for the sanctity of life in warsaw, szczecin and other cities in poland. it was not organized by the government or any other political force. it was simply an expression of the moral convictions of polish society. it would be good if everyone realized this, especially those in this chamber who attack polish society for its actions in favour of the rights of the weakest to life.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, democracy, the rule of law and european fundamental values cannot be taken for granted. they need active cultivation. a vibrant civil society is best suited to strengthening these values and preventing democracy from eroding. however, the performance of these tasks needs access to funding. this is why it is vital that we invest our resources in a strong civil society for the sake of our fundamental values and the future of the european project. this is what the proposed european values instrument is all about. its focus is on grassroots civil society actors who operate at local and national level, where european values are confronted with significant challenges across europe. so far, the eu has not developed adequate instruments to this end. we know what the european crucial values are and have discussed them many times. what is also key is to open the space for dialogue between various pluralistic organisations with their views on the civic future of europe. it is the best background to practise democracy, to give citizens a real opportunity to participate in democracy. this is the only way to keep and develop democracy in europe, especially in the era of post-truth politics. this instrument should be user-friendly, transparent, accountable, responsive to urgent needs and easily accessible to local civic actors. only in this way will it bring added value. i strongly hope that the commission will approve the idea and that adequate resources will be allocated to the european values instrument in the next budget.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the idea that the authorities of a country, but also the authorities of the european union, should finance support for their policies would be an open commitment to the distortion of public opinion, and therefore a denial of the freedoms on which public opinion and democracy should be based. unfortunately, such fears may be justified, since the european union authorities have so often expressed concern or criticism regarding the election results in austria, italy, hungary. it is therefore possible that those who run our union are afraid of the outcome of another democratic general election, so it is time to remind you once again: the european union is a union of our countries, not of your ideology. of course, if this mechanism is established, we will judge it by its fruits, we will verify whether it really serves everyone, but the intentions with which it is created raise serious, legitimate concerns.
mr. chairman, mr. president, i have to go. welcome to the club. you mentioned the european university. i have a proposal, let's set up a european university here in this building, in the european parliament. we will have the requisite, one seat of the european parliament in brussels and an additional seat in luxembourg. secondly, you spoke of european sovereignty. is the issue of posted workers, which emmanuel macron is familiar with, an expression of european sovereignty or is it simply an expression of the interests and advantages of the richer countries over the less rich? our community has both rich countries and less rich countries. i am afraid that is not a sign of european sovereignty.
in writing. i highly value france's role and contribution to international security and peace. i support the intervention of a coalition of the united states, the united kingdom and france to prevent the further use of chemical weapons by the regime of bashar al-assad. i would also like to refer to the polish issues. according to the world economic forum's global report, my country achieved the highest competitiveness index this year since the beginning of the transition. this is appreciated by entrepreneurs in both poland and france. our economic relations are deeply rooted in a long-standing tradition. the best scenario for europe would be to transfer these experiences to the multilateral level, including the uk after brexit. economic relations must be win-win, free of barriers and prejudices, based on mutual respect, and not - as president macron rightly pointed out - on lectures and lectures.
in writing. i would like to take this unique opportunity to express my deep concern about the state of fundamental rights in your state. the debate format does not allow me to give examples, so i will only mention one, which is nevertheless particularly emblematic. it is the invention of the crime of obstructing abortion, which provides for a prison sentence for online statements, constitutes an open attempt to intimidate non-governmental organizations that defend the lives of the weakest, as well as an attack on freedom of expression. such freedom-destroying regulations cannot be justified in any way, they simply have to be repealed as soon as possible.
in writing. in the context of the debate on the future of europe, i draw particular attention to the issue of modernising education in the union and enhancing the role of education at european level, which is essential for achieving europe's economic and social objectives and for building its future. i welcome president macron's approach to strengthening eu cooperation in education. educating future generations so that they are able to face the challenges of the modern world should be a goal that unites us all, regardless of political choices. the demographic and social challenges facing europe, labour market requirements, new technologies and personal educational preferences and needs are determining the direction of change in education. it is important that education systems, taking into account the above factors, offer not only high-quality knowledge but also an appropriate pool of competences, including the key competences of the 21st century, namely the ability to learn effectively throughout life.
i understand that all interested parties have written down the date, the venue and that anyone who is able to attend will be able to attend.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
(off micro comment from mr verhofstadt) mr verhofstadt, if you had spoken for a shorter time, you would have saved two minutes. it is the privilege of the rapporteur to take two minutes. (applause)
since this is a formal motion, i'm putting mr. castaldo's motion to the vote. (parliament rejected the request)
i hereby close the vote.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr. chairman, please! the report on gender equality in the media contains a number of proposals that are difficult to accept, which is why i voted against. the media has a huge impact on a society in which women have been doing the same jobs and occupying the same positions as men for years, including positions of particular responsibility and stress, such as management, where they are represented by up to 40%, although they should not do so because of their different psychophysical characteristics. it is the liberal media, by promoting the need to be forever young and attractive, that contributes to the breakdown of family life and the abandonment of motherhood, which for many women is a basic vocation. overworking, on the other hand, leads to the burden on women, which leads to aggression and diseases, as does the forced paternity leave and the sending of women to work. therefore, the protection of women should be a priority, and they can be helped by including maternity leave in working hours or by receiving pensions or equivalent benefits when they decide to raise children, as the polish government, which values the family and women, has recently proposed.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report on gender equality in the media sector not because we libertarians have anything against it, against equality or equality even. we have no problem with women earning the same or more than men. this resolution, on the other hand, is aimed at forcing such solutions. it is a matter for two people to decide how much they want to pay each other, not for members of the european parliament to lecture others on the subject. this resolution is shameful because it refers to the use of coercion in a field where it has no place, in the field of contractual relations. the authors confuse equality with equality of opportunity. equality is a good thing, but equality leads to inequality because of many different factors, including differences in the abilities and predispositions of different people. equality can only be enforced through violence, and the authors refer to this.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the resolution on empowering women and men in the digital sector because digitalisation offers new opportunities and perspectives. most jobs in the near future will require digital skills, and many jobs could be in this sector. the resolution highlights the persisting gender gap in employment, in basic and advanced skills, in access to digital technologies and services, and in the participation of women in digitised workplaces. and i'm also very interested in the results of research, if only it's true, that is trying to identify the systematic causes of the growing gender inequality in digital skills, which may simply be due to the different brain structures of the sexes that are already forming in the early stages of life, the weeks of life, being amplified in personal development, which many modern ideologues fail to see in their attempts to force parity.
mr. chairman, please! this is an important issue, although perhaps the report itself does not reflect this, because the debt of many developing countries is very high, to such a high level that it even threatens the financial liquidity of these countries, so it is important for these countries, for their citizens, but also for the financial institutions, international, including the european union. we should all work towards a process of reform, perhaps also towards the creation of a new framework and rules for lending to these countries. what's very important is that the report kind of shifts the focus to the responsibility of the debtor, so not the institution or the state that provides aid, that provides loans, that provides credit to the debtor, that is the governments of developing countries, which are often not honest, where we often have to deal with crime, money laundering, corruption. the shift in the centre of gravity cannot be accepted, which is why i voted against.
is there no one here? then i adjourn the court until 3:00. thank you so much to all the people who stuck with us to the end.
mr president, there is a legal obligation to stop crimes against humanity. this obligation was executed recently on behalf of all of us by the us, france and the united kingdom. we are grateful that both nato and the eu show unanimous support for these actions. the precision strikes allow us to expose what was so difficult to detect in the very long, complicated war in syria, with elements of hybrid – our allies and our opponents, if not enemies.
mr. chairman, please! in this terrible war that has been going on for seven years, we are often guided by uncertain reports, and we do not want to listen to certain information or opinions that we should take into account. all the christian authorities in the region, led by cardinal raï, have recently called for the conflict not to escalate and for a proper investigation of the reports, but, moreover, anyone of us who is interested in what is really happening in syria, who talks to missionaries, to humanitarian organizations, will know that this is not what mr verhofstadt told us here a year and a half ago about the moderate forces in aleppo. christians simply want peace, and for example, they have taken the cessation of hostilities in aleppo as a liberation. the same thing is happening today. let's start looking at the facts, this war has to end in the interest of all. if europe is to be europe, it cannot be deaf to the christian voices that come from there. it's time to end this tragedy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, our partnership with russia is far from being positive. on the contrary, russia’s posture against the west, including the eu, is more and more aggressive. also, the modalities of our so-called ‘selective engagement’ with russia are not so clear. allow me to give one example: just a few days ago, the investigative journalist maxim borodin died in very suspicious and unclear circumstances. some time earlier, he had exposed the role of the so-called wagner group of private mercenaries: putin’s army fighting first in eastern ukraine and then in syria. how would you describe this selective engagement, being negative in the ukraine and positive in syria in respect of the same people, who have a very bad record of war crimes?
madam president! let us face it: the russian federation has in recent years become a threat to peace and security in europe and the world. the policy of the russian federation under the leadership of president putin is a policy that violates international law, an aggressive policy towards its own neighbors. this is the policy of a country that supports the murderous regime of president assad in syria. this is the country that is responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of people who have died as a result of the barbaric airstrikes on syria. this is a country that bears full responsibility for the deaths of independent journalists. this is a country that interferes with democratic electoral procedures in europe and the united states. this is a country that has become an enemy of europe. someone here said it was all about a difference of interest. ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental conflict of values between europe and the russian federation. i think we've given a lot of time and diplomacy and opportunities for dialogue with the russian federation. unfortunately, nothing comes of it. i am surprised at the naivety of some of my colleagues who have spoken in this debate and who keep saying: we must find ways of talking to the russian federation. we talk, but we also have to be strong and united, we have to speak with one voice. and i agree with my colleagues who said that sanctions... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! i take note of the views expressed here by commissioner stylianides and i take it that this is addressed to the russian authorities. at the same time, let's look at what's happening. in this room, there are representatives of countries that support nord stream 2, in this room, there are representatives of countries where president putin is very warmly welcomed. and here in this room, you have countries that are increasingly importing coal from, say, russia, so you can say that these economies are complementary regardless of the government, which is always passing, even if it's long-term, the society remains. i would like us to realize that russian society is a proud society, but often has negative stereotypes about poland. i am with those who are calling for dialogue, for an offer to young russians, for example in the erasmus system, to eliminate stereotypes. let's be prepared for the day when things will be better and normal.
mr. chairman, please! i had the honor of being a member of that delegation, like my honorable predecessors. this was my fifth visit to korea and the fourth in recent years. south korea, despite its name, is part of the west and should be supported by the european union, by our countries. this country deserves our support, especially with an aggressive communist neighbor. i think the fate of the unification is in the hands of the koreans themselves. they should be the ones to decide, but we should of course support them in that. it's good that the united states is interested in the situation. we hope that the decisions on this matter will be joint decisions of the west. but it does not accept the aggressive policy of the communist north korean government, which does not respect any standards. we can't let that happen.
mr. chairman, please! of course, we should be happy that the two koreas have resumed dialogue, that the president of the united states may meet with the leader of north korea, but we have to keep a long distance from this problem. most of the speeches i hear are voices of hope. i hate to quote the saying about hope being the mother of fools, but there's something about not being able to live with hope. we must base our actions on facts. and the fact is that north korea is a ruthless regime, and it's a regime that is based solely on force and fear, a regime that has, in fact, only one backbone, and that backbone is china. so i think the key to solving this problem -- and of course, the strength of the united states, the european union, and russia -- is china. i would like to ask the commissioner what the talks between the european union and china are like on this subject. without china, in my opinion, this problem will not be solved.
my colleagues kelam and kukan handed me over: i can sign what my colleagues from the ppe group said earlier. i would like to add only two elements which are important from my point of view. first of all, as my colleague kukan said, we apologize. we need to be more disciplined, we need to be more organized, and we need to have better formulated strategic goals. i would add that we should also take care of internal communications here in europe, so that the external action service remembers that the allies for a particular policy are first and foremost the citizens of the european union. and i'll add one more element to the end. well, 52 billion euros is not a small amount of money. if they are divided into so many tasks, we too often drift away from our immediate neighbours in the first place, pursue diffuse objectives in very distant geographical areas and thus lose sight of what is most important the value system of the strategic objectives to be achieved.
madam president! i see the advantages of combining the financial instruments of the european union, including the creation of more flexible and simple financing procedures. at the same time, i believe that the european neighbourhood instrument should remain a separate financial instrument. i remind you that the mid-term review showed that this instrument is working very well. why would we change anything then? the deprivation of the neighbourhood policy of its own financial instrument will lower the political status of the eastern partnership. we would lose our special approach to the union's immediate neighbourhood. certain objectives and features, such as diversification and more for more, and thus the incentive for structural reforms, will also disappear. the focus of the neighbourhood policy is on political engagement rather than development aid, it is more comprehensive, more ambitious and therefore requires special attention. in addition, there would be a risk of reducing eastern partnership funding by facilitating the transfer of funds between different priorities and regions. i do not agree with that and that is why i believe that the neighbourhood policy cannot be deprived of its own financial instrument.
in writing. the proposed increase in flexibility in the use of existing eu financial instruments, including by high representative mogherini, to better respond to regional and global challenges seems appropriate. the european parliament in the schaake report agrees that the mechanism of the instrument needs to be reviewed and updated, mainly because of the lack of a strategic and overarching vision and the fact that it is managed by different services both in the commission and in the eeas. however, the idea of combining all instruments into one for the sake of simplification seems to be too far-reaching. in particular, we support the demands of the central european countries to keep the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) as a separate instrument, in line with the principle 'do not spoil what works well'. we support simplification and alignment of financial mechanisms with policy objectives. however, it seems that the separation of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) and the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) should be maintained precisely for the sake of the eu's political objectives. the maintenance of separate enis and geographical and thematic baskets is important as a signal that the eu recognises the european aspirations of the eastern partnership partners. the reform of financial instruments should be carried out in a way that strengthens eu policy, especially towards neighbourhood countries.
in writing. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the basis for the functioning of the european union. they allow us to determine when the eu has legislative powers and can contribute to decision-making in accordance with the principle of 'closest to the citizen' and what action the institutions take is necessary and essential to achieve the objectives of the treaties. these principles guarantee the efficiency of the european legislative procedure while respecting the sovereignty of the individual states. however, in recent years, these principles have been abused by eurosceptic politicians and used to fight the european union. the report on the annual reports for 2015 and 2016 on subsidiarity and proportionality is intended to recall that these principles serve the functioning of the community and should not undermine its effectiveness. the commission's reports for 2015 and 2016 show above all that new tools introduced since 2014, inter alia through refit, have allowed for a greater involvement of national parliaments in the legislative process. in addition, the european commission continues to implement the improved better regulation programme, and its effects are becoming increasingly visible.
mr. chairman, please! the european council has adopted a number of conclusions, including a number of positive ones, which are important in the context of brexit, namely the unequivocal declaration of solidarity by the member states with the united kingdom following the attack in salisbury. this grim incident is part of a larger whole. brexit aside, europe as a whole faces the challenge of putin's neo-imperial russia, which treats some nato and eu member states as its own sphere of influence and has developed a whole new arsenal of hybrid warfare. europe was not prepared to deal with this. modern russia does not offer its citizens prosperity, but it can offer a sense of regained power, and hence the path of this russia is georgia, it is donbas, it is crimea, it is involvement in the most volcanic and unstable region of the world, which is the middle east, and this on the side of a dictator who also reaches for chemical weapons. and as far as european politics is concerned, of course, it is a weakening of european cohesion, so we are waiting for the european commission to respond to this challenge (we will probably know it at the summit in june).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. on behalf of the committee on culture, i would like to express my moderate satisfaction. moderate because we have good results in programmes like erasmus+. in a few months, we'll have four million young people in europe who will be the beneficiaries of this programme. the next perspective is guaranteed, so we're very satisfied here. the second element: the two key programmes for the culture committee creative europe and europe for citizens. unfortunately, the mood here is not that good. i would stress that the beneficiaries of these programmes are only 11 to 16%, which means that 80% of the beneficiaries leave without getting any help for their ideas, in short, from the european institutions. i'll also point out one instrument that doesn't work properly: student loan guarantees. this instrument is broken all the time, and i regret it. the last point that the commissioner mentioned was the difference between the payments that are due and those that can be made in practice, given the resources available. we got out of this problem a year and a half, two years ago, and we're back in it. i'm noticing that. and the last thing is the efis. in this project, which is very important from the point of view of investment, culture is poorly represented. the whole cultural sector, the whole creative sector, which is the source of so much satisfaction in europe, needs to be more present there.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the court, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your work. two points are worth highlighting. firstly, what is still unresolved, what is hanging over our parliament, is the question of discharge to the council, the european council. the lack of co-operation of the council in this process - i am glad that you are a minister - may change, but i have been in our parliament for a long time and i know that the lack of co-operation of the council is a constant, a very bad thing. this is the procedure - the commissioner will confirm this - we also evaluate the european commission, we evaluate the court of auditors. and these institutions are working with us. there is no reason for the council to consistently refuse this cooperation, and this is about some transparency and some democracy, and accountability to the voters, to the people who are taxpayers in the european union. parliament, as the only institution elected democratically, has the right to control the council, and we must and will do so.
..of this vote. it's impossible to follow what you're saying. the interpreters don't follow until the lord says yes, the interpreter says no, or vice versa. it's impossible to keep up with. we can't have a vote that's decided by chance. i don't understand german, so i listen to this translation. this isn't a gym class or a game of reflexes. we're passing some serious legislation here. i understand you're in a hurry for dinner. i've been standing here for a few minutes, waving at you, and you don't see me, and i think you're looking at one side of the room the whole time. you will then state the results of that vote.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say that i support the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and australia. it seems natural, but i wanted to stress the importance of this issue because we live in very uncertain times. for perhaps the first time in history, the united states is causing us to feel uncertain about its leadership in democratic governance in the world. china is growing in power, russia is once again embarking on a policy that is disrupting the world order, and the european union should and must conclude further agreements with countries with important countries in the world. australia is one of them also, among other things, because of not only its strength and weight, but also its geographical location. i'm glad we're supporting this agreement.
in the debate yesterday, the final was very interesting, with two extreme views. the first is to give certain countries a discount rate, to give them time to implement the timetable differently from the objectives they have set themselves. and the second is to make no exceptions. i want to make it clear that i supported this report with the following conviction: that both views should be regarded as extreme and rejected. there are areas in the waste management industry that don't tolerate any differences in schedule. and there may be some that have to take into account the different starting points of different countries. we have to appreciate their efforts, we have to appreciate their progress, and we have to note that in some areas, and i emphasize some areas, especially where we have very delicate matter, we have to differentiate these schedules. however, there shall be no common denominator for either of the two posts. this would be unfair and inefficient.
mr. chairman, please! the report deals mainly with the issues of reporting simplifying this system, aligning the reporting provisions with the other waste directives. it's all about making the controls more efficient. this is very important, but i am speaking on this occasion to draw attention to other issues that are not in this report but are related to it, namely the development of the circular economy and, in this context, the empowerment of consumers. i am referring to ideas such as the right to repair and the fight against what we commonly call the artificial ageing of products. all of this is causing us to increase the number, the amount of waste, and that's something we have to deal with, not just reporting, not just controlling.
i have to say, the debate yesterday was more than satisfactory. but what i want to emphasize today is that too often, by diverting our interests - including our financial interests - we very rarely move into the area of our closest neighbors. i want to draw attention to this because the eastern partnership countries are the most important for us, they are crucial for us, and by shifting our attention very often to venezuela, to colombia, to very distant countries, we neglect what is crucial from the point of view of our interests, european interests. on this occasion, i would like to - while appealing to us not to lose our attention, not to waste our resources - to return to the wise policy of the european parliament, the european institution, towards the countries of the east: towards moldova, towards ukraine, also towards belarus - to remember that these, our closest neighbouring interests, require extraordinary care.
mr. chairman, please! i've been asked by the cultural affairs committee to comment on the discharge. yesterday, almost all of them were handed over, with one exception. the committee on culture has repeatedly pointed out that there is still a lack of funds to expand the so-called pilot programmes. this is particularly regrettable because, in the absence of programmes such as creative europe or europe for citizens, pilot projects are the narrow but extremely valuable gateway to new programmes, in short, those that expand the possibilities of young people, especially in the cultural field. i would like to make a point of this in addition to what i said the day before.
mr. chairman, either facebook's actions are legal and there's no problem, or they're not legal and there are courts and prosecutors to enforce the law. there is really no reason for parliament, which is not a judicial body, to deal with individual cases of application of the law, otherwise it would do nothing else. parliament makes the law, not enforces it. that's the whole point of the tripartite system. you can't rewrite the law every time someone breaks it just like that. you don't write laws for a specific case. you're using every high-profile case like this to get your bureaucratic hands even deeper into the pockets and intimacy of citizens, but that shouldn't be an excuse, because as much as i don't feel safe with zuckerberg handling my personal data, i don't trust my data being safe in your hands when you're meddling. because i can log out of facebook at any time, and under the authority of eu bureaucrats it's not that easy.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to point out that the participants in this scandal, in this event, are shouldering responsibility. cambridge analytica says that facebook is responsible, that facebook is the university of cambridge. cambridge university says it's alexander kogan, and this researcher says it's the users. i think that everyone is guilty in this case, because we are focused here, dear colleagues, only on facebook, while the guilt and of course the scale of the guilt is different. facebook has known about the problematic activity of cambridge analytica and other apps since 2006, and it's only now going to conduct an audit. but others chose to turn a blind eye to the purpose of academic research - for example, the cambridge psychometrics centre study did not pass the university ethics committee approval process. moreover, users also shared their friends' data, so it is not just the digital platforms that need to be regulated. we need to think about the mechanism of control of scientific research, and we need to educate the public.
the question asked by raising the blue card. (start of the speech off the microphone) i 'm not ... mr. president, i would like to ask you to introduce new legislation on this matter. i wanted to ask you what specifically you have in mind for the legislative solution. do you not see the problem that whatever law is passed, someone can illegally release that data? we already have a law against it, and it's not helping. there's always gonna be people who break them. the creation of additional agencies and even more state surveillance of the internet is even more dangerous than the manipulation by private companies, because private companies do not have police and military, and states do. so governments are much more dangerous entities that interfere with online data than facebook, which is why i caution you not to demand that officials interfere even more with the freedom of citizens online.
madam president! the cambridge analytica and facebook scandals can be a lesson in failure and loss of reputation, or they can be a lesson in opportunity. what chance? never before has privacy on the internet been talked about on such a scale - that it's important for everyone, that it creates a heavy responsibility to manage your own data, that we're going to help three million disadvantaged europeans. never before has the personal data protection regulation been highlighted with such respect as an achievement harmonising privacy rules at european level, giving users a key tool to give their consent to data processing. although we will only be evaluating the implementation of these rules in a few months, never before has european privacy law been mentioned as a reference for the whole world. never before has there been such pressure to have clear and hard rules for online advertising, especially when it comes to political promotion, so as not to involve the internet in the dark side of political struggle especially not to manipulate elections and fund them in an opaque way. never before has the demand for platforms for defined transparency of responsibility for content, data use and micro-targeting been so strong. what will this opportunity bring? it will strengthen the most valuable asset for the development of the internet - trust - provided that everything we say today is implemented with ironclad consequence. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. i think that the entry into force of the data protection regulation is a great opportunity for us to learn to be aware of managing our own data, because we say so colloquially: 'we will give consent and that will solve the problem'. it's not going to be easy, because it's going to require us to be aware, to be aware of the benefits that we might lose by not agreeing to things. and the entire network of public institutions, including libraries, that can play a big role in building that digital awareness, should be involved.
madam president! so, for the avoidance of doubt, i'll say right off the bat that i'm as much a user and a fan of facebook, twitter, and mobile as i am of the internet. these are the achievements of civilization. it's hard not to use them. but i am far from the naivete that is also present in this room that these are tools that serve only good. they are also instruments of surveillance, in short. i do not believe in any legal regulation that will guarantee the protection of personal data, the interest of the individual user, one hundred percent. but does that mean we should give up? i certainly don't. what's important to me? without trusting the enthusiasts, the naïve people who look at the internet and these tools only through the lens of benefit, i will say that what is crucial today is to build the right hierarchy of goals: physical safety, the safety of children's lives and health, as well as the protection of legal institutions, including elections themselves. we should protect those values first.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the polish delegation to the ecr group welcomed the agreement following the trilateral talks in december 2017. the terrorist attacks in paris, brussels, nice, stockholm and manchester have changed europe. increasing access to information on beneficial owners and trustees of companies outside the european union is particularly welcome. in poland, for example, a central register of beneficial owners is planned, based on a legal obligation for economic operators to provide notifications of their beneficial owners. the new regulation will therefore help to develop a coherent union policy towards third countries with significant deficiencies in their anti-money laundering systems.
madam president! i am the messenger of freedom. i represent freedom, and i defend freedom. this resolution seeks to restrict the freedom of economic freedom, its civil rights. its purpose is not to fight terrorism, but to monitor and control society. bitcoin has become the next front in the european union's fight against free markets through tax regulation. poland started it by proposing absurd, cruel and unfair rules to tax transactions in cryptocurrencies. these rules have one purpose: to maintain the state monopoly in the economy and in monetary systems. it is healthy competition that is the guarantor of development, and especially competition in the currency areas. it's true that terrorists are playing the cryptocurrency market. but it's also true that terrorists drive cars. so why not ban cars? the last bloody attacks in europe were carried out using motorized vehicles. none of the solutions proposed here will reduce terrorist activity. you're proposing limits on transfers and the need to register them. these laws only introduce further barriers for businesses and strict monitoring of citizens. as usual, instead of harming terrorists, you're making life more difficult for ordinary people. if you want to fight terrorism, change your immigration policy and stop destabilizing the middle east. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there are too many regulations, of course, and we're losing our freedom every moment. this resolution is another example of that, taking away our personal freedoms, our economic freedoms. the previous example was the gun acquisition and possession file. i am convinced that this dossier has in no way stopped, hindered or hindered the possession of weapons by terrorists, but only the possession of weapons legally acquired by normal people throughout europe.
the fight against terrorism and the fight against money laundering are merely propaganda and psychological tricks used to win the approval of public opinion and of us, the members of parliament, for the next steps towards building a system of total control of all financial flows between citizens of the eu countries. in the latin civilization that once existed here, every citizen could freely dispose of his money without control by the public authorities, and no one had to prove its purity. there was a simple presumption of innocence. today, the presumption of guilt is introduced, a preventive system of total control is introduced. europe is becoming one big supranational prison, one area of universal surveillance of all citizens by a bureaucratic supranational authority. we demand the return of freedom and liberty to europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to encourage the european parliament to give its approval by its vote to the political agreement reached in december 2017 on this ambitious new text on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. i also wish that the council, on its side, will approve as swiftly as possible the same text in order to ensure publication in the official journal as soon as possible. in the meantime, the commission will continue to make the effective implementation and enforcement of the existing anti-money laundering directive its key priority. commission statement(in writing) the commission regrets that the revised directive does not provide the same level of transparency on beneficial ownership of profit-making trusts as it does for companies and other legal entities. the commission underlines that, in the light of general principles of eu law and of the duty to state reasons, it is of the utmost importance for union legislation to include sufficient, specific, adequate and legally sound motivation as to the access to the information of beneficial owners included in central registers. the statement of reasons must disclose, clearly and unequivocally, the reasoning of the author of the measure, in such a way as to enable the persons concerned to ascertain the reasons for it and to enable the competent courts to exercise their power of review. the commission considers that granting public access to beneficial ownership information of companies and firms is justified in light of the general need for transparency of corporate affairs in order to protect the interests of third parties and that this aspect of the directive pertains to article 50 tfeu. it regrets that parliament and council have considered that this aspect should only be regarded as a positive side effect and does not require citing article 50 tfeu as an additional legal basis. however, considering that the choice of article 114 tfeu as the sole legal basis does not imply legal consequences in this case, the commission can accept the final version of the directive.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 april 2018.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr daniel dalton on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (com2016) 0031 c8-0015/2016 2016/0014 cod)) (a8-0048/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to warmly thank members for the support for the high level of ambitions in this proposal, expressed literally by all of you. as any discussion is connected to the budget in some way or another, let me say that we must make sure – and this is my pledge to you – that the commission is well equipped to carry out the new responsibilities properly. again, let me stress that this reform is really vital to ensure sufficient eu oversight and prevent any future misconduct. together with our real-conditions driving tests we will ensure that what has been approved on paper will be matched in the reality. the reform is also important to pave the way for connected and automated cars, to reduce air pollution and to reach our climate target, which is extremely important. it will be the key, as many of you mentioned, to restoring public confidence. i also want to assure you that it will ensure the full independence of market surveillance. we never want to see a repetition of the dieselgate scandal again and this proposal is really a key tool to ensure it. again a really, really warm ‘thank-you’ to the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs. thank you very much for the support and the cooperation.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 april 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the eu regulations related to the type-approval of motor vehicles cover a total of 3 vehicle categories: motor vehicles and their trailers, tractors and motorcycles. the legal regulations on motorcycles and tractors are not in doubt, as they were introduced in 2013, and the practical implementation of these solutions does not raise much controversy. unfortunately, the issue of the typeapproval of motor vehicles and their trailers is different. we have two major problems here in practice. the first problem is that the 2007 directive in force in this area is interpreted in a very different way in the 28 eu countries. this results in a flagrant undermining of the effectiveness of the applicable union law. the second problem that we have seen in recent years is the fraud that has been perpetrated by some car companies, especially the german volkswagen. the scandal involved software manipulation and false co2 emissions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a regulation on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers. this is of fundamental importance for the safety of passengers and the protection of the environment. i believe that the solutions proposed provide such opportunities.
the next item is the report by mr martin häusling, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on organic production and labelling of organic products, amending regulation (eu) no xxx/xxx of the european parliament and of the council [official controls regulation] and repealing council regulation (ec) no 834/2007 (com (2014) 0180 c7-0109/2014 2014/0100 (cod)) (a8-0311/2015).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. although not all the solutions negotiated by the commission, parliament and council in this regulation are satisfactory, i am convinced that they will promote the growth of organic production and that it will increase at the same rate as it has been so far. let me remind you that in the last 10 years, it's tripled. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the positive solutions contained in this regulation. first, the possibility of introducing group certification for small producers. secondly, the validity of the low-risk controls was extended to 24 months. thirdly, allowing mixed farms to continue to grow organic and conventional crops in parallel. fourth, for imports of organic products from third countries, a switch from the so-called equivalence system to a system of full compliance with union standards. finally, the exclusion of retailers selling packaged products directly to the final consumer from the certification scheme.
mr. chairman, please! the popularity of organic products is growing in europe and worldwide. that's good, because organic farming is about environmental sustainability, it's about protecting biodiversity, it's about healthy and safe food, and it's about treating animals ethically in food production. it's finally zero tolerance for gmos and animal cloning and the urgent need for a total ban on pesticides. but it's important that organic farming is credible, authentic and fair. the official logo of organic farming in the european union i.e. the euro leaf must, on the one hand, benefit organic farmers and ensure fair competition for organic production, and, on the other, give consumers the assurance that the organic product is of exemplary quality. clear and consistent procedures to facilitate certification for small farmers, approval for mixed farms that is organic and conventional, but the quality of organic production must be strictly controlled at every stage of production and distribution, and third country operators must be subject to the same legislation as the european union as regards organic production.
mr. president, i'm sorry to call you so late. the regulation in question is not the bible of organic farming, as the rapporteur has suggested, but it sets out the rules, production conditions, quality issues, standards and control requirements. the road to this regulation was extremely difficult. the opinions of the member states, including those of the farmers concerned, were very divided. the determination was on the side of the rapporteur, the co-rapporteurs, the commissioner and the estonian presidency. the organic farming sector will grow. the demand for these products is growing, and consumers are placing more and more importance on the quality of food. now we need to develop market infrastructure, build supply networks, but also provide a system of services for organic farmers in the field of certification, control, advice, knowledge transfer. for consumers of these products, the information contained on the product is of particular importance. these consumers read. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the co-rapporteurs and the whole team of advisers.
on behalf of the ni group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. fellow workers! i want to support very strongly the report by mr rangel. it's a very good proposition. the point is whether we want national parliaments to be active actors in european politics rather than national politics or not. the rangela report supports the first solution and very well. i cannot agree with the argument put forward by mr selimovica on behalf of alde, which is really about reducing the role of national parliaments. the ideas of a flexible early warning system, a european week, the implementation of the yellow card procedure deserve very clear approval, and a great appeal to the commission to reorient its attitude towards a positive attitude, to treat national parliaments not as unwanted children but as real political partners.
mr president, by looking at the implementation of the treaty provisions on national parliaments paulo rangel has delivered an extremely useful report. the treaty of lisbon has become known as the treaty of parliaments because it has not only considerably increased the power of the european parliament but also recognised prerogatives of national parliaments and their constitutional role within the european framework. these include the control of a subsidiarity and proportionality and ensuring the democratic legitimacy of european decision-making, in particular when double legitimacy is at stake there are 41 national chambers in the european union and they cooperate with us, the european parliament, through numerous platforms. but the core function of national parliaments is in the area of european decision-making, and this remains democratic scrutiny and monitoring of their national government’s activity in the council and in the european council, and this is the shortest way to influence european decision-making. national parliaments are even more relevant for the process of european legislation through their role in the transposition, implementation and enforcement of european legislation at national level. they are irreplaceable in the better law-making agenda. they can effectively prevent the gold-plating of european legislation and improve the institutional capacity to implement european legislation at national level. but today, let me add one more issue and invite national parliaments to get involved in launching national debates on europe’s future as they can indeed be an excellent vehicle for engaging citizens in shaping the future of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – that’s what democracy and elections are about, but that’s also what transparency of european institutions is about. so that also depends on how transparent the european institutions, especially the council, are and whether they allow the public also to look at what has been decided and who says what, before they go back home and blame ‘brussels’ and say ‘it’s just this horrible brussels that made the decision’, when in reality it’s the national governments.
madam president! i agree with the rapporteur that investment and innovation in a competitive environment are crucial for the future of europe. however, it is difficult to understand why competitive prices for services and labour costs for citizens of central and eastern european countries are often called social dumping. this highly toxic formulation was also unfortunately included in the report, without any clarification. i also have reservations about the fact that the paragraphs on tax policy indirectly call for tax harmonisation. i also object to the use of specific company names as examples of unfair competition. the european parliament should not be a substitute for the commission's directorate-general for competition. in view of the above, the polish delegation abstains.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr tremos and mr balcells, for a very good report. the report concludes that the european commission, together with the national competition authorities, is a very efficient and effective system for implementing, assessing and monitoring the application of competition rules in the european union. this is a statement that allows us to say that competition is good for the citizens and businesses of the european union. i disagree with earlier voices that the commission does not think about citizens - quite the contrary - competition is for citizens, not for companies. that's the first one. second, i also agree that fair tax competition is essential to the integrity of the internal market. it is for this reason, among other reasons, that i believe that the commission should have the right to inspect the tax rulings, the tax information of individual companies held by individual tax authorities in order to check their compliance with the competition rules. at the same time, i would say that in order to remain competitive, it is necessary to ensure that tax rules are simple and transparent, that they do not aim at harmonising tax rates but at unifying the tax base. finally, two critical points: first, corruption, which distorts the functioning of the market. i call on the commission to step up its fight against corruption, especially in public procurement. finally, the antitrust measures are too long, commissioner. i encourage you to cut these antitrust proceedings short.
madam president, tax transparency has become a crucial issue for eu citizens in recent years. to address this public demand, the commission came up with a proposal and public country—by—country reporting in 2016 – two years ago. i was the ppe shadow on this file and in this chaos, after months of hard work, we found the right balance, i think, between the demand for more transparency and protecting eu companies on the other hand. we adopted our decision last year in june. now while preaching commitment to this fight for tax transparency, this presidency has not even called a meeting yet on this very issue. blocking this dossier simply because member states cannot agree on the legal base is simply not serious. this is not a directive about tax rates, tax revenues or any fiscal issues; this is a directive about transparency and disclosure. this has nothing to do with the infringement of national powers or national competences, and therefore i call on this council to swiftly proceed with the work on this directive.
in writing. i am very concerned about the debate that is taking place outside the mainstream media, on social media and on internet portals. a debate in which emotions and unsupported data and scientific research are the most important factors, and the most important is the information about the ineffectiveness or even harmfulness of vaccines. as a result, regardless of the policies and programmes adopted by the member states, the level of vaccination in the eu is falling year by year. but let's look at the facts, and the facts are that diseases that we've long forgotten about are coming back. just because there have been no measles cases in the last decade does not mean that the disease has disappeared. it was the protective vaccines that reduced the incidence of measles to virtually zero. it is also a fact that vaccines are a definite achievement of civilization, and the european system for approving medicines is very rigorous. but these facts are now being debated more and more. certainly, as the ep resolution points out, we can do more to make vaccines and vaccines themselves as safe as possible for our youngest. i also believe that reliable and detailed information from doctors and pharmaceutical companies will certainly help to reduce vaccine resistance. but i am very careful not to deny the meaning and efficacy of vaccines. let's not play with our children's health and lives.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs - ms teresie jiménez and ms sorayi post - on this very good report which makes concrete recommendations on the european protection order. it is an instrument that is part of the international effort to prevent violence and protect victims. we know that violence is a global scourge that affects virtually every country, and that women are the primary victims. we also know that this instrument, despite the high hopes we have placed in it, remains a facade, because it has only been used seven times, despite the fact that thousands of women in europe are injured, sick or killed every year as a result of violence. the shortcomings of this instrument have been pointed out by the authors and i appeal to the commissioner to put them into practice. first of all, this european register, making sure that this warrant is actually european and fulfils the functions for which it was designed.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. we have been discussing the future of our european project a lot in this house recently. the key to its development is to strengthen it intellectually, culturally, socially and innovatively - in short, to build a europe of knowledge. education, and in particular higher education, plays a central role in the construction of a europe of knowledge. the bologna process is a pillar of the european higher education area already established in the sorbonne declaration. since the bologna declaration in 1999, much has been achieved in terms of quality of education, mobility and the recognition of diplomas and qualifications. unfortunately, the level of implementation of the bologna process objectives varies widely from one country to another. the quality of this implementation is also important, as it affects both the reliability of the process and the actual implementation of its assumptions. in many countries, the bologna process has been misinterpreted, in others a mechanical division between first and second cycle studies has been introduced, without regard for the content of the curriculum, and in still others it has been considered an imposed government initiative rather than our common european project. we therefore ask the commission the following questions: first, does the commission monitor the level of implementation of the bologna objectives in individual countries? these key objectives are, first and foremost, quality of education, reliable quality accreditation, recognition of qualifications and diplomas, the correct award of the famous ects credits, i.e. credits recording student achievement, the promotion of mobility for both students and staff, but also the promotion of lifelong learning at the academic level. we also ask how the commission assesses the current state and level of the bologna process. our question also concerns whether the commission has identified those factors which hinder the effective and correct implementation of the process. and finally, how does the commission support member states in the proper implementation of the bologna process? the signatories of the bologna declaration and the ministers of the signatory countries meet periodically to summarise the achievements of the process on the one hand and to set new objectives and new objectives on the other. the last such conference was held in 2015 in yerevan. a communication was issued with a very important message: to strengthen the social dimension of the bologna process, to include students with disabilities, to include people from disadvantaged backgrounds, to include a mobility programme, which is the essence of this process. we have a question for the commission: how does it assess the steps taken as a result of the yerevan communication? how much has been done in terms of social inclusion of the bologna process? in addition, belarus has been accepted into the european higher education area, but unfortunately the belarusian authorities have not fulfilled many of their commitments, but we expect belarus to remain on the agenda of the european higher education area and possibly consider the possibility of extending the roadmap for belarus. we have another conference in paris. the european commission is one of the signatories of the bologna declaration. so what are the commission's strategic objectives? what initiatives does he intend to take to strengthen the bologna process? what about higher education beyond 2020? what are the commission's strategic objectives? we also ask - and this is something we are very interested in - what is the link and relationship between the european higher education area, the european research area and the european education area announced by the commission? we believe, as the committee on culture and education, that only complementary initiatives can build an attractive and innovative europe of knowledge.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the bologna process has undoubtedly had a number of positive aspects, but it is important to go beyond the celebrations and to consider whether some of the initial assumptions were actually correct. after all, academics and researchers who study educational change have long been alarmed by the lack of reflection on the side effects of the bologna process. a number of publications on this topic include teaching in higher education and the european higher education news bulletin. i have the impression that here in the european parliament we do not take them into account either. critics of the bologna process, such as british sociologist stephen ball, point out, among others, that by imposing rigid indicators and standards, academic teaching is judged only by the technical level of performance and not by intellectual values, creative ideas, and the formation of student personality. this has a negative impact on the content of the subjects taught, and affects teachers' professional autonomy and academic freedom. hence my question to the commission: whether and to what extent do its experts analyse these critical voices? are the conclusions of critics such as stephen ball, stefan kuhl, marvin lazerson and many others taken into account? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to let you go. do you agree that the critical voices you have cited are proof of what i have said - that not everyone has understood the idea, because the idea of bologna is not standardization, but convergence with all respect and autonomy and programmatic freedom of the individual universities?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. it is not my intention, nor was it the intention of my speech, to stop or slow down the bologna process. i was just pointing out that we really need to think more deeply about the assumptions themselves, namely the downside of this process is standardization. perhaps it is mainly a question of implementing this process, but i think we should consider some assumptions, because the social sciences and humanities in particular have their own specificities that were not taken into account in this process.
madam president! we must remember that the bologna system is not limited to the countries of the european union. these are also countries that do not belong to this family, even as belarus, which implements the bologna criteria slowly, a little inadequately, but also shows that it has value. i want to emphasize that the committee on culture not only looks at these criteria, the bologna system from its own perspective, but we also try to look at it critically, from time to time drawing attention to the shortcomings. but what's really important to me is also art schools. and we have to remember that even in music schools, we need these common foundations, these common criteria, so that young people who then come together to play in a certain orchestra, play by the same rules, in the same way. and there is a problem with art schools in the visual arts, but i'll say right away, the principals of these schools understand this very well.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. it is not easy to be the head of a delegation such as the delegation for relations with belarus. it's moving between our expectations, our standards, our values and the realities that are functioning in belarus. today, we are referring - and i stress this - to the last four months, to what has happened in belarus, which must be of particular concern to us. this is the first local government election, the last in a cycle, that has been held again, i stress again, in violation of the osce directives. it worries us, it upsets us, it makes us nervous. the second thing that is extremely important is the attitude towards the belarusian opposition: the failure to register opposition parties, numerous arrests, detentions, harassment, even of individual activists. there's a lot of this, which we think is completely unjustified, that shows what standards should unfortunately be there, but are not. and the last element is also the one that is related to such online portals as karta, which were closed, also without proper justification. that's what we're looking at.
author. – madam president, the difficult geopolitical location of belarus does not legitimise the use of force and violent intimidation of its own society, including children. here i would like to add one example, of the charter 67 social network that was closed recently. it does not legitimise posing a direct military threat to its neighbours, such as the exercises in zapad or environmental threats such as the ostrovet nuclear power plant.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i regret to say that two years after the lifting of sanctions against 170 belarusian citizens and three belarusian entities in recognition of belarus' steps to improve relations with the european union and its constructive role in the region, we are again facing a situation of violations of the rule of law and human rights in the country. unfortunately, belarus has not yet implemented the expected electoral reform, and the recent local elections raise concerns. i therefore believe that the belarusian authorities should be strongly urged to ensure that they respect the foundations of a democratic state based on the rule of law and fundamental human rights. at the same time, active support should continue for belarusian non-governmental organisations and independent media providing information in the belarusian language.
mr president, i want to support the motion for a resolution because the main idea of the motion is that, unfortunately, the democratization process in belarus is not progressing at all. my colleagues were very correct here in pointing out the specific cases of how municipal elections were rigged, how independent servers are banned, how very complicated it is, in principle impossible to establish an independent political party in belarus. it is basically the only dictatorship in europe today and we must react, we must act, because if the protection of freedom and democracy is a fundamental idea, a fundamental european value, then we cannot be blind to this and we cannot tolerate these things in belarus. so i agree with that, and now it's up to the eu institutions and the commissioner, how she's going to react to that, to adjust our policy towards belarus, to adjust it to the fact that belarus hasn't made any changes in democratization since 2016.
mr. chairman, please! this month - after all, it's only been three and a half weeks - belarus celebrated independence day, the centenary of the proclamation of the belarusian people's republic. i think we should take this opportunity to send our warmest wishes to all belarusians, it is a pity that they were not present, and especially to the belarusian national front, to which we owe such a large-scale social participation in these celebrations, as well as to the catholic church, which strongly supported them. if we really want belarus to have a future as an independent state, if we want it to have a political order based on freedom, then first of all we must support the language, the historical sense, the national sense. and that national colors or language are not just slogans of political-democratic speeches, but an ever-deeper social reality, a reality of daily life and social consciousness. and such a long-term work should be carried out by those who are really friends of belarus.
member of the commission. – mr president, good morning. honourable members, thank you for putting this on the agenda: it is indeed important to talk about belarus. eu-belarus relations have come a long way in the last years. they continue to be driven, as many of you referred to, a policy of critical engagement from our side. we are very attentive, as you are – and thank you for that – to the human rights situation in the country. at the same time, we believe that progress in a variety of fields can be better achieved by means of enhanced cooperation. the release of remaining prisoners in august 2015 was a long-sought step which represented important progress in our relations. since most of the restrictive measures were lifted in february 2016, eu-belarus relations developed further. as for the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of belarus independence, the granting of official permissions by the authorities to hold a meeting and a concert on 25 march was recognised as a positive development. however, the preventive arrests and detentions that took place in the run-up to the commemoration were in contradiction with belarus’ stated policy of democratisation and its international commitments. while far from being sufficient, in recent years belarus has taken a number of encouraging steps. these include a pro-active participation in the eastern partnership; resumption of the eu-belarus human rights and other sectoral dialogues; and the signature of the mobility partnership in october 2016. people-to-people contacts, including youth exchanges, will continue to be further encouraged through programmes such as eu most, erasmus+, horizon 2020. belarus has also played a constructive role in the conflict in and around ukraine. we have recently observed an increased willingness by the belarusian authorities to engage with the eu in the dialogue on human rights issues. that has been resumed upon belarus’ initiative, and the next meeting will take place in june this year in minsk. this increased willingness for debate has, unfortunately, not led to any measurable legislative improvements in the human rights situation in the country, notably also on the electoral framework that you referred to. we will therefore use the opportunity of the dialogue to reiterate again that democratic principles and fundamental freedoms of expression, assembly, association, including freedom of media (also online) must be fully insured. we will highlight again the need to resume as soon as possible the work on serious, comprehensive and inclusive reform of the electoral framework in line with osce commitments and other international standards, and we will continue to call for the introduction without delay of a moratorium on the death penalty and the need to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. there were a few questions by some of you on the belarusian nuclear power plant in ostrovets, and i will take this opportunity also to reiterate that nuclear safety issues are an overall eu concern, even more so when these facilities are being constructed on an eu border. full transparency on the construction process and full cooperation with relevant international organisations, the eu and neighbouring countries are of utmost importance. the eu is using all four as an instrument that we have to address the construction in ostrovets. the aim is, of course, to ensure that the highest possible safety standards are followed. the eu is, in particular, financing experts who are assisting the belarusian national regulator during the construction of the power plant and through working with belarus in the area of nuclear stress tests. finally, honourable members, we are now close to finalising the joint eu-belarus partnership priorities, which will be the first document of this kind between the eu and belarus – an important building block in our relations, setting the strategic frame for our cooperation in the coming years, in which human rights issues play a very important role. our work in the biannual format of the eu-belarus coordination group will allow us to monitor progress in our political relations and cooperation, and the fifth meeting is confirmed: it will take place next week in minsk. the participation of representatives of civil society and experts in the discussions of the coordination group has become a standard feature, which is a positive development, and this confirms our support to, and the involvement of, the civil society, which will remain an essential part of our policy. the european union is ready to assist belarus in its reform efforts. tangible steps taken by belarus to respect universal fundamental freedom, rule of law and human rights will be key in shaping our future relationship with that country, and we will continue to closely observe action by belarus with regard to freedom of expression and assembly, as well as securing a framework for a free and independent media, as we take forward a policy of critical engagement. we will, equally, continue to call for the belarusian authorities to engage in constructive and open dialogue with the democratic opposition and civil society organisations to remove restrictions for political activities and ease procedures for registration for political parties and independent organisations in belarus. thank you all for putting this question on the agenda.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european union offers its neighbours a multifaceted, far-reaching cooperation based on respect for shared values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. in the case of belarus, however, when rights and freedoms such as the right to life, freedom of speech or press simply do not exist, it is difficult to speak of respect for common values. the amnesty international report 2017/2018 reports that belarusian courts, the only ones in europe still carrying out the death penalty, issued further death sentences in 2018. according to the 2018 world press freedom index, compiled by the international non-governmental organization reporters without borders, belarus ranks 155th out of 180 countries, measured by the degree of respect for press freedom. more than 100 journalists were arrested in 2017 and independent online news sites were blocked. in addition, no free and fair elections have been held in belarus since 1994, and the government of belarus has consistently refused to accept the mandate of the un special rapporteur on human rights in belarus. we, as members of the european parliament, elected in free, fair and universal elections, with a duty to stand guard over democratic values, should resolutely oppose such actions by the belarusian government by supporting independent sources of information, including those from abroad, and by continuing to cooperate with civil society organisations and human rights defenders.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the philippines (2018/2662 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i would like to protest against the notion that has emerged in this room that you can establish the rule of law by breaking the rule of law. this is not a road, this is just an excuse for possible crimes. the second thing that is important to me is that very often we deal, in the form of resolutions, with the affairs of distant countries, such as venezuela, colombia and now the philippines. i'm wondering if we have any follow-up on our activities. i should like to add at once that i am not in favour of not discussing these issues, but it is very important to me to prevent inflation in this area and to try to ensure that the resolutions have an impact - not just preventive but actual. this is a question for the commissioner. how do these resolutions help our foreign services?
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the eu, we have expressed strong concerns about the various human rights issues in the philippines on numerous occasions, both in bilateral meetings at political level with the government as well as in different statements. the issues that have been raised are the issues you raised here: the high number of killings associated with the campaign against illegal drugs, the climate of impunity, the declared withdrawal from the international criminal court, the possible reintroduction of the death penalty, as well as a possible lowering of the age for criminal responsibility to nine years. further, the issue of the general situation of human rights defenders have been raised: the arrest of senator de lima and challenges to the freedom of expression and opinion as well as to the independence of institutions, including the impeachment procedures initiated against the chief justice. this has been raised in different declarations and statements by the eu28 human rights council, the high representative’s spokesperson and we addressed it in a very comprehensive way in the eu special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+) monitoring report that i discussed here with you earlier this year. i have also personally met with filipino representatives of government on numerous occasions where i have raised the concerns. we are closely monitoring development, especially now regarding the petition of 21 february by the department of justice, which includes a list of more than 600 individuals, alleging that they are members of the communist party and the new people’s army. the list includes inter alia, the united nations special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous people. we note that un special rapporteurs are protected by specific diplomatic protocols during their united nations-mandated work. regarding all the individuals on the list, the eu expects the government of the philippines to fulfil, in all its proceedings on the matter, its obligation under national and international law, in particular, the respect of the rule of law and human rights, and to ensure their physical safety. that includes the right to due process, the independence of the judiciary and a fair trial for every individual. we are disturbed by the denial of entry into the philippines and the subsequent forced deportation from the country of the pes group deputy secretary-general giacomo filibeck. he was blacklisted for participating in supposed illegal political activities, where as you know and you also referred to, he was officially invited to attend the congress of akbayan, an opposition party which is represented both in the senate and in the house. we immediately raised the matter with the government, as this is the first case of a foreign-national and an eu citizen being expelled from the country for political reasons during the current administration. human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, and widespread impunity have been a long-standing problem in the philippines, as highlighted in the gsp+ report. we remain convinced that both the philippines and the eu have most to gain from constructive engagement. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the philippines entered into force on 1 march this year. and this agreement foresees the establishment of a structured human rights dialogue between the parties, which will be an important forum for addressing all human rights issues. the issue of the gsp+ commitment was raised by several of you, as you remember we discussed this in this plenary in january where we highlighted that indeed, there are several areas of progress by the philippine government when it comes to the work on gender equality health, education, social and economic rights, labour rights, fight against corruption, protection of the environment. however – and this was also very clear in the report – extra-judicial killings, especially in the fight against drugs-related impunity, and the possible reintroduction of the death penalty were mentioned. we also addressed recommendations to the philippine government and i have also personally conveyed them to the minister that they need to do more to address the issues we have discussed here. we are monitoring the situation closely, and this year’s gsp+ monitoring mission will focus on the issues related to the war on drugs. and the eu will assess recent developments before deciding on the next steps. you can count on the european commission and on the external action service to continue raising these matters with the philippine government in a clear and constructive way.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the gaza strip (2018/2663 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. i'll start by saying that i'm not an optimist. it seems that a conflict that has lasted so long, and that has so many political, cultural, religious, military elements, cannot be resolved overnight. we're aware of that. what he can be happy about is that five major groups have signed this resolution, this text, and so there is agreement on a definite definition of the situation we are facing at the moment. i want to say that what we are happy about in this room today, is the growing awareness of the palestinian people that hamas's goal is not peace, it is not a ceasefire, it is not a goal that is relevant in terms of resolving the conflicts that have been going on there for many years, but it can be a source of not so much satisfaction as it can be a source of hope. and the last thing was that the resolution was coming up in some pain. i am aware that, as a participant in the negotiations of the latter, we are faced with a certain compromise, but i would stress once again that the signing of this single text by the five groups is a certain success.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution itself is essentially balanced and reasonable, but i doubt that it makes sense for parliament to produce so many documents of this kind, because they are only demonstrations on the international stage, because if you want to have a real impact on the international stage, you have to say what you can give someone and what you can put at risk, and this document does not answer any of those questions. so there is only this instruction: you get so nervous, you get so excited, and nobody listens to this, because there must be concrete pressure measures after such actions. so i think we should slow down the pace of producing that many international resolutions, because that leads to inflation of their importance and they just don't matter. on the merits, i think we should avoid imposing democracy on all the countries in the middle east, because in many cases it has ended very badly.
member of the commission. – mr president, recent events in gaza are a stark reminder of how volatile the situation is without a clear political horizon. and that is why the european union is consistently keeping the middle east situation and the peace process high on the political agenda, at a time, moreover, when the region faces many other challenges. the high representative/vice president was at the summit of the league of arab states this past sunday, where she met several leaders including president abbas and the king of jordan. on the recent protests in gaza. the european union has been crystal clear: freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are fundamental rights that must be respected by all and israel must respect the right to peaceful protests and proportionality in the use of force when defending its legitimate security interests. the immediate priority for all sides must now be to prevent any further escalation and loss of life. we call for utmost restraint and responsibility. those leading the protest in gaza must ensure that they remain strictly non-violent and are not exploited for other means. the human rights situation in gaza that you referred to cannot be separated from the broader political context, which contributes to a worsening situation on the ground. that is why the eu, together with our partners, has put a strong focus on gaza in the last month, with two ad hoc liaison committee meetings in brussels and a successful donor conference on the gaza desalination plant, with a project on energy and more humanitarian aid. we are also ready if the political conditions are met to assist in the re-opening of the rafah crossing, which would be a game-changer for freedom of movement in gaza. however, all these efforts … (president: excuse me madam commissioner. dear colleagues please, you don’t have to love the commission but you should respect when the commissioner is talking. be quiet. please, madam commissioner.) (applause)thank you. israel needs to allow more access and movement. the palestinian leadership or the palestinian factions must assume their responsibilities for the people in gaza. we are also engaging with egypt in support of their efforts to bring back the palestinian authority to gaza, but the latest developments show how fragile this process is. the legitimate rights of palestinians to self-determination in their own state and the legitimate rights of the israelis to live in peace, security and recognised borders will only be achieved through a negotiated two-state solution. i know this is an objective we all share, and we are looking forward to working with you towards that goal. from this debate i conclude that it is our common goal to ensure a sustainable solution is found for the situation in gaza, with a return to the palestinian authority to resume its full responsibilities on the strip, and sustained opening of the crossing points. the european union will continue to support the process in its most effective way with all the instruments that we have. so thank you for this debate, for the work you do highlighting the situation, this is certainly not the last time we will be discussing this issue.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to apologise, to our colleagues: i am neither the initiator of this vote today, nor a fan of interventions in voting time. however, this voice against believes a short clarification is in order. this is a report on repealing 10 legal acts in the area of business statistics and replacing them with one. one instead of ten spirit goes against the spirit of the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, which was 57 against 6. why is it now on the agenda? because some of my colleagues’ shadows introduced an additional amendment on additional taxation information, which was rejected. of course taxation is important. however, we already have automatic exchange on taxation between tax authorities and a separate initiative in parliament on country—by—country reporting on taxation. but it has been blocked in the council since july 2017, as my colleagues from the committee on economic and monetary affairs know. there is a good reason not to place it in a very technical dossier on business statistics. there is no demand for that data in the business community, and i am sure that when we place it in this technical dossier, it stays as it is now with ten regulations instead of one. therefore, i defend the mandate and hope you manage to leave on time.
madam president! unfortunately, although as a doctor i appreciate the value and role of vaccination, i voted against the report on vaccine avoidance in europe, which was caused by many factors, including not only the fear of sometimes serious vaccine complications, but also the continuous increase in the number of mandatory vaccinations given even to children in the first year of life, which provokes all kinds of anti-vaccination movements. the amendments i tabled on the control of vaccines, the establishment of a compensation fund for serious vaccine complications, in particular the voluntary vaccination system in germany, scandinavia and 20 other countries - apart from the epidemic situation, of course - and the obligation to inform parents about possible side effects and to establish a register of vaccine reactions, have not been adopted, although such changes in the resolution would have led to greater transparency and would have prevented widespread fears and misinformation about the preventive vaccination campaign.
madam president! as a co-author of this resolution, i naturally voted in favour of its adoption. vaccines have become such a victim of their own success, in fact, that it is vaccines that have eliminated the greatest infectious plagues of our public health in europe and the world. unfortunately, they've become a victim of their own success, and some people have simply given up on them, because they think that these diseases, these threats, don't exist, and that's not true, like the return of measles among children, among the people of europe. and the second thing is, of course, fear, and that fear is constantly fueled by all kinds of anti-vaccine associations and campaigns. i think it is a good thing that this resolution has been adopted. i think that this is, of course, a matter for the member states, because that is the nature of the health system, but the european union should be involved in promoting best practices, increasing transparency and lowering the price of vaccines.
(starting speech from the microphone) ..has left me with a serious dilemma, because on the one hand its essence is fundamentally right to introduce a european protection order, but it is all soaked in such a feminist swamp that it is difficult to sign it. because of this dilemma, i asked my constituents for their opinion and they asked me to vote against it uncompromisingly - not because we have anything against the protection order, but because of the accompanying amendments - we buy sexist propaganda every second paragraph, we buy compulsory propaganda in schools and some extra commissioner for women. my constituents don't want that. i'm calling for you to stop pushing this already really overblown issue into every possible resolution - whether it's on trade, on the philippines, on climate, on the media. you're all boring and monotonous about this and i just can't listen to it anymore. you're obsessed with this, and i'm calling on you to stop destroying good projects with stupid inserts.
member of the commission. – mr president, firstly, i want to thank the house for having this opportunity to discuss this important sector of european industry. this is important for most of the european member states. let me start my remarks by looking at the wider context. as you maybe remember, in september last year, president juncker gave a very strong political signal about the need to make our industries stronger, and to make our industries more competitive. just a few weeks after this, we at the commission presented and adopted and comprehensive industrial policy strategy. the strategy addresses the remaining gaps with actions that this commission and this parliament can still carry out. even though time is rather short, i think we can still take action here. so, the document: our horizontal industrial strategies are empowering all sectors to innovate and to adapt. the ship building sector is one of many sectors within this framework, and some actions can be the same for all of them, although each sector has its own specifics. within this framework, we have also taken concrete action to support industrial transformation in specific sectors. and this is an exact example of what we are doing. the shipbuilding and maritime equipment industries are important from both an economic and social perspective as you rightly put it, honourable member. they have provided highly qualified jobs contributing to regional economic development, but the global market situation, as we all know, remains difficult for a number of companies in europe. against this background, leadership 2020, as adopted by all relevant stakeholders, constitutes an important initiative focusing on innovation, access to finance skills, market access and some incentives and, maybe, some support for shipyards and the maritime equipment industry. all of those topics and issues are commission priorities. as regards the first question, on the commission plan to support long-term competitiveness and growth, our leadership 2020 programme provides an action plan. most of the actions are to be decided and implemented by stakeholders themselves, but we are not resting on our laurels and are doing our job. some actions, especially regulatory ones or negotiations with third countries’ international organisations are for the commission to initiate or to follow. the second question, on how to preserve and support the high-tech and high-value competitive advantages of european shipbuilding. the very purpose of leadership 2020 exercise was to identify new opportunities in the areas of innovation, the application of new technologies for the purposes of greening and diversification into new markets. let me remind you that the recent historic decision by the global shipping industry to cut for the first time its greenhouse gas emissions is both a challenge but also an opportunity. it shows that leadership 2020, with its strong innovation and greening focus, remains fully valid. more particularly, under the research pillar of leadership 2020 we have actions to exploit new market opportunities and support zero-emission and energy-efficient vessels. the high-value competitive advantage of european shipbuilding cannot be preserved unless we maintain our human capital and the necessary know-how and related skills. so, in 2015, the commission endorsed the proposal by the maritime industry to set up a maritime european sectoral skills council as part of the eu-funded project entitled ‘creating a european skills council for the maritime technology sector’. another initiative which we are quite proud of is maritime technologies, one of the pilot priority sectors under the blueprint for sectoral cooperation on skills. we have chosen a few sectors – seven or eight – for the first round of financing, and the maritime sector is one of them. this was launched under the new skills agenda for europe in june 2016. most recently, under the erasmus+ sector skills alliances, we supported the project on maritime technologies with nearly eur 4 million funding. this project kicked off in 2018, just a few weeks ago. regarding your question on the need for a clear policy on the measures to target threats under the unfair international competition. let me say that, as you also rightly say, the shipbuilding nations in europe are too weak to cope with the competitive pressure from asia. again, this is exactly what our document leadership 2020 aims to change. the commission continues to negotiate in the framework of the oecd working group on shipbuilding. the sixth eu-china shipbuilding dialogue took place in march 27 last year in beijing. the objective was to address obstacles limiting business opportunities in china, for instance restrictions on ownership, local content requirements in granting subsidies, weak protection of intellectual property rights, etc. such exchanges do not bring immediate results, but they represent the only way forward to demonstrate the mutual benefits of fair trade relations to china and other countries. a word on foreign direct investment (fdi): europe needs to remain open to fdi. however, let’s not be naive, this openness cannot mean allowing transactions by foreign governments or state-owned foreign investors with a hidden agenda. they may seek to gain control of european companies, firms whose activities are critical for the eu or national security and public order. the fdi screening proposal, which is now in the hands of the parliament and the council, aims to target this issue. it provides a framework for screening fdi transactions that may pose a risk. critical infrastructure, like ports and shipyards, are included in the proposal. finally, a recent study commissioned by the commission on the new trends in globalisation in shipbuilding and maritime suppliers identifies a number of challenges but also – even more importantly – gives concrete recommendations. this commission has been discussing those recommendations with industry representatives and we will draw appropriate conclusions. this will also be a part of our discussion at the next mff.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i fully support the concern of the author of the interpellation and the questions to the european commission concerning the european maritime and shipbuilding sector, especially since the actions of the european commission so far have led to the collapse of the shipyards in poland. most famous for the events of december 70 and the creation of solidarity, gdańsk shipyard has built over a thousand ships during its activity. after regaining independence and joining the european union, public aid for important plants was found to be contrary to eu rules and the shipyards were asked to be privatised so that they would not need public money, with the threat of collapse and the loss of several hundred thousand jobs. the restructuring proposal was also rejected, giving only time to sell the assets of gdynia and szczecin shipyard, leaving the partially privatised gdańsk shipyard bought by the ukrainian company. the willingness to rebuild the industry as seen in the maritime economies of other eu countries was lacking. the shipbuilding industry, systematically destroyed over the past thirty years, is now being rebuilt thanks to the poles, the polish government, being one of the largest of its kind in europe, including eight large shipyards in gdańsk, gdynia, szczecin and świnoujście. the shipbuilding industry is of strategic importance for national security and it would be important to combat the risks of unfair competition.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. from the data presented here, it appears that the commission has chosen to fill the gap in the uk's contribution by taking a middle road: a slight increase in the burden on individual member states on the one hand, and on the other hand, a reduction in the two main policies: cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. i would just like to point out that, as i understand it, the so-called net payers, those who pay more than they receive, will probably defend themselves against these proposals. i would like to remind you that net payers are really just an accounting item, because in reality the majority of regional policy funds go to their economies. commissioner oettinger knows full well that 80 euro cents of every euro paid by germany goes to the german economy, so let us hope that this will be a way of convincing those who pay. i would urge further budgetary flexibility, that is to say the abolition of rebates (i know that this is announced, but the commission seems to have decided to spread it over the years) and also to end the reimbursement of unused funds. this would significantly improve budget flexibility. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to equalize direct subsidies. despite this reduction in cap resources, i hope that this will finally happen in the context of the next framework.
let me just make this very clear: our program is quite rich. the most important thing for us was that the commission, including president juncker, was present, and as far as the timing was concerned, it was part of what is known as good cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, i would like to stress that the european commission's proposal indicates that we are dealing with a change of approach. we are not just dealing with a change in the names of the individual budget chapters, but with a change in the approach to the budget's construction. and i wanted to note that because parliament will be looking very closely at the proposals what this change is and what the concept of changing the work in the budget is. and that's why it's so important to us that this design is convincing, but it's also safe. if it is based in part on own resources, it assumes that the member states agree on own resources, and if they do not agree, it is likely that even greater cuts will have to be made. as one of the rapporteurs, the co-rapporteur, i wanted to tell the commissioner clearly that parliament is not abandoning its proposal 1.3. parliament based its proposal on analyses. parliament expects the cohesion and agricultural policies to be maintained. and parliament expects a real debate to be held with member state governments on what they want to cut and on the justification for doing so. i wanted to say that parliament welcomes the european commission's proposal with interest, and we are prepared to work very hard, but we are not going to abandon our proposal because we think we need arguments to change our mind. we'll be looking at it very carefully, but hopefully the end result will be a little bit better.
i listened with interest to the oral presentation of the budget, which is not easy, because the budget is a number. we started with a powerpoint presentation in the committee on budgets, which is of course possible. but on the revenue side of the budget, we have some good news, although there is some confusion. an attempt has been made to reform the revenue side of the budget, which has been as much criticised as stable for many years. the new own resources are being introduced, and the announcement of a substantial simplification of the revenue side is being made, and all this is in keeping with the spirit and the letter of the european parliament's resolution. i think that the circumstances are more favourable this time than when i was personally in charge of the budget, because there is no longer a climate of austerity, no longer a climate of austerity in europe, there is a willingness to increase contributions. and brexit, which is normally a problem for us, is a window of opportunity. the first signs from the austrian presidency are also positive. all this is aimed at reducing the gni contribution to the european budget. the basket itself is not a surprise to us, but i do not quite understand how commissioner oettinger wants to collect 24 billion euros, which is 10% of the budget. in any case, it is certainly a prelude to reform that parliament will support, so let's get started.
this proposal for a multiannual financial framework is special. first, it's mainly about the post-brexit funding gap. secondly, there are new needs and new challenges. so does the philosophy of thrift or the formula of proportionate cuts seem right? in the first place, the deteriorating incomes of farmers, which account for about 50% of the incomes of other occupational groups, half of which is eu funds. secondly, the lack of young farmers and the ageing of the countryside. third, the lack of income and market stability. fourthly, the burden of agricultural work. fifth, lower living standards, poorer technical and social infrastructure, poorer access to services in rural areas. i therefore dare to say that the reduction of the cap for 2021-2027 is unfair in this situation. this will put many farms in europe in a difficult situation. this is all the more so as the current outlook for the common agricultural policy is 11.5% lower, i.e. by more than eur 40 billion. in this context, i would ask that the expenditure on the common agricultural policy be maintained at the current level.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for a multiannual financial framework is just the first step in the negotiations leading to a new eu budget for 20212027. some of the commission's proposals, such as increasing funding for youth initiatives, are optimistic. however, the planned reduction in funding for the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy is worrying. i therefore believe that these cuts should be corrected, inter alia, by increasing the national contributions to 1,3% of gni. i would also point out that, having learned from the experience of the recent mff negotiations, we must put particular emphasis on ensuring that the final budget allows us to implement the priorities of the european union effectively on the one hand, and that it is presented without undue delay on the other.
in writing. i see the commission's proposal for the eu's future long-term budget for 2021-2027, which was presented today, as a good starting point for a pragmatic but also representative vision of an economically strong europe to discuss the next multiannual financial framework. i would like to emphasise in particular the rudimentary aspect of the mff as a key element of the management of union expenditure, which ensures the effectiveness of its investment programmes, including those which are key to me, as a member and long-term budget rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, in the field of culture and education. i welcome the commission's emphasis on the real european added value that investments in the future mff must represent. in this context, i feel it necessary to underline the continued support for programmes in the fields of culture, education, youth, research and civil society, which have clearly demonstrated their strong european added value and are also enjoying unwavering popularity among beneficiaries. i also welcome the doubling of the erasmus+ budget and the substantial increase in the budget of the successor to horizon 2020 in the next financial perspective. however, i find the financial projections for the next generation of creative europe and europe for citizens to be highly unsatisfactory. in this context, i stress the crucial role of a substantial and balanced increase in commitment and payment appropriations and long-term coordinated investment to ensure the successful implementation of the objectives of these programmes in the post-2020 mff.
the next item is the report by mr marco vallego, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual audit report on the financial activities of the eib for the year 2016 (2017/2190(ini)) (a8-0139/2018).
mr. postman, i accept that your inquiry is admissible. we'll try to explain how this unusual situation came about.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. mr. chairman, please! last year, we had a visitor from luxembourg during this debate, and two years ago, and three years ago, and i can say that i am a member of parliament for the third term. the ebi president was always. i don't know what happened, and it's weird. ladies and gentlemen! unfortunately, the european investment bank, in my view, plays a smaller role, a weaker one than it did a few years ago. why would you do that? because suddenly it wanted to be a bank like the others, because it is more concerned now with the aaa rating, with these ratings, with these expert assessments, but it does not understand its special role, also in the context of the countries of the new union, the countries of our region. i think that the eib has closed its doors to investment in modern technologies, it has very much restricted those investments that are a little more risky, but without such investments there will be no economic progress in our europe. at the moment the eib is competing with commercial banks it's pointless, it's not this league, it was not created for this, among others with our european union participation. i think, in conclusion, mr president, i think that the eib is a special bank and it should not pretend to be just another bank, a commercial bank. he should take more risks with projects and investments.
we checked: the last time we visited president hoyer in strasbourg was on 7 february 2018, when we were discussing the annual report on the financial activities of the european investment bank. it was a debate. this is the first explanation that president hoyer and the ebi are not disrespecting our institution. why aren't they here today? that's a separate question.
investing is an art, and if it's a true art, it should also include the creative industries. unfortunately, it doesn't count. i would like to point out, not so much on behalf of the committee on culture as on behalf of the committee on culture, that we very often point out that the creative industries do not fit into the projects, do not fit into the priorities, do not fit into the instruments and the tools that the bank prefers in the framework of the efsi. and i'm drawing attention to this because the things that surround us -- the design objects, the start-ups -- very often are based on this creativity. and in short, i'm asking that we broaden the investment goals, that we pay attention to culture and that we take into account the power that is inherent in culture, in terms of, also, the financial effect.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president! - i have to go. there is no doubt that the primary responsibility of the eu institutions, as well as national institutions, is to look after taxpayers' money. the commission's 2016 report shows that the amount of irregularities reported as abuses amounts to eur 391 million per year. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. however, there is concern about the increase in vat fraud. the directive on the fight against fraud in the european union by means of criminal law (the pif directive) and the eppo regulation will certainly ensure effective protection of the union's financial interests, as they provide law enforcement authorities with the means they did not have in the past to fight corruption. the introduction of a whistleblower institution and the call on the commission and the member states to ensure that they are properly protected should also contribute to a more effective fight against fraud involving union funds. the publication by the commission of annual anti-corruption reports will also allow for better monitoring of the situation in the community. however, in order to prevent transnational fraud, it is necessary to establish closer cooperation between the member states in the area of eurofisc, olaf and eurojust. the establishment of an effectively functioning system for the exchange of information within the framework of a network of cooperation between member states will certainly contribute to further reducing transnational fraud.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in fact, what is needed is better coordination of what can be done today without introducing additional institutions or bodies. the european public prosecutor's office is by no means a panacea in the fight against corruption at eu level. first of all, there's a point, and i'm saying this based on... i'll say this very directly: in preparation for this debate, i spoke with the head of the polish anti-corruption services. he pointed out two things to me: first, the issue of bank secrecy extended in violation of the european union's anti-money laundering directives. we need to give more access to the accounts of various suspicious individuals and structures, we need to connect and coordinate. bank secrecy is often used in violation of eu directives. and the second issue is the coordination of data on tax systems in the individual member states in the european union. and that needs to be improved a lot, because there's a lack of coordination.
we actually have three areas of this kind of important potential activity. the first is fraud. and we have had some success in this area, with the reduction of the amount of various commitments that should de facto be in the eu budget from 600 million to 400 million. the second problem is the various loopholes. the loopholes in the law, the loopholes in the customs area, and that's where all these things go, which are mainly related to the trade in tobacco, trade in chinese goods, etc. there is a third area - the legislative area - where we are fortunately making progress, although we would all like to see it made faster and more efficiently. if we're talking about different bonuses, different discounts, it would be good to reduce them as soon as there are signs of abuse. and that's what i want to focus on.
member of the commission. madam president, i think that in our debate today it has become clear that the protection of the financial interests of the european union is of paramount importance, both to the commission and to you as fellow legislators, and i hope that we will continue to work together to improve this mechanism that is already working. there's been a lot of numbers. here i can tell you that in the cohesion policy, in the three years since i have been commissioner, we have seen a decline, but we have indeed seen a very large increase in the number of projects we are trying to check. but for the first time, the error rate was below 5%, of which only 0.5% is fraud. so the rest are irregularities, which are public procurement, and i believe that this new multiannual financial framework presented by president juncker and the commissioner for the budget today will also bring an improvement, a strengthening of the protection of financial interests, which is already very high on the agenda of the european commission. because for us what matters is the end result of the spending of european taxpayers' money. i am convinced and i know that the commission is not alone in this battle and we count on the support of the european parliament to continue this fight. i am convinced that on 29 may, when the commission presents the new sectoral rules, we will come up with more transparency, which was requested here, a simplification of the rules and, already in the omnibus procedure, we introduced some issues related to transparency and the fight against corruption, the need to have apparatus that we can rely on within the states, because it has unfortunately turned out that 70% of irregularities could have been detected at national level and were not reported. so, from this point of view, i would like to reply to mrs grappini and to those who have raised this issue in connection with the report: you know very well that integrity and the fight against corruption are highlighted in the european semester for each country; and to mr marias: i invite you to address the european commission, to address the commissioner for the budget, mr günther oettinger, i also invite you to address olaf with accurate data because, as the chairwoman said, i think what you have pointed out would be very serious if it were true. so thank you very much, and as i said, you can count on the european commission to encourage us, to stimulate us, to give us ideas on how we could better protect the interest and the money of european citizens and their impact on the ground. thank you very much, because i think that's where the trust and the connection between europeans and what we do is. perhaps we are not saying enough and i think it is a mistake to focus on it, there are indeed many irregularities, but on the other hand, overall, if we look at what cohesion policy, agricultural policy and how much they have contributed to the growth of gross domestic product, i am convinced that we need to see the big picture and not everything in black. on the fight against corruption, we are doing everything we can and working with the member states, with olaf, now more recently with the european public prosecutor's office, so we have every confidence that we can detect any irregularities in time to protect the european currency.
in writing. i am pleased that after four years of negotiations, we reached agreement in november 2016 on the proposal for a directive on combating the misuse of the union's financial interests by means of criminal law. in addition, recent analyses show that the total number of irregularities, fraudulent and non-fraudulent, reported in 2016 decreased by 15% compared to 2015 and the value of those irregularities decreased by 8% (from eur 3,21 billion in 2015 to eur 2,97 billion in 2016). it is worth remembering that not all irregularities constitute fraud and that they must be clearly distinguished from errors. in this context, it will be necessary to strengthen the european commission's cooperation with the member states in the detection of fraud. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's policy on the fight against fraud and corruption, and will continue to support the implementation of the eu's policy on the fight against fraud and corruption. in conclusion, preventive action by the european commission and olaf is needed to have a significant impact on reducing the level of fraud in the spending of eu funds. such actions include better implementation of the edes and the anti-fraud information system (afis) and the implementation of national anti-fraud strategies.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. the commissioner is here. it is not without reason that cohesion spending is the most exciting part of the debate on the future budget. the needs in this area are and will continue to be enormous, and many key infrastructure projects, including the most important of them, the ten-t, are still in the implementation phase. we need an integrated european transport network: not just motorways and high-speed railways, but also modern infrastructure with local and regional coverage, where capacity, congestion and safety problems are most acute. the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund must be kept at a high level, in particular because the objectives of cohesion policy have still not been achieved and the differences between the state of infrastructure in the eastern and western parts of the union are still very visible.
we are discussing a report on the european union's transport routes and their financing. around one third of the european structural and investment funds allocated to transport networks are well received by the citizens of the union. as the report points out, road congestion in europe costs about 1% of the annual gdp of the eu countries. the report explicitly mentions the modernisation of the kraków-rzeszów railway in point f. it would be good to continue this policy on the eastern flank of the european union and to support the development of multimodal transport networks, i.e. rail, road and water. paragraph 8 refers to transboundary waterways, so i would urge you to reserve the necessary funds for the e40 waterway, which is to connect the baltic sea with the black sea and part of which is to pass through my district of lublin.
in writing. the situation in the european union in terms of transport capacity is unfortunately getting worse every year. this is due to the increasing frequency of the free movement of citizens within the european union and the increase in the volume of goods transported. this reflects the annual increase in production, especially in the last three years, and the development of cooperation links. the only effective way to solve the transport problems is to establish an efficient and integrated european transport area. expansion of rail and inland waterway services would be particularly important. a genuine common european market for rail services requires that it be open to competition, that freight corridors be managed in an integrated manner and that access to rail infrastructure be non-discriminatory. inland waterway transport is still an underestimated form of transport. the development of the euro area still contains very large reserves, the release of which would require the removal of numerous technical, organisational and legal barriers. it is the most economically and socially efficient form of transport, with the added benefit of a positive environmental impact.
in writing. the crime of stalking, or harassing others, can take drastic forms. it can lead to legitimate concerns about life and health, and it can create a sense of invasion of privacy. it can occur in work situations as well as in private ones. today, it is punishable by law in most european union member states. my country introduced a provision to the penal code a few years ago. at the same time, allegations of this crime should be treated with caution. if the concept of harassment were to be interpreted radically, any attempt to make contact that is not desired by the other person could be a criminal offence. such an interpretation risks dehumanizing human contact, as we would be afraid to enter into any extra-professional relationships because of the risk of being considered harassed. so i hope that the interpretation of this law, while it makes sense in quite a number of cases, will not be extended beyond common sense. it should be noted that this crime occurs most often in two situations: harassment by former partners (where women are the most frequent victims) and in the online environment (mainly on social media). fortunately, however, these cases are usually relatively easy to prove. but there is no awareness that such behavior is punishable. this is why victims often do not report crimes to the police and the relevant institutions should work hard to raise awareness of the possibility of legal action.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i will not repeat the europol data, because our colleagues have already said everything, and our colleagues have said it best. hilde vautmans told me what was going on. these are terrible things: sexual abuse, modern slavery, not to mention the worst things, and robert metsola talked about the good remedies that need to be taken. but all this, especially in the face of the helplessness of the government (for example, the swedish government, which was alerted by its own ombudsman), does not relieve us from the question: who brought all this about, who encouraged these children, for the most part - i repeat what the commissioner said - without parental care, to embark on this dangerous path. i'm not just talking about illegal human trafficking - it's the first thing we have to fight - but there's no escaping the responsibility of the politicians who encouraged it and exposed these children to it.
for a debate to take place, there should be two positions. the states are all agreeing with each other, so i'm going to try to take that burden and say something else. first of all, parliament is once again forgetting that it is the parliament of europe, not the parliament of the whole world. and this proselytizing of yours is really hard to bear, hard to bear. secondly, this parliament is not even the european parliament, because the european value is the belief in the absolute superiority of man over animals, and what you are doing here is a far-reaching relativism. it is a scandal that in europe in the 21st century animals are better protected than unborn people. it's a scandal that you prefer to have the first tests of cosmetics done on humans. if we're talking about living organisms, people are going to test these cosmetics because you're afraid the mice will burn their gums. i also think it is a scandal and a betrayal of centuries-old european values.
in writing. sheep and goat farming in the european union is an important traditional agricultural activity supporting thousands of producers and providing products of exceptional quality and characteristics, as well as derived products (meat, milk and wool). as the sector has suffered losses in recent years, the agri committee agreed that it deserves special attention. the report covers a wide range of issues: grazing habits, predator threats, health and welfare (including transport of animals), products, electronic identification, standardisation of carcasses, poor financial stability and low farm incomes, declining consumption, preparation and promotion of lamb. competitive pressure from imports from third countries is also increasing. the rapporteur sees an urgent need to take action to ensure a profitable and sustainable future for sheep and goat meat production in europe. it shall encourage the production of products of this origin and attract new young goat and sheep farmers. it also recommends maintaining this traditional and environmentally friendly farming activity. the rapporteur also calls for the establishment of an eu implementation task force to ensure that specific measures are adopted over the next two years to secure the future of the sheep and goat sectors in europe. i am voting in favour of this report, for the sake of european agriculture.
mr. chairman, please! this report, produced under the direction of mrs spinelli, illustrates the difficulties of our policy. and very often, when we're tackling a major problem, we quickly run into these iron barriers of politics or ideology. why, ladies and gentlemen, is this report not talking about the situation of the nations of central europe that were liberated from communism, especially in the 1990s, but also long afterwards, when millions of people did not have, did not really hear their voice in the media and it was necessary to involve the public authorities in the promotion of pluralism, freedom of speech? is it because that's what's happening in hungary today? or how, when it comes to freedom of speech, can we be silent about the introduction of new forms of open censorship, such as the deplorable law banning journalistic obstructing abortion in france? if we remain silent about these forms of censorship, we remain silent about freedom of speech.
we all agree that freedom of speech and expression are fundamental human rights. however, i think the report on this is too long, too much information and too much emphasis. the european parliament has also called for the european union to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the text does not condemn the dissemination of totalitarian views, especially communism, in the media. you don't see that there's a worldview asymmetry in the media, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. there are significantly fewer, and often no, christian and catholic media outlets. in poland, the only national catholic television broadcasts trwam and radio maryja, which are constantly under attack. it should be noted that this is not a criticism but a suggestion to use fake news or smear, as you have told the rapporteur. especially for their founder from the liberal media outlets in poland, but with foreign capital. many concerned polish citizens are writing complaints to the ministry of justice, asking for intervention. it would be good if this problem were also seen in such a resolution.
in writing. in december 2014, a report was published on the monitoring carried out by the centre for media pluralism and media freedom in nine member states on behalf of the commission. at that time, risks arising from concentration, lack of transparency and ownership structure were identified in nine countries. earlier, in 2013, a report was published entitled a free and pluralistic media to sustain european democracy. in this report, the authors identify barriers and obstacles of both political and economic nature, commercial pressures and the impact of new media on media systems, which destabilise the guarantee of freedom and pluralism in the member states. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, which are not yet in force in the member states. while the primary responsibility for creating and maintaining media freedom and pluralism lies with the member states, the eu itself can play a positive role in this process. the union should, above all, protect fundamental rights and democracy in the event of a threat in one or more member states.
in writing. by adopting the treaty of lisbon, the european union defined itself as a community of values, with human rights as its cornerstone. freedom of expression and information is recognised worldwide as one of the fundamental elements of the human rights framework and fundamental freedoms in modern society. freedom of expression and pluralistic and independent media are not only human rights in themselves, but also play an essential social role as a tool of public oversight, providing citizens with protection from abuses in the pursuit of state or private interests and enabling them to participate actively in democratic life. the main threats to freedom of expression include areas such as: violence, threats and pressure on journalists even today in the member states of the european union journalists continue to be the target of deadly attacks the digital environment have undoubtedly provided new and profoundly transformative tools for participatory democracy, extending it in a revolutionary way and giving citizens, who are already users of information, the ability to create it. the other side of the coin is the risk of misinformation inherent in the viral spread of online content, the difficulty of challenging and correcting it in a timely manner and to a large extent, and the possibility of censorship by social media platforms and tech giants.
recently, the prime minister of the free state of bavaria, markus söder, decided to put up crosses in government buildings. in its reasoning, it claims that the cross is a visible sign of adherence to the fundamental values, order, legal and social order in bavaria and in germany, and is a symbol of the identity of its country. i think not only him, but all the countries of the european union. it would therefore be good to extend this initiative to the eu institutions, the european parliament. as the leader of the largest political group in the epp, which is based on the traditions and values of the chadian people, is manfred weber, the csu mep from bavaria, i encourage him and expect him to come out with a similar proposal in brussels and strasbourg, which will be strongly supported not only by me but also by many other conservative meps.
the european commission announced today that it would restrict the budgetary rights of countries accused of violating the rule of law. but the european union, as the treaty on european union clearly states, is made up of states that respect the rule of law. to conclude that one of our countries is failing to do so, on the basis of the differences between us, would require a unanimous opinion from all the countries in the european council, and to conclude that there is such a risk would require the agreement of at least 22 countries. the european commission has no such rights. so what's the deal? firstly, it seems that we are dealing with an attempt to obtain budgetary resources at the expense of those countries whose policies are not to the liking of the current ones, and whose mandate is still one year away, the authorities of the european union. and secondly, the attempted use of financial instruments to exert political pressure. both are a direct contradiction of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. and the european union authorities should back off these threats as soon as possible.
i thank you, mr prime minister, for being here and especially for the belgian hospitality, because we spend half our time here in brussels, working in belgium. i am talking about the european problem, not just the problem of the european union, but of the whole of europe. five days ago you had a very interesting visit to moscow, during which you had an intimate conversation in novo-ogaryovo with president vladimir putin. you have proposed to rethink economic relations between the european union and russia, and especially between belgium and russia. at the end of your trip, during a lecture at a high school of commerce, you advocated, quoting machiavelli, the idea of peace through trade. do you not think that this statement is a mockery of our policy of sanctions and especially of solidarity with the countries of central europe, which are now worried about russia's aggressive policy?
prime minister of belgium. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, several important points have been raised, and i will respond to some of them. the question of free trade, of free trade, is obviously an important one. machiavelli was quoted earlier. i believe very strongly in the virtues of free trade, provided there is reciprocity, provided there are social and environmental standards. maria arena is well aware that many free trade agreements are based on negotiating mandates, sometimes given many years ago, which do not take into account certain positive developments, which are necessary in terms of social and environmental standards. it is on the basis of this approach that i have written down belgium's position. it is in this context that i, unlike you, have supported ceta and it is in this context that i want to defend the situation of farmers in a very consistent and coherent way, by defending reciprocity, by not accepting, for example in the case of mercosur, a negotiating mandate which goes back a long way in the past, and that farmers are somehow an adjustment variable in the negotiation. that's the first point. i will also point out another extremely important subject which was mentioned and which i did not mention in my introductory speech , namely the situation in the western balkans. i was in the western balkans a few days ago to meet my serbian and albanian counterparts and i am one of those who believe that europe must be much more committed, much more mobilised to help stabilise the region. i think europe is underestimating how fundamental this issue is and i wonder if we should not consider appointing a special envoy of the european union with real mediation capacity so that, as we are doing, in a way, with michel barnier in the case of brexit, we have a full-time personality with the authority, support and legitimacy to be able to really contribute to stabilising and securing the region. it is in this context that we can effectively exploit the processes of relations between the european union and this region, in an attempt to make progress in favour of our own stability and security. several questions were also asked about convergence and cohesion. i would like to confirm that the challenge is to develop a capacity for economic and also social convergence at european level, which i welcome. i am pleased with the initiatives of the european commission, the role of jean-claude juncker and the role of the european commissioners in our fight for social rights. that is a first important step that was taken a few months ago in gothenburg. now it is the responsibility of the countries, with the support of the european commission, to make further progress, to ensure more cooperation, more results and more convergence. that must also be an important goal in my eyes. mrs vautmans, of course i agree with you on a stronger european commitment. i also know your strong personal european commitment. you have made an important point. i'm not sure. we have in belgium initiatives under the name of non-guided minors with the support of the länder which are competent in this area. but i'm really prepared to hire you for that. this is indeed an important challenge for the future. bridges have been made with police and security cooperation. i also link it to the schengen area. i want the schengen area. i think this is a very important issue and it is because i care about the schengen area that i believe we must be able to guarantee security to guarantee free movement, to make progress in terms of border protection and to implement an orderly policy, as i said, on migration. an important point was made about the knowledge society. lisbon, you know. i am consequently one of the first to advocate a multi-speed europe. i think we must do everything we can to ensure that we can move forward with those who want to, without being blocked by some who would like to either not move forward or take more time before moving forward. this is the sense of my reasoning, which i hope i have been able to detail on the paper in a hurry. finally, mr president, i thank you for this debate and for this exchange, which reflect the vitality of what the european model is all about: the rule of law, democracy, the peaceful confrontation of ideas in mutual respect. as voltaire said, i don't necessarily share your beliefs, but i will fight for your freedom to express them. i also want to greet the press who are following our work on this important day of press freedom. even in europe, guaranteeing the daily freedom of the press is a challenge that must involve all of us. i mentioned earlier the qualities of those who have been at the heart of the progress towards a concrete, tangible european project, peace, prosperity, stability and freedoms. courage, optimism and confidence are probably the key to moving in the right direction. europe for the future!
in writing. i would like to draw the prime minister's attention to the importance of high-quality and inclusive education in shaping europe's future, both economically and socially. in the context of the creation of the european education area, we need to set ambitious targets, the achievement of which will contribute to the development of a knowledge-based europe, increased competitiveness, social cohesion and lifelong learning opportunities. i also stress the role of educational mobility for students, researchers and administrative staff as a key to developing new skills and attitudes, deepening intercultural understanding and strengthening european unity. in this context, it is important to guarantee equal opportunities for all under the new erasmus+ programme and to integrate mobility into educational programmes. greater support for teachers is also key, as a necessary pillar for pupil and student success and the development of quality education. i strongly support and encourage the establishment of a european teaching and learning academy to promote teacher cooperation, improve the quality of teaching and support the professional development of teachers.
we are improving the protection of the european union's financial interests and this is without doubt the most valuable comment on this matter. but unfortunately, we do it first, very slowly, and second, unfortunately, inconsistently. i don't trust the data that's presented in the report itself. i think they are underestimated, but we must make sure that the european parliament and the european institutions are able to react more effectively and quickly to the various irregularities. we exchanged them yesterday: we exchanged tobacco trade, we exchanged counterfeits from china, we also exchanged the improperly taxed digital market, and the errors in the implementation of programmes that have been mentioned many times in this room: the common agricultural policy, the cohesion policy. we must - and i stress this again - be more efficient, more consistent and more responsive.
the committee on budgets drew attention to the lack of quality in this document, the committee on transport and tourism to the geographical imbalance, but these were not the only comments on this report. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was higher than the average price of the product concerned in the union market. i would like to point out two very important things: there are only four areas that are actually funded by these funds - i will remind you that this is about 80 billion - and these are environment, small businesses, innovation and infrastructure. the lack of creative players is the main thing, as i point out in the report itself, and also, above all, the lack of funds invested in soft projects that would improve the quality of everything that is related to the creative industries. i'm making that point for the second time today.
madam president, the european sheep and goat sectors are in very serious trouble. the high rate of decline in the sector and the ageing of farmers, combined with various health crises, have seriously destabilised the sector. these sectors have always been the poor relatives of livestock farming and the difficulties they face are accentuated by the adverse effects of globalisation and free trade agreements. the report sets out a number of measures to improve the situation, including a protected status for the wolf, lower labelling requirements for small farms, lower greening requirements for the cap, a focus on open-air farming and traditional grazing methods, and a challenge to the presence of these meats in free trade agreements. i therefore supported this report.
madam president! we learned at the last session in strasbourg that eu regulations have destroyed the market for organic products. now we learn that they have destroyed sheep and goat production in europe as well. you have brought this about by your regulations, that on a continent where the breeding of goats and sheep has been part of the cultural heritage for centuries, this market is now in a state of rapid decline. you've made it more profitable to import goat meat from new zealand halfway around the world than to grow it locally. well, instead of stopping interfering, you're going to educate consumers to buy more goat milk, and subsidize the local goat farm. stop, for god's sake, getting involved in this, because in a minute, the pig farmers are going to come in and ask you what pigs are worse than goats at, and why they have to put up with unfair competition from goat farmers.
madam president! the own-initiative report on pluralism and media freedom in the european union contains a number of important issues. however, some of the provisions concerning new forms of restrictions on freedom of expression or the lack of guarantees for pluralism are unacceptable to me. that's why i abstained. the recordings ignore the need to restore the conditions of the former societies, in totalitarian media, where communities considered hostile by the communist authorities were persecuted and their views were ignored or stigmatized. similarly, changes in the treatment of defamation can lead to the public destruction of people behind the veil of freedom of the press and media debate. which is used to fight against those who think differently or have views far from political correctness, and civil cases are blamed on the victims. it is also illegal to invoke the istanbul convention, which has not been ratified by one third of the countries of the union.
madam president! we use the 2013 resolution, as well as the media pluralism monitor an instrument that may be imperfect, but it is good that it is there, and it is good that it is also mentioned in this report. but looking back at the period between 2013 and now, we can't be satisfied. none, and i emphasize none. the journalists killed in slovakia, malta, the attack in ireland, but also the 120 journalists in prison in turkey - that's the reality. on the other hand, we have to remember one more element: we don't know today what's more on the web, what's more on the internet. is it fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, fake news, i would also like to draw attention to the cyberattacks and the propaganda that is being carried out in europe for the benefit of outside countries. all these elements must be combined to create more effective mechanisms for controlling media freedom and media truth.
madam president! i voted against this resolution because, despite its pleasant title of protecting media freedom, it contains many of the harmful regulations typical of brussels. for example, in the first paragraph, it calls for funding of the media in order to ensure their independence. ladies and gentlemen, if the media is funded by the government, it will not be independent, it will be dependent on the government. and that's probably the worst kind of dependency that can be for the media. and you're going to interfere with the internet access policy. well, it's gonna be like the goats and the sheep in a few years, that we're gonna have to save a failing sector soon, if you guys are gonna get involved again. we're gonna have to translate chinese websites to find out. you want to put the right to access the internet in the bill of rights, what's that supposed to look like? this means that others will be obliged to provide that person with access to the internet if he has the right to access it, whether he has paid for it or not. who's going to do it? and why should one man live at the expense of another?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to address you on the first plenary since we adopted the first mobility package. this was the last set of proposals under the energy union, and i am proud that we managed to deliver on this ambitious project well ahead of the end of the mandate. this should leave us enough time to negotiate the entire energy union into law and leave it as a significant legacy of this mandate. miguel and violeta will explain the third mobility package in detail, but allow me to set the tone and the context. i am sure that, whichever constituency or political party you come from, you will appreciate the main objectives: road safety, clean mobility, inclusion and boosting of our industrial competitiveness. first, on safety. the number of fatalities on eu roads has been, unfortunately, still the same for some years already. it is simply too high. 26 000 fatalities per year or 70 fatalities per day is simply too many, and we know that today we can definitely save more lives, and it is our duty to do so. that is why we propose infrastructure improvements, and we will have new advanced safety features which will become obligatory in three years. these include automatic emergency braking, lane-keeping assist and distraction recognition or technology facilitating the use of alcohol interlocks. this is also one of the reasons why we are paving the way for connected and automated driving. of course, the advantages are numerous: serving to increase the inclusion of people who cannot drive or have no access to a car, boosting europe’s competitive advantage and creating new, quality jobs. by 2025 we expect automated mobility to generate revenues of eur 620 billion for the eu automotive industry and eur 180 billion for our electronic sector. the majority of europe’s population is in favour of trying driverless cars, but of course there are still legitimate concerns. surely, a lot of work remains until we can rely on this technology. significant investments will be needed to develop and deploy the key technologies and to create the necessary infrastructure support. that is why we need a joined-up eu strategy. from safety to connectivity. let me move on to sustainability. transport is responsible for almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions, and this share is growing, as opposed to other sectors. that is why, for the first time, the eu is proposing co2 standards for new heavy-duty vehicles. other major economies like the us, canada, japan and china already have them, so it’s about time we caught up. our proposals for 2025 and 2030 are both realistic and ambitious, and they incentivise the trade users to catch the low-hanging fruit of existing solutions, but they also leave enough time for new technologies to be developed. this brings me to the strategic action plan on batteries. i think by now we all realise that battery production is a strategic imperative, and we have to move fast in this global race. it has huge potential for investment and jobs – we are talking about eur 250 billion per year as of 2025. with this action plan we put forward a robust set of measures, for example ensuring access to critical raw materials and limiting their use; stepping-up eu research and innovation to better link it with industry’s future needs; establishing robust regulatory requirements for safe and sustainable battery production to comply when placed on eu markets; developing the skills we need in europe to deploy the next generation of high-performing, sustainable battery technology. as you might know, we are already working with member states, the european investment bank (eib) and industrial consortia to support large-scale manufacturing projects in europe as a part of the eu battery alliance, and i would like to thank the honourable members of this house for setting up the ‘friends of batteries’ group, because i am sure in the future months and years it will have a lot to discuss. to conclude, i would like to underline that this is the last time a legislative package will be proposed under the energy union strategy. it is clear that the energy union and its transition to clean energy will have a strong, long-term positive impact on all of us and on the future of our mobility. together, with my colleagues, we are looking forward to discussing with you this package in greater detail, and i hope we can accelerate the legislative adoption of the energy union files. we now rely on you to make sure that you transform these proposals into binding laws.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is the first time ever a proposal has been made to set co2 standards for heavy-duty vehicles. we need this new legislation for three key reasons. first, we need to tackle the growing emissions of this sector, which are set to increase by almost 10% by 2030. second, we want to support transport operators and help them to reduce their fuel costs. third, we want to keep europe’s industrial leadership, as other key countries such as the united states, china and japan have already regulated this sector. to address these challenges, we propose ambitious and realistic targets: a mandatory target of -15% for 2025 and an aspirational target of at least -30% for 2030 compared to 2019. the european commission is convinced that the targets proposed strike the right balance. the 2025 target can be achieved with technologies which are already available on the market but are not yet widely deployed, even though their costs are low. furthermore, an early review is foreseen in 2022 to set the 2030 target based on additional information on the new technologies needed to meet this target. the proposal will apply initially to the four most representative categories of vehicles, which are responsible for almost 10% of heavy-duty vehicle emissions. the review will also be the occasion to expand the scope of the proposal to all remaining categories of heavy-duty vehicles, including buses and coaches. the package also contains additional policy measures to help us meet these targets. manufacturers will be able to put on the market more rounded and aerodynamic heavy-duty vehicles, reducing emissions and improving road safety. tyre labelling will be improved and extended to heavy-duty vehicles generating significant annual fuel savings for consumers and transport operators. besides the targets, the proposal includes an incentive system to speed up our transition to zero- and low-emission heavy-duty vehicles. today around 98% of our trucks rely on diesel. there are virtually no large zero-emission trucks on european roads, and few zero-emission buses in cities. we want to support these technologies and foster innovation by proposing an incentive scheme. this system of super credits will reward those manufacturers who will invest more in innovative technologies while preserving the environmental integrity of the co2 targets. it also includes zero-emission buses, which are needed for cleaner air in cities. in conclusion, the key benefits of these proposals are that we will fight climate change and improve air quality; transport operators, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, will save money at the pump – this proposal will help them save eur 25 000 in fuel costs in the first five years of the use of a new truck; we will keep and create new jobs here in europe; we will use and import less oil, and the proposal will in total save more than 200 million tonnes of oil up to 2040; and last but not least we will set the right conditions to invest and innovate here in europe. i look forward to continuing our fruitful cooperation with the rapporteur mr turmes, the shadow rapporteurs and the whole parliament, to ensure swift progress and the adoption of this proposal before the end of the mandate of this parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am really pleased to be here with colleagues to present to you yet another set of important mobility reforms, the third and final package of its kind by the commission. as the vice-president already highlighted, the objective of the third mobility package is to let all europeans benefit from safer traffic, less polluting vehicles and more advanced transport technologies, while simultaneously supporting eu industrial competences and competitiveness. concretely, the package sets out measures to support the transition to mobility that is safe, clean, connected, automated and inclusive. let me first say a couple of words on safety. safety is always our top priority. i am a firm believer in vision zero, our ambition to reduce death and serious injuries on european roads to zero by 2050. we have made some progress lately: we recorded the lowest fatality rate ever last year, roughly a 2% decrease compared to 2016. but still, last year, 25 300 europeans lost their lives on eu roads. all these lives lost are irreplaceable. and this comes with an enormous cost to society, emotional and financial. this is why the eu needs a fresh approach, and this is what we are delivering. with the third mobility package, we set out principles for a new road safety framework for the next decade based on the so-called safe system. this idea is to build a number of protective layers that protect all road users. it takes into account all factors: infrastructure, vehicle safety and design, and people’s behaviour. in this framework, we are setting new targets on the way to vision zero. between 2020 and 2030 we want to cut the number of deaths and serious injuries by half. there is an action plan in which you can see all the measures that we are planning. the first two elements that are already part of the package are legislative proposals on infrastructure and vehicles. we are proposing to make a number of new vehicle safety technologies mandatory, and the vice—president has already mentioned many of them so i will not repeat them. this will make sure that all road users will be able to benefit from the latest developments in technology. this will bring important benefits and pave the way to automated mobility. we are also proposing to improve the rules on infrastructure safety management, not only applying these rules to the roads of the ten-t networks, which are already by far the safest ones – only 8% of fatalities happen on the core corridors – but also extending them to other main roads where 39% of all fatalities happen. this is the largest share of all, and that is why we are introducing network-wide risk mapping which will show us which eu roads are the safest and which ones are less so. but more importantly, that will set priorities for our future investments in infrastructure. second, let me say a couple of words on autonomous mobility. with the third mobility package we are proposing a strategy to make the eu an engaging global leader in autonomous mobility systems. autonomous mobility holds the enormous promise of making transport safer, more accessible, inclusive and sustainable, and on cooperative, connected and automated mobility the commission sets out a clear forward-looking and ambitious european agenda based on three core pillars. first, a legal framework that creates a single market for autonomous mobility covering road safety, cyber security, access to data and data protection. second, financial support to establish a new partnership for a sector-wide approach towards research and development. and the third pillar is an in-depth assessment of the socio-economic and ethical aspects of autonomous mobility. we are also proposing to digitalise and simplify the communication from business to administration, and from administration to administration in freight transport. the regulation on electronic freight transport information will ensure the wide use and acceptance of electronic documents and information exchange among all players involved in cargo transport operation. for example, e-consignment notes will now follow the cargo from source to final destination regardless of the transport mode used. the potential for efficiency gains in all transport modes over 2018 to 2040 are estimated at eur 20-27 billion. the regulation on the european maritime single window environment will establish harmonised reporting interfaces, procedures and data formats for ships calling at eu ports. this will cut red tape and contribute to multimodal solutions even further. very quickly, on clean mobility, it has been really well described already by my colleague mr arias cañete, but let me add that to facilitate further co2 reductions, the commission also proposes to allow manufacturers to bring new heavy goods vehicles earlier onto the market with more rounded and aerodynamic-effect cabs and help reach the future co2 standards for trucks. such cabins will also be safer, give better visibility to drivers, as well as improved comfort. we also propose improved labelling for tyres. last but not least, investments and infrastructure. infrastructure is a vital tool for the deployment of clean, safe, digital and connected solutions in transport systems. to make sure we deliver the core trans-european transport network on time by 2030, the package proposes a regulation on streamlining measures for advancing the implementation of the trans-european transport core network, the so-called smart ten-t regulation. it aims to simplify permit granting, cross-border public procurement and other procedures, with a view to delivering better administrative efficiency. our initiative will significantly reduce delays as permits should be granted within three years and cut the related costs. i am also pleased to announce that the commission’s proposals in the mobility package are accompanied by an additional eur 450 million of cef funds to support safe mobility and digitalisation across transport modes. the outcome of this cef transport call should be announced in the first quarter of 2019. i hope for your strong support for these ambitious measures and look forward to working with you on all these proposals.
thank you very much, commissioner. ladies and gentlemen! it is not often that the commission, in the form of speeches by three commissioners, promotes its proposals to us. so you've reached out to us, and now, please, listen to what we have to say in this room. as is the custom, mr wim van de camp will speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
thank you very much, mr. zorrinho. may i take this opportunity to wish you a very happy birthday. the court of auditors
mr president, most importantly, a good job, madam rapporteur, on the optimisation of the value chain. i fully support reciprocity when it comes to the trade agreements. imported goods should fully comply with the same quality standard rules as eu fishing products. tough competition, including from abroad, is a reality of many fishery businesses around europe. secondly, we need to invest in young people, engage and empower the next generation of fishermen, but in order to achieve this, we need money for training and educational opportunities. at the same time, we need to conserve fisheries and support our coastal communities through research, education, outreach, as well as leadership development. lastly, i fully agree that we should expend and promote information provided by the eu market observatory for fisheries and aquaculture products (eumofa). our job here is to study different dependencies and processes and to point out how best to maximise benefits for the sector.
mr. chairman, please! the solutions proposed today will have an impact over a decade. for agriculture, this is an exceptionally long period. so what could happen? thousands more farms will collapse, already foreshadowed by the lack of young farmers and the ageing of the countryside. what are the reasons for this? there are many reasons: first, low incomes in agriculture; second, lack of price and market stability; third, poor technical and social infrastructure in rural areas and low level of services; fourth, high labour costs in agriculture; and fifth, unfavourable international trade agreements. this translates into a lower standard of living for farmers. these adverse processes are leading to over-concentration and industrialisation of production, and to the disappearance of the european model of agriculture, sustainable agriculture, environmentally friendly agriculture. the proposed drastic cuts in the common agricultural policy over 15% will also undermine our competitiveness on the world market and consequently lead to a breach of food security, which seems unthinkable, but is possible.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the report we are discussing today contains some proposals that deserve attention, such as rejecting the renationalisation of the cap while transferring to the member states the decision on the shape of national agricultural policies, maintaining the cap's dual nature, limiting direct payments to large farms and ensuring that direct payments go to farmers producing crops or livestock. but despite these positives, i would draw attention to the provision in paragraph 64 of the report which says that it is impossible to fully equalise direct payments between the new and the old member states because of production costs, in particular land costs and the purchasing power of money. in my view, if this inequality continues beyond 2020, the commission will be liable to be accused of discriminating against agriculture in the countries of central and eastern europe, and the dispute in this case may be referred to the court of justice of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of polish farmers, in accordance with the accession treaty and the resolutions of the polish parliament, i demand that the process of full equalization of direct payments between member states be completed. i am opposed to further discrimination against polish farmers who have to compete on an unequal basis, for example with their german neighbours. i do not agree that the equalization of subsidies is conditional on the absurd, unfair criteria set out in the dorfmann report, which, instead of equalising living standards and closing the gap between countries, creates a lower category of farmers in the european union. poland my country has been a member of the european union for 14 years. the union assured polish farmers in the accession treaty that the gradual levelling-off of subsidies would be completed in 2013, ten years after accession. it is 2018 and the discrimination against farmers from the so-called new member states is still not over. the maintenance of the existing unfair direct subsidy scheme is contrary to articles 18 and 40 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. i consider the debate on the future of food production and agriculture to be extremely important and necessary. i am glad that mr dorfmann's report has touched on such important issues as the need to ensure an adequate level of funding for the common agricultural policy and the fair distribution of direct payments between member states. however, i would like to draw attention to a specific and serious threat to the future of agriculture, and more specifically to pig farming, namely the african swine fever epidemic, which has been spreading more and more in the countries of central and eastern europe for the last four years, threatening other countries of the union as well. i would like to stress that without decisive action in solidarity, the future of pig farmers throughout the european union will be seriously threatened, and i therefore call on the commission to pay particular attention to this problem.
mr. chairman, please! the introduction of the new cap reform and the modern approach to its implementation should be entrusted in the first instance to young farmers. they have better competence, better management skills, a greater openness to innovation. the rapporteur and the commissioner spoke of the barriers young farmers face, particularly in the many national arrangements for counting, taxing and land acquisition. they require good solutions, more open to farmers. in the past we have spoken a lot about financial instruments, their role in the cap. i hope they will be reflected in the european commission's legislative proposals and in the national strategic plans. i think the young farmers will take it. guarantees, guarantees, they make it easy to access capital. the solutions for innovation and the introduction of new technologies should also be based more on young farmers to use this as their development opportunities. they're more open to knowledge and intelligent development. finally, young farmers need rural development as a place to live.
in writing. the participation of young farmers and the renewal of generations in the agricultural sector are essential to maintain profitable food production, as they ensure the sustainable development and long-term competitiveness of european agriculture. the recent cap reform has given particular attention to this issue, by increasing the scope of rural development policy measures and introducing a new programme for young farmers as additional support under direct payments. despite these efforts, it appears that the current measures are not sufficient and that some adjustments will be necessary in the future. the report calls on member states to give priority to new entrants and young farmers in access to agricultural land. to address this problem, the direct payment system needs to be reassessed and incentives for older farmers to hand over to younger generations. it is also recommended to focus on reducing additional barriers for young farmers, i.e. access to capital, lack of business skills and insufficient succession plans. the reduction of administrative barriers should also be addressed. i shall vote in favour of the report, for the sake of the young polish farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. i am very pleased that you have considered this connecting europe programme to be very important. it was a fund that served well for the integration and modernization of infrastructure in the european union. the question of its future after 2020 is really a question of the future of the trans-european networks and the regional projects associated with them. the key element of this project european transport corridors is still unfinished. not only is stable funding for this project needed in the next budgetary perspective, but also increased investment expenditure, inter alia, in the inland transport area. we are also facing new challenges for which the means are needed: the real, not just the apparent, transition to low-emission transport, the development of autonomous mobility and the whole package of ambitious targets that the commission sets itself in the third part of the mobility package. connecting europe (...) the whole architecture of infrastructure financing, which could be seriously jeopardised by drastic cuts in cohesion policy. the connecting europe facility cannot fall victim to the same austerity policies. in other words, more money, commissioner.
mr. chairman, please! since the institutions of the european union are actively interested in upholding the rule of law, i want to draw attention to the campaign of hatred, especially against catholics in poland, which is based on slander, based on slander by left-liberal-feminist circles spreading false information to lead to elimination. the attacks of hatred and blasphemy have long been directed at the founder of radio maryja and television trwam and many other works serving poland and my nation. i am raising this issue in the european parliament because hate campaigns are being conducted in an unacceptable way, through polish-language media, but with completely non-polish capital, and anti-polish rhetoric has been used for a long time. as we know from the history of france and soviet russia, the struggle against religion has often resulted in the creation of a violent apparatus that has reaped the harvest of crime and persecution in the millions. not only media attacks of a potentially criminal nature unjustifiably discriminate against both the priest and the entire community of fellow believers, they fight against independent media without any consequences.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the debate on the multiannual financial framework is one of parliament's key debates on the future of the european union. in discussing the multiannual financial perspective, we ask ourselves: which of president juncker's scenarios do you want to achieve with your proposal? this is the question we ask ourselves today when we think not about numbers, but about what is behind those numbers. are we now facing an enlargement of priorities, or are we facing a change of priorities, in fact a change of priorities for the european union? and the moment you look at the numbers that are coming in, it's clear that there's a shift in priorities, that some priorities are being replaced by other priorities. not only that, there's a change of policy. what we are about to see today will probably show that there is not only a reduction in cohesion policy, but also a change in cohesion policy, as commissioner crețu confirmed yesterday. it's just a different policy. we therefore expect the council to have a serious debate on what kind of union we want, what future policies are to be, not just how much money is in the budget, but what future european policy is to be and how we are to carry out some of our tasks. i would like to say in conclusion, commissioner, that you are calling for us to behave rationally. we're maintaining one-three as the basis for conversation. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. we are aware that it is in the european union's interest to establish the most favourable conditions for cooperation with the united kingdom, provided, of course, that the mutual arrears are settled very precisely. and as far as the future is concerned, any solution that is based on good cooperation will be beneficial for all of us. this is true of galileo as well.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: after your speech today, it is clear that the optimism with which you presented the draft financial framework for 2021-27 is now very much gone. firstly, because the net payers reacted very nervously to the increase in charges, i will not mention here the prime ministers of the countries that have spoken out strongly on this issue. in turn, the reductions in spending in the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy have been very poorly received in the newly-admitted countries of the european union. if this information is confirmed, and all indications are that the cohesion policy cuts for the countries of central and eastern europe will be higher than 20%, then obviously the budget thus structured cannot be adopted. i will just remind you that the original idea behind the rich countries' contributions to the cohesion fund was to gain access to the markets of the newly admitted countries. and because of that access, those countries have had incredible benefits, and those benefits continue to this day. the proposed restrictions in cohesion policy therefore have nothing to do with this original idea. finally, i would like to turn to the inequality in agriculture. this inequality must be balanced, otherwise the agriculture of the countries of central and eastern europe will be able to consider that it is discriminated against, and this is incompatible with the treaties.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'd like to comment on the whole proposition based on my own experience, but i have to confine myself to the income issue. it's good that the attempt to reform own resources has been made. the european parliament has consistently encouraged this, knowing that the corporate memory in the commission is not very encouraging given previous experience. they are also pleased with the positive signals coming from vienna. the austrian presidency is the most important thing, and there is a chance that the negotiations will also include revenue issues. the offer is more modest than we expected. the new own funds are to provide 12% of the revenue and that's how much the membership fee will be reduced. of course, the very basket of candidates for these funds is exciting. among them is one that is supposed to provide only 2% of the total revenue, or part of the ets revenue. i would like to signal that perhaps it is not worth opening a serious front for the 2%, because for some countries they may be out of luck when it comes to their own resources. nor are there any future candidates mentioned in previous versions of your documents, namely the ftt and the taxation of the digital economy. i am surprised that the five countries and the reduction in the membership fee have been announced so early, because these are usually left for the last, hot night of negotiations. good luck with that. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. the european parliament's position on this matter is different, namely that the traditional cohesion and agriculture sections cannot be cut in favour of the new challenges of the european union, and we will defend this position in difficult negotiations.
madam president! the cap is not just for farmers. it's also used by consumers, by all of us. the cap makes food cheaper. its quality and availability are assured. they are also used by entrepreneurs, suppliers of means of production and service providers. the cap is rural jobs. agriculture is creating renewable energy. it supplies raw materials for industry. after all, farming is food. food is nourishment, and nourishment is health. agriculture also has an environmental and climatic dimension. so you could say it's an agri-environment-food policy. so the cap funds serve many purposes. on the other hand, we must bear in mind the lack of young farmers and the ageing of the countryside. how could it be possible to propose a reduction of even 15% in the cap budget in such a situation? the cap's share of the total budget is to be reduced from the current 37% to 28% at the end of the period 2021-2027. i have said this many times and i will say it again: agricultural incomes are 50% of the incomes of other occupational groups and are half financed by the eu. international trade agreements are mostly unfavorable to current agriculture. so what's the outlook for farmers? what are we supposed to tell them? we are very surprised that many of them vote for europe and support the populists. what do we say to farmers during the campaign for the european parliament?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we have received a very clear logic from the commission. well, if we're going to have less money because the uk is leaving, then first of all, we shouldn't start any new spending, especially since it's unnecessary spending. we want a stronger, more secure europe, we want a stronger defence. instead of fiction about a common defence policy, please remind the three quarters of our countries that are nato allies to implement a 2% national security policy commitment as part of our atlantic solidarity. your country doesn't meet that two percent. we want the borders of europe to be secure. let us at least give political support to hungary, croatia, bulgaria and slovenia, which are defending europe's borders. meanwhile, these countries are under attack. what do you want to do? increase employment at the agency. the question is, will it be to protect our borders or to make sure they're not protected?
in writing. following the commission's proposals on the mff for 2021-2027 and the eu's own resources system, we are on the verge of key negotiations on the union's immediate future. the next financial framework must reflect a clear and positive vision for the future of the union and respond to the needs, concerns and expectations of european citizens. moreover, the mff decision will undoubtedly have to provide the union with the financial means necessary to meet its key challenges and to implement its political priorities over the next seven years. in this context, i consider it fundamental to uphold the ep's firm position on the level of funding needed for key eu policies to enable them to achieve their objectives. in particular, i would stress the call to maintain the funding of cohesion policy in the eu-27 at at least the level of the 2014-2020 budget in real terms, while respecting the overall structure of these policies, and to triple the current budget of erasmus+, to double the specific financial allocations for smes and to combat youth unemployment. i strongly emphasise that the next mff must be based on the well-established policies of the union, which should aim to promote peace, democracy and security, as well as long-term and sustainable economic growth, research and innovation, and to ensure high quality employment and strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion.
madam president! there is a dispute between governments about which of them has the right to impose contractual terms on workers and employers. i'll let this dispute settle. no government has that right. the agreements between employees and employers are between them and no government, no gentleman in a suit, just because they're sitting in the blue seats in this room, has the right to interfere in agreements between strangers. you wipe your mouth with the good of the workers, but you have no right to do so because the workers on secondment did not ask you to do so. on the contrary, they want to compete on price. because what are polish workers in france supposed to compete with? nobody's going to hire them because they speak better french, just because they're cheaper. why would anyone bring a worker from one country to another to work more or at the same price? that's why i'm taking away your right to speak on behalf of these employees.
madam president! there is no worse solution to the deterioration of europe's internal market than a revision of the directive on the posting of workers. throughout europe, there is a particular shortage of workers today. that is why workers are posted to countries where the local market is lacking in skilled workers or where the local market is not interested in the type of work, and we are destroying the internal market by reducing the posting to 12 months and by burdening companies with all kinds of collective agreements. the purpose of the review was to eliminate unfair companies that engaged in so-called social dumping. the document doesn't have those solutions. the audit is a mess, a lot of red tape, which we charge all the companies that delegate, whether from germany, france, poland, the netherlands, belgium or bulgaria. it is these countries that will be the ones to see small and medium-sized businesses falling under the bureaucracy that is being imposed on them. and honest companies, because we haven't found a solution for letterbox companies, they'll continue to thrive. only the clear law of the market will be respected. do europeans really have to pay for the ideas of one politician? do we have to be prisoners of populism?
madam president! taken as a whole, the revision of the posting of workers directive seems to confirm the view that the european union is a sort of charles darwin club. in this pseudo-equality, the bigger and stronger wins. and although the original provisions of the directive have been somewhat relaxed, the final result still reads to me as a blow to the entrepreneurship of the countries of central and eastern europe, and especially to poland, which has the largest transport fleet in europe and a fairly large group of posted workers. this is certainly not in the interests of european integration and the competitiveness of the european economy. as a consequence, it may lead to the collapse of micro and small enterprises in this sector and to a decrease in the competitiveness of the european union economy as a whole. our european project is based on the principles of the common market, the freedom to provide services, the freedom of movement of workers, and not on the principles of protectionism by the stronger countries. the stronger ones in the european union have therefore rejected the 24 months of long-term secondment, fighting social dumping, which has not even been defined. and so on and so forth.
madam president! i am convinced that the amendment of the directive will have a negative impact on the principles underlying the functioning of the internal market, in particular on the freedom to provide services. the revised text of the directive fails to strike the right balance between the protection of workers' rights and the freedom to provide services. instead of being a tool to protect workers, it will in fact become a tool to protect the economies of the richer member states from more competitive firms, mainly from central and eastern europe, but also from portugal, spain. it is particularly surprising that the member states which are most likely to use european rhetoric on a daily basis are the ones who are most likely to support such changes. we have heard a lot about social dumping here too, but we all see the division that this directive is creating, that it is dividing europe, dividing central and eastern europe from the west, and that it is protecting interests, not protecting workers.
in writing. the report on the directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services proposes an amendment to the existing 1996 directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services in order to align the wages of these workers more favourably with those of the countries employing them. polish companies currently outsource around 500,000 of their employees, mainly in the construction industry, to various tasks, and their current salaries are far from those offered to local employers. the point is that they are not treated worse than local people and are not exploited by both the sending and the receiving party as a result of being employed at the lowest hourly rates. poland has already introduced the same principle for ukrainian workers, i.e. the principle of equality of rights and obligations with polish workers. the new regulations on posted workers will undoubtedly bring some of this half-million-strong population back to the country where they should quickly find decent work at a salary similar to that of the country of posting. the country is suffering from a severe shortage of skilled workers in the internal labour market, and this should lead to a gradual equalization of wages for the same work. i support new eu regulations that are mainly beneficial for employers.
mr. chairman, please! as the last two dossiers were presented to us in a very complicated way, most members were confused when we voted on the final version of the directive on posting of workers. you didn't say what we were voting on, you just said we were voting. please state clearly what we are voting on and ask that we repeat the vote . . . (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! let's imagine that we, sitting in this room, send our employee, our office assistant, to another country. another country in europe, another language, another labour law, another whole legal system. in addition, in this other country, with a different legal system and language, we are dealing with collective agreements: national, regional and company. and now let's imagine that such a collective labour agreement in the place where we send our employee has 700 pages in a foreign language that refer not only to a foreign labour law, but also to a foreign whole legal system. i'm sure most of us in this room would be reluctant to send our assistant overseas for a short period of time. all or most of the small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union will do the same. this directive is killing the european union's economy and competition on our continent.
mr. chairman, please! those who produce something inexpensively and inefficiently and are losing out to the competition often try to force the game and call on governments for help. and we have many examples of taxi drivers going after uber, and expensive airlines going after ryanair, and how machines were once destroyed so they wouldn't compete with people. so this is nothing more than simply lobbying expensive western workers against cheap eastern workers. but on the other hand, it may be good that you, with the prospect of the inevitable break-up of the european union, choose the shortcut, because such moves make the polexit or the exit of other eastern european countries from the european union seem closer and closer. and you take muslim immigrants to your countries and we'll see how nice it is for you to live in an islamic caliphate in a few years.
madam president! after the decision of the us president to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel and the leaders of the organization of islamic cooperation to recognize jerusalem as the capital of palestine, riots broke out, people were killed. no doubt it was a political decision. but jerusalem is a holy city for three religions: judaism, christianity and islam. so we have to take into account the positions of their top officials. immediately after the us declaration, pope francis called for the preservation and respect of jerusalem's special status. the catholic church has held its position on this issue for decades. this was the appeal of popes paul vi and john paul ii, who repeatedly stressed the need to maintain the city's international and nonreligious status. all the popes have called for peace in the middle east. the european union, which has been awarded the nobel peace prize, should continue its commitment to aid and dialogue in order to find a solution acceptable to the parties to the conflict.
madam president! the death of dozens of palestinians and the wounding of thousands is undeniably a tragic event. we should express our sorrow and our sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. but we should also think carefully about the reasons and not make conclusions based on media reports or facts such as the december decision in washington. it is necessary to take account of the internal factors - and i agree with my colleague from the ecr - which play a crucial role in this conflict. i am referring primarily to the political struggle between hamas and the palestinian authority, which has been gaining strength over the past year. ramallah's decision to stop paying for electricity in the gaza strip, the 30% cut in the salaries of gaza officials, the deliberate withholding of salaries in april, the accusation that hamas tried to assassinate the prime minister of the autonomy, rami hamd allah without these facts, it is impossible to understand the whole intention of the organizers of the great march of return and its violent course.
mr. chairman, please! we have heard many times in recent years, here in this chamber, but also in the member states, criticisms of trade, services and investment agreements, such as the ttip with the united states or the ceta trade agreement with canada, which has just been passed. these same people, often, or the same circles, are now raising their voices against president donald trump and the united states' position on tariffs that are binding on trade between, among others, the european union and the united states. well, this is a great example of what nationalism, chauvinism, closing your nations and states to others, restricting trade, does to you. so if trade is to be open to the european union, that's good, if it's to be closed to us, that's bad. i mean, we're in a good school for how the world should be. i would like to commend the european commission for the position it is taking, for the position that it is taking in favour of opening up to other countries, to other economic areas of the world, and with this policy we can also bring about a settlement of the conflict with the united states, and not the other way around.
mr. chairman, please! the entry of the united states into a protectionist path towards the steel and aluminium industries is undoubtedly disturbing and sad news. history shows that such policies never have happy endings, and that europe and the united states have always benefited more from working together. the united states decision, however, forces the union to react. i believe it has to be three-step. first, we must negotiate with the united states a permanent extension of the current eu tariff exemption until the end of june and propose cooperation to solve the world problem of steel overproduction. if this is not achieved, the union should lodge a complaint with the world trade organisation and then also take additional measures to safeguard european industry.
madam president, i wish libya all the best, although taking into account the complexity of its problems, i am not very optimistic. i would like to raise one issue: libya is also a rich country in terms of its sovereign wealth, which was frozen in 2011. the obligation of the international community is to reinvest the interest and dividends in a proper way, enabling us to return them in proper shape when time allows.
in writing. the political and socio-economic situation in libya is very difficult and complex. therefore, in accordance with this recommendation, the european parliament intends to provide guidance to the european external action service, the european commission and the european council on how to proceed with this subject. the european union is assisting libya's political transformation towards a stable and well-functioning state and is providing assistance to restore effective governance and improve socioeconomic conditions. thanks to partners in the above-mentioned area, such as the international organisation for migration (iom) and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), the eu is regularly increasing its humanitarian assistance to also address the migration challenges in libya. in this context, on the sidelines of the european union-african union summit in november 2017, the eu, together with the au and the united nations, established a joint task force to accelerate both the international organisation for migration (iom) assisted voluntary return programme and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) emergency transit mechanism. the eu has allocated eur 182 million from the budget for migration-related projects, eur 162 million under the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) and eur 20 million under bilateral assistance.
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you not think that it is not the political parties that are concerned about uncontrolled immigration, but the policy of the european union authorities to encourage illegal immigration, to downplay the problem, that has led to this most serious crisis in the schengen area? isn't controlling this phenomenon the best way to keep her confident and functioning well? in the meantime, our report again calls for the legalisation of illegal immigration. is this really the way to guarantee the good functioning of our external borders?
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this interesting debate. i can assure you that i have taken note of all your remarks. the first thing i would like to say is that almost all of us are on the same side. we share the will to return to a fully-fledged schengen area, but also a unified one, including all the member states from the moment they are, or will be, technically ready. we should continue turning the crisis of the last three years into opportunities for stronger and more effective cooperation. we should keep on learning from our experiences, fully follow up on our joint evaluations and use the tools at our disposal to the maximum. as i said, i took good note of all your interventions that are feeding the current reflection about the future of our border management, and i am sure that we will soon have more opportunities to follow up on this debate. we have to continue working together on all parts of our comprehensive approach on migration, security and border management, in a spirit of solidarity, joint responsibility and trust. yes, schengen is the greatest achievement of all times, and we have to uphold and defend it. and this is what we share in this room today. together we have to strengthen and preserve this great achievement as the core symbol of our unity. europe can only exist if it is united: united politically, economically, socially and geographically. and schengen is the guarantee and also the symbol of a geographically united europe, ensuring the unity of our nations and of all european citizens. let me now reply in greek to the question raised by mr hadjigeorgiou. όσον αφορά στους εσωτερικούς ελέγχους που αυτή τη στιγμή έξι κράτη μέλη συνεχίζουν, τόνισα και το επαναλαμβάνω ότι πρέπει σύντομα να λήξουν και να προτιμηθούν – και είμαστε σε θέση να προτείνουμε – εναλλακτικές λύσεις και μέτρα αστυνομικής συνεργασίας που θα εξασφαλίζουν ένα υψηλό επίπεδο ασφάλειας. αυτό το έχω επαναλάβει τον τελευταίο καιρό σε όλες τις συναντήσεις που είχα με τους υπουργούς εσωτερικών των έξι αυτών χωρών. θα πρέπει να σας πω ότι σε γενικές γραμμές όλοι συμφωνούν μαζί μας ότι πρέπει να επανέλθουμε σε μία ομαλή λειτουργία της ζώνης του σένγκεν. η επιτροπή είναι πάντα πρόθυμη και έτοιμη να συνεισφέρει με τις προτάσεις της σε αυτήν την κατεύθυνση.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 30 may 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report of ms teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and ms angelika mlinar, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the implementation of directive 2012/29/eu laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime (2016/2328 ((ini)) (a8-0168/2018).
mr. chairman, please! the enlargement of the union and the consequent increase in freedom of movement have created the need to safeguard the rights of victims of crime and to ensure that they are properly supported at the level of the european union. the directive we are discussing today has established important provisions such as the right to be heard, the right to complain and access to support services. it is primarily intended to counter the mistreatment and neglect of victims. the scope of the directive also covers victims of trafficking in human beings, which is the third most lucrative form of crime after arms and drugs trafficking. his victims are used for prostitution, forced labor and begging. poland has implemented this directive and has done a great deal to protect victims of violence. i cannot agree with the content of the report. the european parliament has traditionally added many controversial elements, such as sexual and reproductive rights and the rights of sexual minorities, which have caused the report to go beyond its scope.
mr. chairman, please! this battle against dumping is a futile fight against a seemingly unnecessary problem. if someone wants to sell us something at a loss, and we sell them at a profit, that's just how we get rich and they work for us for free. it's a net gain for us. if you do that for too long, you're not gonna make it. in the long run, the balance of international trade must be zero, because to sell something to someone, you have to buy the same or more from them. otherwise, such international trade would soon cease. so if someone wants to destroy their environment to give us cheap goods, we should be happy because we don't have to destroy our environment. we are the parliament of europe, not the world, and we should be concerned about our environment first and foremost. it's as foolish an idea as denying yourself a free lunch to protect your workplace in the kitchen.
mr president, the european union was slightly ahead of global developments with respect to trade tensions between liberals and protectionists. the debate we had dealt with the very same tensions – how to accommodate the two competing forces and interests – but i think we struck the right balance. in exchange for a number of importer—friendly provisions, we also strengthened protection against dumped imports. the key provision in this package is mainly the removal of the lesser duty rule in the event of structural raw material distortions. the european union needs to do more to combat dual pricing, regulated prices and subsidisation on third markets. removing the lesser duty rule in such a situation is the first step in a more muscular policy. there are a number of on-going proceedings that involve such distortions, and i do hope that the european commission will seek to use these rules for making sure that our policies are properly implemented.
mr president, the world – including european trade policy – is changing, and we need to adapt. brexit, china’s market economy status (mes) or even, as we discussed a couple of hours ago, the us trade tariffs in the steel and aluminium sector are examples of challenges to be addressed. public debate about international trade has also become more vivid, and we need to supply clear and precise answers in order to demonstrate that eu commercial policy brings benefits to companies and citizens. this report on the common commercial policy is therefore badly needed. challenges are also opportunities for the eu worldwide, and we should be able to take advantage of these new opportunities. madam rapporteur, you did a very good job. it wasn’t an easy job, but you managed to accommodate different positions and find compromises on such sensitive issues as trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapters, global value chains and corporate social responsibility. congratulations.
mr. chairman, please! following the uk's announced withdrawal from the european union, we are holding a series of debates on the future of europe in the european parliament in strasbourg with the presidents and prime ministers of the member states. we hear a lot of ideas for how to improve our organization -- mostly technical ideas. but we must look at the foundation, the foundation of the european union. this is undoubtedly the christianity to which the founding fathers referred robert schuman, alcide de gasperi, konrad adenauer. today, we only hear of the communist altiero spinelli, who called for the abolition of nation states. and the second thing is democracy. we were talking about internet companies. if you type in the word "democracy deficit" in a search engine, the european union pops up. even george soros, a friend of the commissioners, mr juncker and mr timmermans, publicly stated that the european union was a flawed structure after the uk referendum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, please! the issue of posting is one of the most important issues of this parliament, of this term. many politicians have built their campaigns on this dossier. we cannot ignore our votes, which show that we voted wrongly by mistake, by misconduct. our amendments, which have been adopted by 37 member states until today, yesterday, to be precise, and which are still in force, are a serious argument for the need to reconsider this vote. i very much ask the president to do so.
mr. chairman, please! the unprecedented thing that has happened here today is that we voted in this resolution for the sentence which says: whereas the consumption of saturated fats and red meat in the union far exceeds the recommended levels of nutritional requirements...etc. at the last session in brussels you voted the opposite. namely, it is considered that the belief that lamb is difficult to prepare should be counteracted and the current trend towards avoiding red meat reversed. you're treating data randomly, you're speaking on topics you don't know anything about, you don't know what you're voting on, and you're making a mess of eu law. what is this, anyway? you're voting two conflicting bills within two weeks of each other.
mr. chairman, please! the report deals with very technical matters in the field of law and legislation, but it is worth recalling that bad law is not respected, that law that is over-regulated, difficult and expensive to implement is not respected by citizens, is avoided. but the law applied badly, the law applied badly by the state and its institutions in favor of the state and against the citizens, discourages them from the institutions of the state and the european union. that is why we should make sure that we create good, simple, transparent and understandable laws for citizens, laws that are made with citizens and for citizens. i would also like to say that i am directing my remarks primarily to legislation and legislation in the member states, because bad legislation, which is very often created in the member states, then gives a bad image of the european union as such. we should be here as politicians, as parliamentarians of the european union and of the member states, working together for a good, better law.
mr. chairman, please! it was hard not to support this compromise. this is clearly not the best solution, but it has been worked out with great difficulty, given the unfavourable circumstances of brexit and other issues. but what do i want to point out? first of all, three doubts. the first concerns a reduction of the european social fund by about six per cent. in my opinion, in the present situation, this is an unacceptable thing. secondly, despite numerous announcements, funding for research and innovation programmes has not been increased sufficiently, and has actually been reduced. i am pleased that the funds for erasmus+, the scholarship programme, which is very important from the point of view of the young generation, have been increased. but i remind you that it was announced that this increase would be almost threefold. it's been reduced to increase , which i also point out.
mr. chairman, please! one of the major issues in the draft budget proposed by the commission is the planned reduction in expenditure on the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. this is not a good solution, because these are key eu strategies and such radical cuts should be opposed. ladies and gentlemen! as far as the reduction of funds for agriculture is concerned, farmers are clearly dependent on payments and the budget for agriculture should not be reduced. we should do everything we can to support the european union's agriculture. the common european policy should be really common, which is why i am against cuts in agriculture and also for the equalization of subsidies for polish farmers.
mr. chairman, please! we talk about the budget for the coming years and we create it in completely different conditions than in the past years - we have to take this into account. we often hear the brexit debate in our speeches, but let's not forget that we are in the middle of the worst financial crisis in a century, and we are in the middle of probably the worst migration crisis. we must take all these factors into account, learn from them and budget so that it also serves to prevent similar crises in the future. there is a fourth factor that we should take into account. namely, throughout europe, to a greater or lesser extent in different countries, of course, nationalism is spreading, particularism, anti-union movements are growing in strength, parties are being formed that have their strength in certain countries, populist parties, and even take power, as recently in italy. we must also take these issues into account in order to ensure that the budget is adequately funded to combat these evils.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner günther oettinger has once again returned to the fatal idea of making political assessments under the pretext of the commission's rule of law checks during the preparation of the draft multiannual budget. on what grounds? how can we talk about the rule of law and usurp for an administrative and coordinating body the powers that belong to the governments of the european union, which created our union? the treaties clearly state the powers of the european council and the commission should bear this in mind. it should also bear in mind the vested rights that this budget must implement. polish agriculture in half of the area of europe occupied by the soviet union was a phenomenon due to the preservation of individual property and its family structure. for decades it has received no help, today it has a right to it.
mr. chairman, please! the internal situation in libya is very complicated. moreover, the crisis that has been going on for several years is having a significant impact on other african countries as well. it also affects the european union. this is clearly seen in the case of illegal immigrants. many people are transiting or fleeing libya, trying to reach europe via the mediterranean. it is good that the report calls for long-term and realistic solutions to the root causes of migration. the european union should make it a priority to provide effective assistance to local communities, both in libya and in other north african countries, in order to improve the living standards of the people on the ground. this is the direction that the leader of law and justice, mr jarosław kaczyński, was already pointing out more than two years ago. the european union's willingness to assist the libyan authorities in ensuring the return of internally displaced persons and to support the implementation of effective measures to combat human trafficking and migrant smuggling should also be welcomed. that's why i decided to support this report.
illegal immigration is the main, and indeed the only, source of the crisis of the schengen system the open borders system . this report, instead of speaking about it explicitly, firstly postulates an old idea, repeated by the european commission, i.e. the legalization of illegal immigration, and moreover, unfortunately, in this report there are such curious phrases as taking the term 'illegal immigration' in the back of your mind or talking about 'so-called illegal immigration'. how can you question its illegality and talk about the rule of law all the time? the protection of borders is a duty of all states, a triple duty: to their own citizens, to the law that requires it, but also - as regards the union's external borders - to our mutually agreed arrangements. and it is high time that the european union authorities started to respect the law of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the implementation of the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime makes reasoned recommendations, but the document focuses on victims rather than crime prevention. in most member states, the concept of family is well known and described in the basic laws, so it is difficult to know what extensions of the concept are involved. although the document is based on the principle of non-discrimination, it emphasizes the need to provide special assistance to victims of sexual crimes and lgbt people, which simply means favouring them. sexual violence and hate crimes are found in every european criminal code, and the document pays particular attention to this, especially since crimes against human life are omitted. as people who are ethical, especially catholics, we cannot support legislation which treats the killing of the unborn as a human right, under the guise of not very dignified reproductive and sexual rights. that is why i voted against this report.
mr. chairman, please! poland has implemented the directive on the protection and support of victims of crime in the european union. i believe that this is one of our shared priorities. as for today's resolution, i abstained in the final vote because the report contains a lot of controversial content, relating to reproductive rights, sexual minorities and the ratification of the istanbul convention. ladies and gentlemen! do all eu documents have to be tainted with leftist ideology? reproductive health has no connection with the subject of this report, and the ideological nature of some of the provisions of the istanbul convention makes it impossible to treat it as a coherent european legal framework. i think that treating abortion as a basic human right is unfair and unworthy.
mr president, i am very happy to see this broad agreement in this house. this is very unusual but very reassuring. indeed, in many cases these golden visa schemes are abused and simply allow eu passports to be bought by wealthy third-country nationals, who use this possibility to escape sanctions, avoid taxes or launder money. many examples connected to illicit financing, especially coming from russia, certainly support this claim. moreover, the golden visa schemes clearly discriminate against ordinary third-country nationals who live and work in the eu and yet have to wait for many years until they are eligible for naturalisation. the standard granting of citizenship permits is a competence of member states. i nevertheless see an urgent need for more coordination and cooperation between member states in this field. firstly, golden visas should be restricted to granting residence status to foreign investors, but they should not automatically offer citizenship. eu passports should only be issued to applicants who have spent sufficient time in a member state and can demonstrate that they are integrated in its society. we should not treat the eu like a supermarket, where passports can simply be purchased. secondly, the national procedures for granting residence permits and citizenship should include standardised background checks on all applicants, involving the exchange between member states of all available information on the applicant. i encourage the commission to take the initiative in order to help member states to regulate this area more efficiently.
we return to the current debate (rule 153a) on the eu's values and the spread of corruption and crime in relation to 'golden visas' (2018/2676 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their views. i fully understand their position and frustration and, again, thank you for your comments, but let me remind you that what the commission can and cannot do on this topic is defined in the eu treaty. before i conclude, however, let me share with you some comments, and replies to your comments. first, on the corruption and security risks linked to citizenship-for-sale schemes, as i said, the commission is currently working on a report on investor schemes, which includes all member states. let me repeat: all member states will be included. it will describe the commission’s action in this area. let me be even more precise: the report will be based on a fact—finding study, detailed work for which is now underway. the study will look at both investor citizenship and investments residence, so—called ‘golden visa’ schemes. the contractor undertaking the study has been asked to look at the legislative framework, the security and due-diligence checks, the numbers of people involved and the schemes’ implementation in practice. on the topic of guidance for member states, the commission will issue some guidance to member states on the question of citizenship for sale, together with the 2018 report on investor schemes. on the topic of legislative initiatives by the commission, let me re—stress the following. first, the concept of residence has already been harmonised at eu level, following a sector-based approach, and covers the following categories: high—skilled workers, seasonal workers, students and researchers, family members through family reunification, intra—corporate transfers and long—term residence. second, as competence on the matter is shared between the eu and the member states, member states currently remain free to regulate admission conditions and rights for categories of persons not covered under eu law, including self—employed persons, entrepreneurs and investors. so, what i am promising to you, honourable members, is that i will share all of your concerns and positions with my colleagues responsible for this sensitive area. thank you very much for all of your comments.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. i have listened to this debate with great interest. on ms in ’t veld’s call for more transparency and monitoring, i would like to say that there is no eu monitoring, strictu sensu, since the monitoring of agencies which offer assistance in granting eu citizenship or residence permits relates clearly to a national competence. however, in january 2009, the so-called eudo citizenship, an observatory within the european union observatory on democracy, was launched. this observatory analyses citizenship laws and policies in europe. it is hosted by the robert schuman centre of the european university institute in florence and funded by the european fund for the integration of non-eu immigrants. secondly, we expect a report from the commission, which will describe current national laws and practices, giving us a better overview and understanding of this issue, as well as providing some guidance for member states. concerning the view expressed by mr deprez, i would like to reassure you: ‘les états membres vous écoutent, la présidence du conseil vous écoute.’ in the field of legal migration, only the conditions of entry and residence of certain categories of third-country nationals have been regulated at eu level. it is for the commission to see whether there is a need to propose eu-level legislation also for other categories of third-country nationals. in conclusion, as i have already emphasised, the protection of eu citizenship is about our joint responsibility, shared among all member states and the european institutions. i am convinced that this issue of granting eu citizenship or residence permits should continue to be followed, in order to raise awareness and possibly to curb practices that could be problematic. i’m sure that we all share this view.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by elisabetta gardini on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1313/2013/eu on a union civil protection mechanism (com2017/0772/2) c80409/2017 2017/0309 (cod)) a-0180/2018.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as you can see, we all agree that the eu civil protection mechanism is an effective instrument, and it was important that it was useful in 2001, when it was already operational in the european union, and also during the ebola epidemic, the typhoon in the philippines and the earthquake in nepal. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work on this report. and since - as enrique has just said - it partly complements the eu's humanitarian aid, any action by the mechanism should be in line with the sendai agreement on disaster risk reduction 2015-2030 adopted by the union. i believe that an important element of the review of this mechanism is the need to strengthen training and the exchange of good practices with partner countries in order to avoid, among other things, stories like the fires in portugal; it is also important to define the scope of its operation in the event of complex, man-made disasters or conflicts, especially in the context of the use of different aid and financial instruments depending on the situation in the country concerned.
mr. chairman, please! i survived the flood, not as a resident, but as the president of wroclaw, a city of over 600,000 people, and i remember that there was no help during the flood. and after it was over, in a very short time, we had help from berlin, vienna, budapest, prague. it was extremely important. i have post-disaster experience from attending many european conferences on fires, earthquakes, and floods. and i know that big cities are able to secure themselves quite well on their own. large, medium and especially small towns not at all. i would like to congratulate you on this report, because i believe that solidarity in the face of disasters is the most important barometer of our european sensitivity, and that it is important to have the equipment and the conditions to provide aid and to react quickly to dramatic situations, because human lives, the environment and the national heritage are at stake.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you said two very important things that intrigued me. first, that the effect of turning the meters is a risk to safety, life, health. i am interested to know whether this is in any way an estimate and whether it fits in with the amount that the commissioner and others have mentioned. and the second element that kind of freaked me out a little bit was that forcing manufacturers to make meters that can't be reworked, that can't be twisted, could actually cost a lot more than the potential reductions that we're asking for today. can you estimate that, too?
mr. chairman, please! the title of the report is very elegant. let me remind you that these are recommendations for manipulation, and the most important word is the word about manipulation. and the reality is far worse and more brutal than that, and you have to call it what it is. well, we have a very large-scale fraud in the sale of used cars in europe. the fraud is primarily targeting the buyers, because they are the ones who end up paying the higher prices, the ones who end up paying the costs of poor condition in terms of safety. in poland, it is estimated that up to 80 percent of imported used cars have a reduced mileage on the meter. i strongly support the fight against these crimes, because this is a reprehensible phenomenon and it should be called what it is.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. tampering with the meter of a car is a practice that is not only illegal, but should be severely punished. poland is among a group of countries where such manipulation is prohibited and where measures are taken to reduce the scale of fraud. the website provides a free report on a vehicle registered in poland, including information on the condition of the vehicle's meter, which was recorded during the last roadworthiness test. i think that this should be the standard across the union. only in this way will we be able to protect car buyers and users from the effects of fraud and manipulation of vehicle history. mr. speaker, we fully support your report.
mr. chairman, please! perhaps i will play the devil's advocate here, someone who would like to defend the commission and the commissioner, because i hear that the commission and the commission are being accused of this unilateral approach. the procedure we're talking about is absolutely criminal. it's just a crime. i was a victim of a crime like that myself. i practically lost the car i had bought, as it was no longer fit for use. but i want to say that this is one of the many crimes that are committed against consumers who buy cars. what about the issue of emergency repairs? after all, practically speaking, most of these cars in second-hand are after an accident, but they're all sold as accident-free. we're also going to build a computer database of whether or not these cars have ever been involved in an accident. i would say that it is certainly right to expect the commission, but also the governments of the member states, to find an effective way of prosecuting criminals. instead, it proposes ways to target honest vehicle owners, because they will be the ones being monitored, investigated, for example, in terms of their mobility. let's find a way that makes sense.
in writing. manipulation of motor vehicle odometers is one of the most serious crimes, increasing the risk to road safety and exposing citizens in poorer, low-income regions to high additional costs. it is not only a massive fraud that is costing the poorest families, but also a crime that is destroying confidence in the used car market, which is today the lowest of all the commodity markets in the european union. unfortunately, vehicle mileage fraud remains a very widespread phenomenon, disrupting the proper functioning of the internal market and creating a burden for consumers, insurers and car dealers in the secondary market. it is estimated that 80% of cars imported, for example, to poland have reduced mileage. illegal mileage reductions increase the value of a car by an average of €3,000. we cannot continue to tolerate impunity and risk civilian casualties. my country, poland, is now among a group of countries where such manipulation is prohibited and where measures are being taken to further reduce the scale of fraud. we plan to make total vehicle mileage manipulation a felony punishable by three months to five years in prison. i wish such high standards were common to all eu countries. creating legal, technical and operational barriers that make it impossible to roll back the meters should be our priority today.
in writing. the falsification of vehicle speed records is now a common phenomenon, which has a significant negative impact on the functioning of the second-hand car market in europe. according to current statistics, this practice, in the case of poland alone, affects about 80% of cars imported into our country, thus affecting road safety and making decisions of people buying cars on the secondary market based on false information provided by dishonest sellers who deliberately underestimate the meter indication in order to obtain a higher, more favorable price for themselves. the financial losses alone amount to some eur 9,5 billion. so we cannot allow a situation where consumers are openly deceived and lose their hard-earned money when they buy a car. it's important that we consider security considerations in addition to the financial account. suppose a person buys a car that is a few years old and has lost up to 100,000 miles [100,000 km] in mileage, but he does not realize that the vehicle may be in poor condition and, more important, may pose a threat to road safety. i am glad that the european parliament has sent a clear signal that there is no place in the eu for this type of illegal practice and that we have taken joint steps to combat this illegal practice.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the family based on monogamous marriage with parenting as its foundation is the foundation of society, its physical, moral and cultural continuity. the state should not put this social institution alongside unions that are solely for individual satisfaction. such relationships are by their very nature private. the question of the preservation of the common good and the future of our peoples is whether we are faithful to this truth. i expect the commission to make a clear statement that the commission will not engage the european union's policy against countries that respect these principles, that it will respect the decisions expressed directly by the people of croatia or slovakia decisions that are, moreover, consistent with the legislation that operates in many of our countries. the european union has assured our peoples that it is not engaged in questioning the ethics of family life and we expect the authorities of the european union to be faithful to this commitment.
in writing. unfortunately, the question put to the european commission, without calling into question its validity, can have only one answer. the brussels iia regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility and on the abduction of a child is a regulation directly applicable in all member states. this means that a judgment given in one country is applicable in all countries of the union. since not all eu countries have a registered partnership institution in their legal systems, it is not possible at the moment, from a legal as well as a political point of view, to extend the application of this regulation to partnerships. we already have instruments of eu law which deal with the division of property between couples who have entered into a partnership, but this is a specific form of enhanced cooperation to which only some member states have acceded. if the commission had accepted the proposals in question, i believe that the member states would never have reached agreement. in family law, unanimity is required. we are already seeing that with what would seem to be important and widely supported changes, the council is very slow to develop its position. i am not in favour of encouraging the use of the enhanced cooperation instrument, but perhaps in such cases the commission should reconsider such a step so as not to block cooperation in the field of family law between member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of europe's greatest achievements since the second world war has been to create a single market within the union based on the free movement of workers, goods, services, capital and entrepreneurship. this has created one of the largest markets in the world, where we are building our collective competitive advantage. member states differ in their level of socioeconomic development, which translates into levels of pay and the legal environment. in this situation, we will not avoid relocations within the union. of course, relocations also have negative consequences, mainly for workers and their families. this is the first problem we should tackle: it is important that the decision to delegate is announced early enough and that workers have a chance of finding a new job. in the european union, we have funds that do this: the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. so what can be done to reduce the need for relocation? first of all, we should level the playing field in the european union, followed by wage equality. we can do this by integrating the single market more closely, by increasing the exchange of goods and services and by making sensible investments in european funds. member states should also provide entrepreneurs with the right conditions for their business to operate, a fair and sustainable social policy, a friendly legal environment, predictable and easy procedures, access to finance and development opportunities. and let's not forget that our main competitors are china, russia, or the united states. we must do everything possible to eliminate relocation to third countries. only in this way will we be able to maintain our position in the world economy and thus the high standard of living of our citizens.
madam president! the best regulation is no regulation. we, on the other hand, in the european union and in the member states, are going in the opposite direction. almost every day, new laws, new procedures, new rules, new responsibilities are created. we're not creating a business-friendly environment by doing that. the result is that europe as a continent, the european union as an organisation, is losing its competitiveness in the world. not just to america, but to asia as well. another effect is the very thing we're talking about, which is delocalization. and not just within the european union, but also outside the european union. it must be fought, but with the right means. first of all, deregulation, first of all, reducing the burden - both financial and bureaucratic - on entrepreneurs. if we create a favourable environment for investment and then for doing business, then no one will move to a neighbouring country in the european union or outside the european union. and this is the key that we have to use to achieve the right goal - not only for the entrepreneurs, but also for the citizens, also for the employees of these companies. all or almost all the votes cast here today were votes for solutions that are contrary to what is needed and necessary.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you: given the situation, that we are to standardize everything in the european union, does this mean that you want to standardize the conditions for doing business at very high costs, with very high bureaucracy, with a very high level of obligations, or vice versa - on the basis of deregulation, reducing bureaucracy, reducing taxation, reducing obligations, better lawmaking and a business-friendly environment? i'd be interested to hear your answer to your own thesis.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank both rapporteurs for this report on the implementation of the gender action programme by external policy. in our daily work in parliament we often talk about the unresolved problems of women in the european union, the pay gap and the pension gap, the rate of advancement, violence against women. knowing the problems of eu citizens that persist despite decades of equality legislation and despite the pro-equality statements of the vast majority of european politicians, we see and understand all the more clearly the tragedy of girls and women in developing countries where equality agendas are neglected or do not exist at all and women are treated as second-class citizens. not only are their rights, but often their lives, directly at stake. the european union, as the richest and most egalitarian political organisation, has a duty to use all the tools at its disposal to initiate and support equality policies also in third countries and it does so through the programmes being evaluated today. in my view, the precondition for their success is the full integration of the objectives of equality into foreign policy by all its actors, that is, politicians, diplomats, officials, their colleagues, advisers and consultants. the key to effective implementation of the equality objectives is the political will and the effective involvement of all actors in the process at all levels. otherwise, the change is just a matter of appearance and it's just a matter of paper.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. more than one year has passed since the second eu gender equality plan was implemented, which does not allow a reliable analysis of the impact of its functioning. because it is too early to judge, the report is a highly ideological document, which deals with reproductive rights, the istanbul convention and sexual minorities in almost every single point. my predecessor spoke of the introduction of reproductive rights as a condition of equality. what are we talking about? about abortion being available at any time? do you really believe that the basic condition for equality is the introduction of access to abortion? not in that direction and not through the lens of gender ideology. together as a union we should promote gender equality and the empowerment of women. women really need real support, they need to be heard and to be able to act in such a way that we can support them through education, change their destiny, but certainly not through a systemic change in attitudes towards gender.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i too congratulate the rapporteurs dubravce šuicy and linda mcavan on this report. as we can see from this discussion, the subject is not that easy. as the report underlines, ensuring gender equality is particularly important in the context of the union's external relations. the union institutions, agencies and delegations should promote the empowerment of women in developing countries through appropriate programmes and social actions. at the same time, they must maintain an organisational culture that guarantees equal opportunities for women and men, thus setting an example to be followed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the gender mainstreaming strategy and its implementation in the context of the gender mainstreaming strategy. this solution allows the union's efforts to be consistent with the 2030 agenda, also in line with the recommendations of the new european consensus on development. the original draft report also assumes that progress on the second action plan has been assessed in a factual manner and, despite some changes in the text that distract attention from the merits of the document, we will certainly follow closely the progress on the second action plan. the promotion of gender equality is key to ensuring that sustainable development is inclusive and beneficial for all.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question. what do you think these women and girls working in factories in bangladesh will do when you ban the import of the goods they produce? what will happen to these factories and what will they continue to do? think about what you're saying for a second.
madam president! let me try to explain something to you with a simple example. if we set the rule that marriage should be done right after the first date or not at all, will we have more marriages or fewer? i don't think even the average socialist is capable of understanding that we'll have fewer marriages. and now imagine, by analogy, that if young people are hired on more flexible terms than the average person in the population, it's because employers see them as untested, less confident, less experienced, and employers don't want that kind of marriage on the first date. if we inject them with flexible youth employment, will we have less youth employment or more youth employment? we'll have less jobs for young people because they'll be even less competitive with older, more experienced people. for some reason, it is becoming easier to divorce your wife and harder to fire your employee in european countries. i think even now in some countries it's easier to get a divorce than to fire an employee.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the youth strategy we are talking about today is about helping young people find their way in a world that is becoming increasingly complex and unpredictable. one of the tangible proofs of the programme's success, one of the results we are looking for, is employment, economic independence, which is a necessary condition for life and development. so we're keeping a close eye on the indicators that help us assess the situation, like youth unemployment. and i think an even more important indicator is the size of the group of neets, the young people who are not working, not studying, not going to school. there are now 6 million in europe, and although the number is slowly decreasing, it is still far too high. it's crucial to understand this phenomenon. youth programmes cost billions of euros, and we seem to be spending them a little bit carelessly. we have the tools, we have the money, but to use them responsibly, we need to better understand the source of the most serious threat to youth and to the future, which is youth passivity. so i am calling for a deeper debate on neets, for research and sharing of good practices and for real progress in this field.
madam president! after the financial crisis, unemployment figures across the european union were very negative. high unemployment was not only among young people but also among older workers. today, the job market is much better. unemployment in some countries is below five percent and there is even a shortage of labor. unfortunately, this significant improvement is not reflected in the young. it is worrying that nearly one third of young europeans are still at risk of poverty or social exclusion. among them, the unemployment rate in some countries is in the double digits. since 2010, the european union youth strategy has been implemented, building on the work of previous years. but it is clear that we need to improve the efficiency of our actions. the timing is right. the current strategy covers the period up to 2018. in addition, we are in the process of establishing priorities for the multiannual financial framework. i am very pleased that there is a chance to put more emphasis on youth issues in the new eu budget and to increase funding for programmes such as erasmus+. i believe that the new strategy must have realistic and specific objectives. above all, we should focus on education, developing interdisciplinary skills, creating stable jobs for young people, developing entrepreneurship and supporting personal development. the responsibility for youth policy lies with the eu countries, and it is therefore important to support national administrations. there is still a lack of effective exchange of good practice, which i believe is crucial. states should learn from each other's experiences and adapt them to their national realities.
in writing. i stress the importance of modernising education to provide young people with the knowledge, skills and competences needed to live in an increasingly fast-changing economic and social reality. we need to change the paradigm of learning to one that is more student-centered. educational institutions should be centres of critical and creative thinking, focused on personalising learning to increase its quality and effectiveness. in this context, and following the resolution, i stress the need to prioritise and ensure adequate support for education and training in the new mff programming period 2021-2027. young people need to be given the opportunity to grow throughout their lives. it is therefore essential to implement a strategy for lifelong learning and to increase and adapt the educational offer at every level to the needs of the different social groups. the role of non-formal and informal learning is very important in this context. we must also remember young migrants: providing them with a quality education is essential for their integration and for preventing discrimination and social exclusion.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'd like to thank mrs. ries for her excellent cooperation on the report. i am glad that the rapporteur has been open to the arguments concerning, among other things, the special role of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have less capacity to adapt to the new requirements than larger producers. i also thank you for accepting my request that any extension of the scope of the directive be preceded by a thorough impact assessment which should show what possible benefits would result from the inclusion of new product categories. the introduction of ecodesign requirements is a step in the right direction and i believe that parliament should support this initiative as it allows for more efficient use of energy. this translates not only into reducing harmful emissions, but also into increasing energy security. unfortunately, some of the provisions proposed in the draft report are not a good solution. the ethical aspects are of course important, but i do not think that the ecodesign directive is the right place to address these issues. the provisions on the responsibility of producers for the whole life cycle of products are too far-reaching. that's why i've proposed an amendment that brings them closer to the waste package.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to start by underlining the importance of petitions. this is the way that citizens communicate with us directly and inform us about breaches of eu law. for us, the epp group, precarious employment means employment that does not respect european and national law. we want to guarantee flexibility for employers but, at the same time, proper social security for all types of workers. now, i need to point out a few facts about this resolution. first of all, i would like to remind you that the conversion of a fixed-term contract into an indefinite one is not an obligation for member states, but an exclusive national competence. we should not mix eu and national competences regarding labour and social policies. secondly, when we speak about different directives, we have to recall the fact that they are in place especially to prevent abuses. thirdly, when we refer to specific cases, we have to take into account all the observations of the court of justice of the european union. in addition to the current legislation, the commission issued in december a proposal for a directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the eu and adopted proposals for a european labour authority and for better access to social protection. i welcome these proposals aimed at improving the existing legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today we are debating and voting on an unusual resolution which is very personal in nature we are thinking of the imprisoned dual eu-iranian citizens. at first it was just mr. djalali, who we mentioned many times, now there are four names. human rights was, is and will be on the agenda of the delegation to iran, but i know that not all countries and not all families are willing to accept such public interventions. i hope that our resolution will help the people named there. but it's happening at a special time. the european union has a greater responsibility to stop the nuclear arms race in this most 'volcanic' region of the world than it did when the united states was a party to the agreement. how do we sustain the transatlantic alliance in the age of president trump, how do we save the nuclear deal without compromising human rights? this is our real challenge.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, despite our goodwill and engagement, iran continues to be a massive violator of human rights. according to amnesty international, in 2017, the country was responsible for a majority of the world’s executions that year. in late 2017 and january 2018, massive demonstrations happened. then thousands of iranian people – young people mostly – were imprisoned, including dual nationals of both eu member states and other democracies’ nationalities. a number of them have also died in the most suspicious conditions, including well-known iranian-canadian, professor emami. we have to appeal to high representative mogherini to take the floor and put this topic high in the agenda in her dialogue with iran. we have to support the role of the un special rapporteur on iran and iran’s authorities allowing him entry to the country and continuation of the report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. saudi arabia is a muslim country whose law is based on sharia. the practice of any religion other than islam is a crime. women's rights in saudi arabia are virtually non-existent. it's the last country in the world to give women the vote until 2015. in saudi arabia, women who are gang raped are sent to prison. underage girls are used as a form of payment to settle debts. saudi women themselves are not allowed to go to the doctor all the time, and for disobeying they can be imprisoned in the so-called women's room for life. the recent arrests of women's rights activists confirm that the proposed reforms are really just a sham. let us speak out loud as the european parliament for the rights of women in saudi arabia, because they really do not exist.
mr. chairman, please! i will vote against this resolution and i urge everyone to do so, not because i agree with the sentence of noura hussein hammad, because it is probably wrong. but first, the european parliament is supposed to be the law in europe, not the judge of the sudanese courts. this is an unacceptable overstepping of your authority. you have no knowledge or authority to do so. second, calling on sudan to reverse the court's ruling, which is probably illegal, is a violation of the law. the executive cannot interfere with the judicial branch. third, to reduce the chances of serious treatment, you are instructing sudan how to reform their country. why would you do that? fourth: paragraph 2: ... to impose the death penalty on the basis of clear evidence of a necessary defence constitutes arbitrary killing, especially in the case of women. what do you mean, especially for women? what does that mean, "i'm not"? so, "all animals are equal, but pigs are more equal than others"? why do you value human life based on gender? this is outrageous sexism. that's why i'm voting against it.
madam president! i'd like to answer that. the european parliament should above all defend freedom of speech in its own courts, when it is teaching the world how to respect human rights. and punishing someone for the content of their speech in parliament is absolutely unacceptable. therefore, this court's ruling is a triumph for freedom of expression and the rule of law in europe, and i welcome it.
madam president! more than 20 billion for the connecting europe facility would seem satisfactory. unfortunately, that's not the case. we are still far from achieving the very important goal of truly uniting europe in the transport sector. but what's most disturbing is this next prospect. if we look at fixed prices, we have de facto a reduction in the amount of funding, as well as a prolongation of the project in terms of achieving these essential objectives. it must be a concern, and i must pay attention to it.
madam president! i voted against the report on the joint staff working document 'gender equality and women's empowerment: changing the destiny of girls and women in the context of the eu's external relations 2016-2020', despite the fact that it was supposed to aim at gender equality and women's empowerment by ensuring psychophysical integrity, promoting the economy, social rights and strengthening their empowerment. the most visible problems in the document are: education on reproductive and sexual health, which is repeated in various aspects twenty-two times, references to abortion and killing the unborn child twelve times, and violence and sexual abuse twenty times. we also read about the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases and the filling of the funding gap created by the u.s. government's withdrawal of funding for abortion. the question arises whether ensuring the physical and mental integrity of women and girls and the equality that results from their changing destiny should not take into account other vital needs for life and health and development.
madam president! i voted against because it is absurd that the european parliament should claim the right to convert the whole world and infect it with its sexism. the fact that you want to divide the rights of people by gender is one problem, and the fact that you want to infect the whole world with this ideology is just ridiculous. the european union is behaving like jehovah's witnesses. he comes into someone's home and wants to redecorate it to his liking. it's unacceptable and it's actually ridiculous because nobody is going to want to do business with a state that is interfering in the internal affairs of everyone it's trying to do business with.
madam president! the youth strategy is due to be finalised this year, in 2018. it's a long-term strategy, and we can say that it didn't have the desired effect. in the 15-24 age group, we have over 15% of young people who are not working, not studying and are treated by the market as an unnecessary part of the european community. these are strong words, but i believe that the strategy for the next period must be much more consistent, much more effective, much more concrete and have an impact in terms of improving the situation of young people in the labour market - not only in the labour market, but also in the education system. it is also a response to the opponents of erasmus+. we have defended this programme, we have doubled the amount for the next perspective, but you can see how europe's education programmes are needed to improve the mobility of the youngest generation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am really grateful for your initiative to discuss the eu’s response to sexual misconduct in aid organisations. thank you so much for your questions. let me respond also on behalf of high representative / vice—president federica mogherini and my dear colleagues, commissioner hahn and commissioner mimica. i welcome the opportunity to inform you of developments regarding our collective response and, most importantly, to reiterate our firm position on sexual misconduct. through our humanitarian work we save lives and through our development aid work we empower people. our partners play a vital role in our efforts to deliver this much—needed assistance. we expect them – un agencies, international organisations and ngos – to abide by the strictest ethical standards, and we do not accept any misconduct that compromises our vital work on the ground. when we became aware of allegations of sexual misconduct by individual staff members in certain organisations, our message was loud and clear: zero tolerance of any form of misconduct and zero tolerance towards any organisation receiving eu funding. we take allegations of misconduct very seriously. whenever an allegation comes to our attention, we make sure that all procedures are activated. we have in place a number of measures to make sure that eu funding is used properly, according to the highest ethical principles, professional rules and codes of conduct. first, our zero tolerance policy for sexual exploitation and abuse is appended to our contracts with our humanitarian partners. we demand that they have in place effective and coordinated prevention, reporting and response mechanisms. for development funding, contracts include a number of obligations on human rights, labour standards, etc. we are currently working to further reinforce this ethical process, to explicitly address sexual abuse and exploitation. so this is a new effort in order to cover the state of play on the ground, as professional misconduct can lead to suspension and termination of contracts or exclusion from further funding. our partners are obliged to share information with us on allegations or cases of misconduct in a proactive and fully transparent way. we may of course also refer a case to olaf for allegations of misappropriation of eu funds. in response to the allegation of sexual misconduct, as soon as we were informed, we acted in a quick and decisive way. first, we reminded all of our partners of their duty to fully comply with the highest ethical and professional standards. this is more than two hundred organisations. we recalled their contractual, but also moral, obligations towards the european union, and of course towards the people they serve. we asked them to inform us of the concrete measures and procedures they have in place to prevent, detect and address sexual exploitation and abuse. nearly all partners have replied. those who have not are informed that we will review our funding to them and even cease our funding and terminate our partnership if needed. so zero tolerance means we take action where needed. in fact, we have put on hold the signature of further contracts with certain organisations. secondly, we support our partners’ efforts for increased accountability and more effective internal oversight mechanisms. we have strengthened our audits in this regard. the audit programme for humanitarian actions will include the assessment of mechanisms put in place by organisations to prevent, detect and handle cases of sexual abuse and exploitation. thirdly, we rely on the eu presence in the field in our delegations and in our network of humanitarian offices worldwide – closest, of course, to the beneficiaries, where our humanitarian and development partners operate on a daily basis. fourthly, we will continue raising awareness about the possibility to report sexual misconduct directly to us, anonymously and in full confidentiality. finally, we want to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, having everybody on board. we are engaging – since you ask, this is our answer to the question about our collaboration with our member states. we are engaged with our member states and other international donors for a thorough review and harmonisation of policies and practices. we want to raise standards whenever and wherever this is required and appropriate. in this context, the commission joined the safeguarding donor working group, and this issue will be discussed at the g7 ministerial meeting on development. there is no doubt that what has happened in a small number of organisations has tarnished the work of the aid community as a whole. now it is up to the aid community to show the world that these issues will not be tolerated. let me be clear: any such misconduct is an abuse of power towards the most vulnerable, the very ones that aid agencies are supposed to help. our principle is ‘do no harm’, and i intend to keep on pressing this message forward to our partners in the field and at headquarters to all donors and all those in the humanitarian and development community.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in violation of the istanbul convention, which specifically addresses domestic violence, it turns out that sexual violence is used by high-ranking officials of aid organizations, who instead of helping, commit sexual perversions even against underage volunteers. for two decades, the crime agency has warned against the exploitation of children in developing countries, where criminal laws are difficult to enforce, especially in areas affected by war or disaster. beyond the lack of legal response, this is evidence of a vast pathology that results from a lack of moral principles. the problem of sexual abuse is sometimes referred to in literature as the tip of the iceberg. even organizations such as save the children, the british red cross, and even doctors without borders have confirmed reports of crimes. while sexual harassment in humanitarian aid should be tackled through the criminal law of each country, the european union should also stop providing financial support to organisations that have been involved in such crimes by providing other forms of assistance.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of my dear colleagues věra jourová and marianne thyssen, i am here to address this issue: the international day of the family. you know that it is a united nations initiative. as un members, eu member states may observe this day. however, as it is not an eu initiative, as such, it does not receive any specific support from the commission. family policy is primarily a member state competence. the commission supports member states’ efforts on family and child policies through political guidance, including in the context of the european semester. eu financial support is also available. the eu rules can affect family law in cross-border cases affecting, for example, divorce and separation, marriage, civil partnership and property issues like succession and wills, and in this area of civil law the commission has proposed, in the recent period, rules to better protect children in cross-border family proceedings. the european pillar of social rights, adopted on 26 april 2017, is our reference framework to screen the performance of our labour markets and social protection systems with respect to challenges and people’s needs. it puts forward a new generation of rights, in particular access to social protection, thus promoting universality of support for all in need, starting with children and their families. the pillar constitute the eu’s main implementation tool for translating the un’s sustainable development goals into a european context. concretely, the commission put forward an initiative to support work/life balance for parents and carers. this package seeks to modernise work/life balance policies across the eu and to deliver measures that will improve the daily lives of many families. we hope that the council will reach a political agreement on the text shortly, opening the way for constructive negotiations with the european parliament.the role of families is also crucial for the successful integration of migrants. for example, evidence suggests that immigrant children and natives with immigrant parents typically have worse education and labour market outcomes than their peers with native parents. migrant parents’ level of education and employment status has a significant impact on their children’s outcome. investing in integration measures for family migrants, especially for women, is key for the future well-being, prosperity and cohesion of our societies – european societies – and, of course, labour markets. the commission also provides important financial support to various ngos, including eurocarers, eurochild and coface families europe. the action undertaken by these ngos substantially contributes to eu policy-making in the social area and increases awareness-raising on the issues related to the work of family members. i think it is quite important to have this discussion in parliament, and thank you so much for your interpellation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the fact that the un has declared may 15 as international family day is of course important, but it is not the celebrations or the proposed - even beautifully designed - flags that are the problem, but the creation of the right conditions for the development and functioning of the family, which plays a huge role in the education of young generations, being an environment in which children learn basic values, love, respect or selfless help. children who lack good role models have difficulty developing, having difficulty with relationships, having difficulty with moral values. the problems of modern families are not only financial, due to the huge social stratification with unemployment and low wages, but also the rising cost of education, which can be a reason for neglect of parenting responsibilities. except, of course, the anti-family ideologies that lead to all sorts of pathologies. the disappearance of multigenerational families and the isolation of the elderly is also a serious problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the security situation in georgia has frequently been debated in the subcommittee on security and defence. we were usually in agreement that the territories of south ossetia and abkhazia were not voluntarily breaking away from georgia, but that the situation in these regions is due to high pressure from their neighbour, namely the russian federation. georgia did not declare war on those territories or any other, particularly russia. it was a russian invasion of the integral territories of georgia. therefore i am against. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the decision to include emir in refit has revealed that emir will generate disproportionate costs and burdens in certain areas. today, thanks to the work of your rapporteur and the counter-rapporteurs, we have proposals to offer which in concrete terms simplify emir rules and increase their transparency without increasing the risk to financial stability. the law and justice delegation strongly supports the current draft also on the issue that most divides us, namely the compromise on the temporary exemption of pension schemes from the obligation to settle, both for large and small pension schemes. we believe that the present proposal will save small financial counterparties operational costs, estimated to be in the order of eur 1.5 billion. i congratulate the rapporteur, we will accept a good document.
mr. chairman, please! i have no objection to the report, to the work done by my colleague mr lange, but i will point out two elements that concern me. well, we're getting better at dealing with crises that have happened, and we can use certain procedures to prevent a potential crisis that we know from the past. and we're doing very poorly in terms of anticipating crises with other tools, other techniques, other ways. and i have to say that the protection of pension funds in this matter should be our particular concern and we should also keep in mind these individual signals that are already appearing at the moment, and even the transfer by individual decisions of some of the pension resources, for example by investing them in cryptocurrencies. my assessment is that we need to be more imaginative and more proactive in anticipating the crises that may arise.
mr. chairman, please! it is projected that over the next 20 years, air traffic will increase by 50 percent from today's levels. this is why passenger safety is clearly a priority, and it cannot be improved without investment in innovation and new technologies. you can't make long-term progress without taking into account the megatrends in the development of drone technology, cooperation with the space sector, or satellite navigation systems. it is crucial to provide companies with the right conditions to pursue further research and innovation and to improve existing technologies. i therefore welcome the provisions on cooperation with industry in this area. it is important that the report includes provisions to improve the flying of aircraft over areas of armed conflict and that it establishes a legal framework for the safe use of drones. clear regulations will allow companies involved in the production of drones to prepare strategies and development plans for the coming years, and data indicate that in the future, about 100 thousand people will be employed in this sector alone. the proposals we are discussing today are about making better use of available resources, improving certification and, very importantly, increasing the competitiveness of the european aviation sector. it was certainly not easy to reconcile all the expectations, and especially the increase in passenger safety with the protection of personal data. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have worked on this dossier and have contributed to the best possible proposals and solutions.
mr. chairman, please! today's discussion is about legislation that is supposed to keep us safe 15 years from now. so we're talking about the challenges that we're going to face in the future. the biggest challenge we face is the huge increase in air traffic. it's projected that in 15 years, we'll have 15 million flights a year. that's gonna mean a whole lot of new problems. however, there are two other points in the regulation which raise my reservations, because i think the proposals are too general. the first problem is the increasing risk of aircraft collisions with unmanned aircraft. i would stress again that the proposals in this area are perhaps too general. the second problem, which is even less mentioned in the act, is the need to increase resilience to the possibility of cyber attacks. these attacks are coming, and we need to be prepared.
mr. chairman, please! my interest or concern is safety. not only the safety of those who fly, but also those who are on the ground, who may be attacked by flying vehicles. i would remind you that four years ago, when i was in favour of the creation of a central passenger register, i was, with a certain group of course, in the minority. terrorist attacks have changed that. three years ago, i succeeded in persuading the subcommittee on security and defence to include the galileo and copernicus satellite systems in its remit. and i also proposed a change in the weighting criteria for drones. today i can say with great satisfaction that many of the elements that have been the subject of our concern have been taken into account in the report by mr marinescu, but i would like to say that we are five years behind when it comes to european regulations. we must pay attention to the need to develop systems for identifying flying objects, especially small ones, but also develop the capability to neutralize them. this is the fundamental challenge facing the european institutions today.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a job well and solidly done. we know from 2014 that greenhouse gas emissions from heavy-duty road vehicles are 5% of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, up to 20% of the greenhouse gas emissions from all transport (maritime, air and of course road) and 25% or one quarter of the co2 emissions from road transport. the ecr group considers that an appropriate system of certification and monitoring should be established and that adequately high standards should be introduced for heavy-duty road vehicles. it is important that the regulation specifies the various points which oblige manufacturers to monitor and consistently report certain information, the so-called monitoring parameters (i would remind you that in more than 70 areas these data are not harmonised to date). we have to take into account very detailed technical parameters, such as the gearbox, the engine power and, finally, the fuel consumption. such a detailed approach is necessary to work closely with the various international organisations in order to contribute effectively to the monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions from heavy-duty road vehicles and to be able to draw the appropriate conclusions and consequences. the ecr group considers that the proposed regulation is very closely linked to the rules on transparency in particular, but also to access to information. i'll remind you that we believe that information should be public and - i'm not hiding - public as well. we are very keen to maintain a compromise which takes account of our well-known concerns about environmental protection on the one hand and intellectual property and international competitiveness on the other. finally, the ecr considers the proposed form of the regulation to be satisfactory.
mr. chairman, please! ambitious targets, the european union's next step towards a low-carbon economy. as we know, trucks are 5% of the vehicles on the road, but 25% of the pollution and carbon emissions. so we cannot afford to be passive, to be passive, because we are talking about human health and human life, and the enormous costs that are associated with that. looking at the levels of constraints, we need to apply thresholds that are achievable. also, measurements, controls and tests must be reliable, on the one hand to eliminate unfair operators from the market, but on the other hand to eliminate situations such as the diesel gate affair. economic development, we all know, requires an increase in the demand for road transport, and necessarily, that's associated with co2 emissions, so of course, switching to another form of engines, drives is very important, very important, but looking at these constraints, let's not forget that these are also jobs, these are also costs to consumers. i think everyone's done a lot to keep the cost from being passed on to our constituents. it is very important, but it is also important that those who make combustion engines or parts for combustion engines, companies or entities that create thousands of jobs, have time to change technology and protect jobs. in the light of all this, commissioner, i have one question: what will we do with cars coming from outside the european union, from bulgaria, from belarus, ukraine, if they do not meet the standards, will they be allowed to enter europe, otherwise our restrictions will be in place, if we are inundated with cars that do not meet the standards, do not pass any test, we will not achieve any emission limits.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking, of course, about a very important subject, because it is about climate and air protection, and this is very important in this day and age. it affects people's health, but when we talk about people, we also have to think about the people who work in the factories where vehicles are made and in the businesses that use those vehicles. what i mean by that is that there should be a balance between needs and opportunities. it is also important that we increase the level of expected reductions in co2 and all other harmful components to the air and our health in direct proportion to technological progress. because of course it's very easy to think in the blink of an eye that we need to cut emissions by 15%, 30%, 50%, 70% this year and this year -- you can just throw it away -- but the question is, is it technically possible? i would therefore urge the commission to provide, in parallel with such projects, for measures to promote science, research and development in order to develop new technical and technological solutions which will help to achieve these objectives.
mr. chairman, please! today's session in strasbourg is devoted to three themes: firstly, financial instruments, the risks, first of all, of possible crises, drones, the risks of passenger traffic; but also those of those who operate on the ground, and of course co2, that is, heavy equipment. what do these subjects have in common? first of all, the persecution, the extremely difficult reaction of the european parliament, the commission to phenomena that everyone in this room is evaluating in the same way. let me illustrate this with an observation i made just two weeks ago. a big, big truck, refrigerator, with two working compressors, with the engines on, at the nursery unloading, in short, the goods. the kids who go to this kindergarten, they breathe in these fumes, which i pointed out, have been functioning for almost an hour. in my view, it is precisely these observations, these images, that should better and more strongly mobilize us to implement more quickly the legislation we are debating today.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by ms krystyna łybacká on behalf of the committee on culture and education on the modernisation of education in the eu (2017/2224 (ini)) (a8-0173/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank very warmly all those involved in the preparation of this report. i thank the co-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, i thank the employment committee and the committee on women's rights for their valuable opinions, i thank the commissioner for his active cooperation and the commission for the many communications. special thanks go to education experts, teachers, students, students and ngos for their invaluable contributions. when i was working on this report, i made three main assumptions. first, the traditional place of learning, the school, is being replaced by many other sources of learning. modern technologies have liberated education by creating an educational space. and the big challenge for us is to make the school the most interesting place in that space. secondly, we recognise the role of vocational training, and in the report we stress the need to develop a set of key competences and skills, but we also recall that the role of education systems is to educate a multidimensional person who is not only able to fulfil his or her vocational potential, but also to fulfil his or her cultural, social and civic potential. and finally, thirdly, we believe that the necessary condition for all development is the establishment of a civilization pact based on well-funded, high-quality education systems. we therefore call for both increased spending and greater synergy between the structural funds, investment funds and education. the report considers all levels of education. we emphasise the importance of pre-school and early childhood education. we support the establishment of a european framework for early childhood education to ensure the holistic development of the child. we see schools as centers of critical and creative thinking. and this, of course, requires a paradigm shift in education, away from verbal communication and mechanical memorization, towards understanding, discussion, problem solving, but also individualization of the learning process. higher education plays a key role in developing the intellectual potential and competitiveness of the european economy. we welcome the announcement of the creation of a european education area, but we stress that it must be linked to the european higher education area and the european research area in order to strengthen the knowledge triangle and to develop pro-innovation attitudes among graduates. we also support the creation of a european university network, but on the assumption that this should be a bottom-up initiative of the universities themselves. there will be no change in education without teachers, which is why we are emphasising the need to recruit highly motivated, highly educated and mentally prepared teachers. but this requires both a change in the way they are trained and a great concern for their professional and material status. we welcomed the announcement of the european teacher academy with great interest, especially after the clear success of the education summit in january. and let us remember the words of the british educator john dewey: "if we teach as we taught yesterday, we rob our children of tomorrow".
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to congratulate ms krystyna łybackie on her excellent report. i am responsible for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, and in that opinion we stress that a quality education is the right of every european and that the aims of education go far beyond preparing graduates for the labour market, although this objective in the form of the labour market is of course very important. we also see that digitization and automation of the labour market are changing the type of skills needed in the market. the demand for advanced skills and occupations, including digital, mathematical and engineering skills, is increasing and decreasing for simple jobs that do not require qualifications. finally, member states should take this into account in their education policies, which must effectively combat secondary illiteracy and school dropout and improve the education of higher education students. we also stress that the labour market is increasingly demanding soft skills that require practical, open, environmentally-related learning, and that the key to good quality education is teachers, the quality of their education and freedom in choosing curriculum and teaching methods.
mr. chairman, please! you're upset that there's a shortage of trained professionals in many fields. you declare that the union's concern is that education should keep pace with the needs of the labour market and not produce unemployed. what do we propose in this resolution? well, of course, fighting gender stereotypes, lgbt, reproductive and sexual health, which we know what that means in your novelty, but this is the best, item 35, to include in the curriculum, teaching and educational content knowledge about the history of women's emancipation, in particular women's suffrage. i don't know what planet the author is transmitting from, but this is earth. here on earth, we don't ask people in job interviews what they know about women's empowerment and specifically the history of voting rights. this is a question of competence. it's not knowledge, it's your propaganda, your leftist hagiography, which you want to force on people who in many cases will not share your views.
mr. president, education needs to be modernized. i'm starting with that statement, because the report itself says, "on the modernization of education". like it was an open question. no, it's in the report that it's preconceived, so that we can be competitive, we can be rich, we can be more efficient and have a generation that is self-fulfilling there has to be a modernization of the education systems, of education itself. i don't know if that's the most adequate term, the most appropriate word, but there's no doubt that education is responding to the key challenges, not just of europe, not just of european society, but of the world. we must remember that we said recently, in the debate here in strasbourg, that nearly 30% of young people under 25 are either unemployed, uneducated or both. this is a challenge for all of us, how do we arrive at the situation the rapporteur is talking about? and above all, by combining the modernization programs in those groups that are mentioned in the report itself, that is higher education, that is the teachers themselves, that is the ability to also take advantage of the changes in civilization, that is technology, but also scientific research, and also to better respond to changing market needs. i'm very pleased that we've taken up a key topic in terms of challenges. what's most important to me is that these educational models are not squeezed into a very strong, hard matrix -- that's what it should be in the sciences, but in the humanities, in online programs, where you need creativity and creativity, you also need more freedom.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you said that we need to help our children prepare for the future of work, but my question is this: how do you know what skills people will need to enter the workforce in 10 years? does anyone in this room know? and does any of the people who are going to make that decision know that? how do you know that? nobody knows what's gonna be needed in 10 years. and don't tell me that our goal is equality, your goal is equality. my goal is equality. and education has no right to impose the views of one side of the room on the other side of the room.
member of the commission. – mr president, it was very good to hear during the debate that there was broad and strong consensus on the future of education. we share the same ideas and the same objectives. it is a very good starting point for a future collaboration. digital skills, critical thinking, lifelong learning, skills—oriented education, the role of teachers in the future of education, the quality of education and the role of preschool education – these are the pillars of the future vision of education, and this is a very solid foundation for our future collaboration. this consensus bears fruit, because we have experienced a spectacular development at european level in education since 2014. education is now at the top of the eu’s political agenda, and decision-makers and politicians share the ideas of the future european education area and the european universities project. i thank you for your support. i really think that we have to continue this cooperation in the future. i thank ms łybacka for this report, and i look forward to working with you in the future.
the rapporteur. education is a fundamental right. education is the key to all development. but what we've learned today is that education has another tremendous value. education has the power to bring us all together, regardless of our political differences. yes, because the responsibility for educating the next generation lies with each of us, no matter what our background is, no matter what country we come from, with educational freedom, of course, and with the preservation of an individual educational process. thank you very much for this discussion. thank you to all my colleagues. thank you, commissioner, for your pro-educational activities. i would like to thank the commission for the large number of communications and i hope that european teachers will respond to the question of young people: what do you want to be in the future? the first answer was, "a teacher". what would you like to be if you couldn't be a teacher? the answer was, "a teacher". so let's take care of the future of education.
madam president! i was in london this weekend and i wanted to bring attention to what's happening in the uk right now with the tommy robinson case. it is not that parliament should interfere in individual cases, because that is clearly unacceptable, however scandalous it may seem. but in this case, the judiciary has exceeded its powers. it seeks to restrict the right to freedom of expression of outsiders not involved in the proceedings. a ban on reporting on the trial has been issued, which is a violation of freedom of speech, civil liberties, openness and transparency of the trial. and worse, they listened. the british media has had their mouths full and is not reporting on this trial. so i'm just waiting for putin to take the opportunity to lash out at europe for its human rights record and free speech. libertarians in britain feel intimidated by left-wing militias and are afraid to come out of the closet. when we discussed the possibility of opening my parliamentary office in london, it turned out that people were afraid to rent a room for fear of the militia. this is britain in 2018.
madam president! according to eurostat data for 2016, the union accepted an average of 4,6 immigrants per 1000 inhabitants. in poland, it was 5.5 ukrainians, belarusians, georgians and other nationalities. the council has not agreed on a forced relocation mechanism. the minister should not be included in the draft council conclusions. and another thing, the construction of the nord stream i pipeline allowed russia to annex crimea. what can we do by building nord stream ii?
madam president! rule 11 (3) of the rules of procedure requires us to respect each other as members of parliament, but even more so our constituents. the president drew the attention of mrs atkinson, but mr frunzulică, responding to the speech of our colleague mr woolfe, questioned the legitimacy of the members representing the british electorate who voted for brexit. they are still citizens of the european union today, just like any other citizen. if we deny them their right to representation, we deny the democratic nature of the european union. i therefore ask the president to react to such anti-democratic statements, which are also characterized by a lack of respect for the rules of procedure.
mr. chairman, please! the vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, and the presidents of the groups, mr weber and mr verhofstadt, drew up a long list of problems facing the union which should be discussed at the european council. we have talked about immigration, the euro, trade, but nobody has said anything - except perhaps our colleague anna fotyga - about nord stream 2 and the aggressive energy policy towards at least a quarter of the countries lying to the east of the european union. when the americans withdrew from the iran nuclear deal, european companies began to worry whether they should take the us government's position into account. the european union, on the other hand, speaks a lot about solidarity and is not in the least able to persuade german companies to respect our policy of unfortunately rather fictitious sanctions.
mr president, the good news is that the euro area has strongly recovered after the series of crises ten years ago, and now the euro enjoys very strong popular support among european citizens. according to eurobarometer, two thirds of european citizens are happy to use the euro. also no member state wants to leave the euro area; just the opposite. there are new countries waiting for accession. in this context, i would like to support the initiative submitted by the commission that aims at strengthening the general institutional infrastructure of the euro area. i have no problem with the european monetary fund or with the incorporation of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance into union law, but i think that the proposal to establish a budgetary instrument for the euro area, especially when it comes to its stabilisation functions, deserves more attention and more discussion. first of all, it raises the problem of moral hazard, as does every insurance instrument. secondly, it is politically unpopular in member states, and it would require a lot of political capital in order to introduce it. but third, and most important: there is no proof that this instrument is necessary if countries follow the rules of the stability and growth pact because, in that case, it always has a sufficient fiscal space to confront the asymmetric shocks.
mr president, i will speak on the democratic accountability of the emu. i think we all agree that there is a strong link between parliamentary scrutiny and democratic legitimacy; this matters today more than ever. but, when it comes to the emu, the mechanism behind this link is far from perfect: there is a democratic accountability gap, and colleagues spoke a lot about that today. a year ago, parliament adopted a series of resolutions on the future of europe, where you opted strongly for a single institutional framework, but we believe that the democratic legitimacy of the emu can be further improved without a treaty change. we also believe that the less complex, more efficient and more transparent the governance, the more effective its scrutiny. this relationship should be an underlying principle in the ongoing reforms. we also believe that an interinstitutional agreement between parliament, the council and the commission could provide for better parliamentary scrutiny of different elements of economic governance. in particular, such an agreement could help with the better handling of the issues which require double legitimacy. we strongly support the incorporation of the esm, the fiscal compact and the srf into the framework of european law; i think this is the quickest way to upgrade the european parliament to a fully—fledged participant in defining economic policy goals and improving the democratic oversight of european governance.
mr. chairman, please! it's a good report, and it's very much needed. i'd like to thank my colleague marinescu for his quick work. i'm just saying, we're catching up today, and we're actually chasing him. i wish it was at a cost. but i want to point out one element that we're missing all the time. so we need to focus not just on regulatory issues, but also on the need to build systems that can identify, first and foremost, drones and other vehicles that are violating space. the second element, which is equally important, is the possibility of their neutralization. we should be working on this very quickly, because it's really going to be about safety, not just about vehicle identification or registration laws.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the modernisation of education in the union contains some content that is difficult to accept. that's why i voted against it. education in the classical sense includes teaching, education with attitudes to good and evil, and prevention. there is no definition of the identity of a person who, by acting creatively and pragmatically, seeks career, self-fulfillment and well-being. however, mental health is largely based on moral principles. and a morality based on destruction leads to disorder. ethical values are derived from the understanding of the idea of the truth of man's transcendent nature. and so-called constituted ethics, based on human reason alone, is inherently wrong, including the fight against gender stereotypes, to the exclusion of natural differences between women and men. similarly, the emphasis on visualization is limiting, since the primary medium of education is the word.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report on modernising education because i think it's one of the most important issues in politics today. the development of new technologies has brought many challenges to education systems, and the wave of change that comes with digitization is described by many as a tsunami that we are not prepared for. the traditional place of learning, the school, is now supplemented by many other sources of information available, not always reliable and accurate. economic changes, including digitalisation, automation and the robotisation of the labour market, have led to an increased demand for highly qualified workers with specific skills. by 2020, there will be over 750 000 vacancies in new technology sectors and a shortage of 200 000 in science and mathematics sectors. the biggest problem facing the eu labour market and also the national education systems is the lack of a skilled workforce that meets the needs of the economy. it is worth remembering that more than 40% of europeans lack basic digital skills, which creates serious barriers to entry into the technologically advanced labour market. therefore, any changes in education systems should lead to the improvement of digital skills among citizens through appropriate early education. let's get to work, because it's too late.
mr. chairman, please! as mr hannan has rightly said earlier, the european union's concern seems to be unlimited. an mp has to know everything and have a say in everything. we have just begun to worry about the difference between sport and recreational fishing, and the members are already talking about how this sinister council is plotting against our snails. there are advantages to this report, it calls for the liberalisation of licensing in order not to discourage investors, but on the other hand the union is proud of its restrictions, its restrictive requirements. and the way it works is that the union first imposes restrictive requirements, and then the production on the spot becomes unprofitable. consumers are choosing cheaper imported products, and the eu is banning them, imposing restrictions on imported products and calling for this process to be deepened. and then she teaches the whole world and takes revenge on the whole world that everyone should do as she does. it only leads to consumers being unhappy. and in addition to point 74, of course, it emphasises the important role of women in the aquaculture sector. can we not just agree on a statement that emphasizes the vital role of women in everything and end this? i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! i am concerned to note that many speakers are very skilfully defending a thesis which is unfortunately not true. well, the ancients knew that if you want peace, you have to be prepared for war. countries that have strategic retaliation capability are not attacked. it is not weakness that is the anchor and the guarantee of peace and security. the pillar of peace and security is strength. no one attacks the strong. note that the north african countries had no strategic retaliation and were destroyed. so if we want world peace, we should want countries to be able to defend themselves and not be attacked. and who decides which countries should have the right to retaliate and which should not? i don't think we have that right.
in writing. in the context of the debate on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the eu's policy on the matter, i would like to refer to the epp group conference held in the european parliament on 5 june on the situation of civil society in belarus. the photograph, which emerges from the accounts of civil society representatives, complemented by interventions by the 2006 sakharov prize laureate mr. alexander milinkievich and professor andrew wilson, author of the book "belarus: the last dictatorship in europe", underlines that belarus is a different country today than it was in 2010 or 2014. the old black and white paradigm of civil society versus the state is gradually becoming obsolete, civil society is becoming more hybrid, and the line between organizations that support and firmly reject the regime is becoming increasingly blurred. the main conclusion of the meeting was that civil society organisations should not be overlooked in the implementation of eu human rights policy. their representatives are a valuable source of information that is not politically oriented and reflects the sentiments of ordinary people to whom eu support is directed. this is why this perspective should not be excluded from the negotiation process, not only on human rights and democratisation but also on sectoral cooperation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, during the bucharest nato summit, the future membership of georgia was agreed. five months later, russia questioned this decision by the use of force and the occupation of territories of georgia. thanks to the rapid trip of cee leaders, led by the late president of poland, lech kaczynski, further russian gains in georgia were prevented. now we stand by georgia. we support the country’s european and transatlantic vocation, peace initiatives and the request for a sanctions list condemning and punishing the targeted killings of russian citizens, in particular otkhozoria and tatunashvili. we also praise the eumm role in georgia. during two sede missions to georgia we were also able to monitor territories adjacent to south ossetia and abkhazia, and we are very much concerned about the situation of people living there.
mr. chairman, please! the russian invasion of georgia was first and foremost a test for us, for our high-flying declarations, for our readiness to respond to conflicts and for our credibility with partners. unfortunately, like the fiasco of the nato summit in april 2008, this aggression has also shown how little europe really wants to and can do to defend peace and security in the face of russia. in august 2008, few leaders had the courage to speak out. only the president of the republic, lech kaczynski, understood that the lack of a strong response to the presence of russian troops in georgia would encourage president putin to use identical methods in the future. and president putin has applied them. the war in ukraine, the annexation of crimea, the russian presence in syria, the ongoing information war, are all the consequences of the european union's inaction at that time, 10 years ago. congressman javier nart said that love sometimes kills. we have a saying: "in the company of friends, dogs eat rabbits".
madam president, we hope for added value arising from cooperation between the eu and nato. there are challenges, though, and in order to avoid them we have to fulfil certain preconditions – first to avoid duplication, and therefore well—defined modalities of cooperation that are needed. secondly, the key importance of transatlantic cooperation, despite tensions in other areas, and cooperation with the uk after brexit. otherwise without these modalities we cannot fulfil the strategic autonomy of the eu. we do not have enough potential to bring greater security to the region, and therefore i am very cautious about the stressing of strategic autonomy in this report. we look forward to cooperation in areas like cybersecurity, military mobility and tackling hybrid threats.
madam president! this is another embarrassing report. most of it is reasonable. it may not be anything substantial, but it speaks to the growing threat, for example from russia, and the need to increase defence spending, in contrast to the totally irresponsible voices we have just heard from mrs post. but it also contains the insanely dangerous paragraph 33, which stresses that eu member states should be able to conduct independent military missions even when nato does not want to take action or when eu action is more appropriate. this is an attempt to upend the nato-based security order. the attempt by the union to counter nato and to give itself room to maneuver by the european powers that are trying to break away from america. for that reason, i cannot support the report.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union's planned defence cooperation will serve either the security of our countries - and we must remember that three quarters of our countries are allied in the atlantic alliance - or the sole purpose of making the defence dimension independent of real policy, thus providing the european union authorities with another instrument and gradually building up supremacy over our countries. i asked the vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, today, madam high representative, about nord stream 2, and he spoke at length about the current challenges facing the european union. not only did he not answer the question, he actually refused to take the position when he was brought to his attention. we all know from the days of clausewitz that the defense dimension must serve politics. if it doesn't serve that, it serves only power.
madam president! i'm sorry for your loss, paşcu. he is simultaneously presenting two important reports on pesco and on today's debate, and i have to say that the 360 amendments to this report, the many, many amendments to this other document and the elements of sabotage that are emerging in the far corners of this room are not sabotage of the work of our colleague, but sabotage of the conditions for europe's security in difficult circumstances, in difficult financial, economic, economic, political contexts. on the one hand, i would like to thank you for the compromises that have been reached, not in terms of optimal security solutions, but in terms of compromises, above all, for a certain political agreement to recognize in this chamber that the relations between the european union and nato are important, that they require work, that they require modification, that they require strengthening. i am of course in favour of this report and thank you for the work you have done.
in writing. the european union's cooperation with other international organisations is an important aspect of its foreign policy. the eu-nato joint declaration was signed on the sidelines of the nato summit in warsaw in 2016. the report provides a detailed analysis of the similarities and differences between the two organisations and their adaptation to a new and still-evaluated geopolitical environment. the report highlights a wide range of tools (hard and soft) that can be deployed as and when needed to enhance the mutual complementarity of the two organisations. more effective and efficient eu-nato cooperation is not an end in itself, but means achieving common security priorities and strengthening mutual values such as liberal democracy, multilateralism, the protection of human rights and the rule of law. cooperation between the two organisations must be complementary and respect each other's specificity, role and decision-making autonomy. the report also summarises the progress made in bilateral cooperation between the eu and nato since 2016. it should be stressed, however, that this is a continuous process which is still ongoing. the main areas of cooperation include: security and protection of cyberspace, expanding development opportunities for industry and research, efforts to build a stronger mutual partnership, analysis and counteraction to hybrid threats, maritime security issues, combating terrorism, military mobility, assistance to conflict-affected areas, and maintaining the peace and security of member states and associated countries.
madam president, first of all, i would call on this house to approve the macrofinancial assistance for ukraine tomorrow. ukraine has made a lot of effort and has taken a lot of important steps in order to fight corruption. i very much share the concerns that have been raised by a number of colleagues here. this is not work which has been completed; this is a work in progress. but the progress has been substantial. just a few days ago, ukraine established an independent anti-corruption court, which had been the key pre-condition for the release of macrofinancial assistance. of course, there is still a lot to be done. we want ukraine to exempt ngos from the e—declaration obligation, and this has been promised and is under execution. we want anti—corruption court legislation to be implemented by the president, and we have had a promise that it will be done as soon as possible – within the next few days. if we don’t take the decision right now, the whole thing may be postponed by several months. so i would kindly request colleagues to support this motion and open this possibility of financing to ukraine.
madam president! the eastern partnership countries expect us to firstly show interest, secondly to provide financial resources, i.e. support, and thirdly to share our own experience and experience. it is a good idea to put conditions on ukraine, mainly to ensure that the funds - in short - are not wasted. but if we are setting conditions, if we are setting thresholds, if we are suggesting solutions, then the funds we have promised should eventually go to ukraine. we should remember that the eastern border of the european parliament of the european union is ukraine, belarus, moldova. it is also the interests of these countries in terms of their economic condition, their political condition, their socio-political condition. let us be patient and consistent, but let us remember that without this help, ukraine will be condemned to contact only with the east.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we're here today to discuss macroeconomic assistance for ukraine. and there is no doubt that without the support of the union, the country will not be able to reform. however, as chairman of the committee on agriculture, i cannot fail to address the issue of abuse by ukraine of the free trade agreement, which has alarmed me from the poultry producers in the union. it concerns the import of certain parts of chicken which do not fall within the categories laid down in the trade agreement. as a result, ukrainian importers circumvent the provisions of the agreement and the sensitive product quotas established therein and import into the union duty-free large quantities of non-standard poultry products which, after minor processing in the union, are sold as traditional products. given the much lower production costs, lower standards in ukraine, these imports seriously threaten the union poultry industry. the european commission has recently informed us that it is aware of the matter and is trying to remedy it, but we are concerned about whether the eu producers will survive until the matter is settled.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in the rapidly-growing digital world, urmas paet’s report helps us in understanding the complexity of cyber-threats in peace and war and the somewhat blurred border between both at a time of hybrid threats, because ‘cyber’ is part of this – also in the division between civilians and the military and between private and public. we have to understand that many times, the targets of cyber-attacks are civilian institutions and civilian infrastructure. therefore we need an international legal system tackling ‘cyber’ and also an international humanitarian system referring to ‘cyber’ if we consider the cyber-domain as an operational domain, as defined by nato. i welcome this report, but i stress once more the necessity to cooperate between like—minded countries and societies, because the problem is so complex. i welcome cooperation between the eu and nato. quite rightly, cyber is the flagship of this cooperation, starting from the declaration at the warsaw nato summit.
madam president! union citizens expect the union to take a much greater responsibility for common security. and this is reflected in a whole range of actions that have been taken in recent times. it is worth recalling here the creation of pesco. it is worth recalling the creation of a defence fund, but also that the plans for 2021-2027 provide for as much as 32 billion euros for common security. that's a 28 percent increase. and i think that's where we have a chance to find much more cyber defense resources, because these are the threats that we face every day. but it is easy to predict that these threats will increase. so we also need to spend more money on cybersecurity.
madam president! in a sense, the cyber war is already underway. i would like to draw attention to this because, looking at the amendments that have been tabled, 338, as i recall, they too contain proposals for legislation that are not very helpful in combating cyberattacks. the debate also shows how strongly various interests are embedded in this information space, so that cybersecurity is not fully ensured in legislative processes either. i'm worried about it. but i would like to stress that all the elements contained in the commissioner's statement are so well constructed that i am happy to sign them. it's important not to waste time. it's important not to lose money. it is also important not to ignore the signals that are coming from private businesses at the moment, especially in relation to surveillance, data security threats and the immediate military threat.
madam president! the report on the circular economy presented under cohesion policy, despite the points made here, is highly controversial. it's about recycling, and it's about a broader range than we've ever seen. first, recital a states that local and regional authorities are crucial to the success of the proposed change. and if so, the question is, was this consulted with the authorities before? it is said that the waste package cannot be achieved without the financial support of cohesion policy, which the european commission is now seeking to reduce drastically. so why isn't it mentioned in the report? paragraph 12 of the document notes that the basic raw materials, i.e. natural ones mentioned by mr van nistelrooij cost less than products obtained by recycling. this means that it will be more expensive, because the union will raise the prices of traditionally produced products. all this shows that the european union is still trying to regulate and control the market from brussels.
madam president! a circular economy offers the european union the chance to grow faster, be more competitive and more productive. this is why it is so important to fully and effectively implement solutions in this field. there is no doubt that further intensive action is needed to improve waste management and put more emphasis on efficiency improvements and reuse of products. the use of cohesion policy instruments to this end can produce excellent results. however, we must remember that it is important to meet a few conditions. first, it is necessary to give greater independence to regional and local authorities, which are best placed to identify problems specific to the area and to propose effective solutions. secondly, the proposed objectives must be realistic to achieve and appropriately timed. thirdly, the role of smes in the development of new solutions and models based on the circular economy should be recognised and actively supported through various incentives and attractive funding. and to this we can add the question of funding for scientific research in this field.
madam president! cohesion policy has always played an important role in development. it has been and is an innovative policy, creating modern forms of economic activity as well as new technological solutions that promote environmental good and combat climate change and social exclusion. cohesion policy has always faced important, strategic, but also difficult challenges. these include the circular economy. recycling of waste leads to a reduction in environmental pollution and the consumption of natural resources. although it costs more today, it pays off in the long run. these bioeconomy activities are particularly visible in rural areas and in agriculture, where renewable energy sources, for example, are well developed, serving rural development and agriculture.
in writing. the structure of the plastics used in the material products is subject to irreversible changes during their use due to an increase in internal entropy. the return to the starting state, i.e. the breakdown of secondary raw materials into starting components, although theoretically possible, would require a higher energy input than that which would have been required for the use of primary raw materials. from the exergy balance, we see that 'simple recycling' has its energy limitations. repeated recycling of thermoplastics leads to shortening of polymer chains, i.e. a sharp decrease in their mechanical properties. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for iron ore. the more smelting cycles, the more likely it is that low-sulphur components, more precious than iron, such as copper, will be present in the steel structure and difficult to remove. these are fragile and inflexible. they're not suitable for car bodies. the circular economy must take account of the extreme limitations of secondary raw materials when developing new technologies to use them. the commission also found that the union industry's sales prices to unrelated customers in the union were higher than the sales prices to unrelated customers in the union during the investigation period. it is easy to see that 'simple recycling' would be extremely complex and energy-intensive in this case.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the first anniversary of the signature of the istanbul convention: current situation (2018/2753 ((rsp)). i'd like to make a little arrangement with you first, because at 10:00 we have to finish this item on the agenda. this will be followed by the traditional strategic debate with the prime ministers. this time it's the prime minister of the netherlands, so i'll be very careful to keep the speaking time strict. i would also like to suggest, given the advantage of the floor-by-floor formula, that i not give the floor-by-floor permission, but leave time for the floor-by-floor formula. we have 45 minutes for the commission's speech, for the speeches by the political groups and for the speeches by the members, and we have 5 minutes for the introduction, so that there would be 10 minutes left for the reports from the chamber, and i would therefore ask that this form of debate be accepted for today's agenda item. i understand there's an acceptance. i therefore ask the council to allow minister monika panayotov to speak on behalf of the council.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! the commission has also received comments from the polish authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures in question constitute state aid. and while i commend anna maria corrazza bildt for her strong leadership in this parliament, i would also like to remind you that the convention was established in 2011 and in just a few years all the council of europe countries except russia and azerbaijan have signed it. it has also been signed by all countries, including the european union, and most of them have ratified the convention. croatia did it last time, and they deserve a big round of applause. the istanbul convention is recognized by the un as the gold standard of nonviolence policy. it includes a chapter on prevention that says that promoting equality between women and men is the best way to prevent violence. the convention recognizes that nothing can justify violence: neither tradition, nor religion, nor culture. he even considers some religious practices, such as female circumcision, to be violent and punishable. this convention is a roadmap for national policies to combat violence. while welcoming the fact that the european union became a party to the convention in 2017, i call on the european commission and the council to extend the scope of eu ratification and to prepare a draft anti-violence directive that would have binding force as eu law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the istanbul convention is not a convention to stop violence. this is a convention on the application of gender ideology. it ignores the key causes of domestic violence, violence against women, such as the pansexuality of our culture (which we have spoken about many times in the committee, for example, in concrete examples of what is happening on the internet) or the crisis of the family, because we have data that the vast majority of violence against children takes place where the child does not live with both of his natural parents. it is characteristic that when we take for example forced marriages, they are much more common in countries that have ratified the istanbul convention than in countries that have not ratified it. mr timmermans has completely ignored the powers of the european commission under article 17. he talks about coordination, and all we hear is attacks on a third of the countries of the european union, which do not want to submit to this ideology.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, allow me to reflect very briefly on the nature of violence against women. violence against women, sexual violence against women, is about power, it’s not about sex. violence against women is an instrument of submission of women, and those who belittle violence against women believe in a society where women are under submission. what i find mind-boggling, of the extreme right, is that they would attack the istanbul convention and, at the same time, say that we should be doing more in attacking violence against women in the islamic community. if you are serious about that, then the istanbul convention will give you additional instruments to do that. i believe that if you oppose the istanbul convention with such force, it is based on an ideology that says that submission of women is part of our traditional values, and i refute that vision of our society. the istanbul convention, at the end of the day, is about equality between men and women. it is about making it clear that using violence, simply because you are stronger and because you can, to create the submission of women is unacceptable in a european society based on our common values, which demand equality of men and women.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i have to justify that i am here today in the capacity of the presidency of the council representing all eu member states, therefore i am not in a position to enter into details about the current situation in bulgaria. nevertheless, i would like to underline that it is beyond any doubt that bulgarian society is firmly opposed to any form of violence against women, as they had the opportunity to underline during the plenary debate on the stalking crimes on 2nd may. the fact that the convention law was included as a priority in the programme of our presidency is a clear demonstration that the bulgarian government is convinced of its importance. the process of ratification of the convention by the member states requires respect of the procedures according to the specific national public debates and constitutional arrangements. we are currently still waiting for clarifications from the constitutional court concerning certain aspects of the convention in relation to the bulgarian constitution, and i am convinced that this will contribute to a better-informed public debate on the topic. we will assess the situation in the light of the court’s ruling once it is available. as the presidency, i would like to underline that we are fulfilling our duties and investing our utmost efforts to achieve progress, and we will continue to work in closer cooperation with our austrian colleagues to finalise the discussions on the code of conduct towards conclusion by the european union. i would like to conclude by stressing that we share the view that violence against women and young girls and the protection of its victims is an issue of common concern that touches upon the core values of the european union. it needs to be addressed with a high level of commitment, both by the european institutions and bodies and also by our member states.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their patience. i would just like to thank you for this vote. i think we have just taken one more very important step toward the european elections of 2019. i also believe that we have found a good solution for the composition of the future parliament that is fair and objective and also respects european law. it has also been agreed by unanimity by the european council. this decision, i would like to remind you, comes on top of our earlier decisions on setting the dates for the european elections, amending the regulation on the financing of european parties and also outlining parliament’s position on the spitzenkandidaten process. i also hope that during our next plenary session, we will finalise our reform of european electoral law, also adopted by unanimity by the council. so now the challenge for all of us is to spare no efforts to increase citizens’ participation in the elections to the european parliament and strengthen the ownership of europe.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is one of the most interesting and valuable financial instruments we have. i'm very glad he was defended. firstly, because its main target audience is local government. but on this issue, which we voted on today, i have to say that i am not optimistic. i think we're not keeping up with the mass production of all kinds of packaging in any way, and that's especially true in the big cities. i think this instrument should be equipped with additional components that will actually help us deal with the growing amount of garbage. and you see this not only in big cities, but especially in landfills, where the sorting of garbage is, in short, not the most interesting.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i abstained from voting on this report because i have some doubts about certain parts of it. the polish government is of the opinion that we should promote fair market access. we cannot therefore accept the preference for renewable energy as a priority shipment. this would mean that it would be at the expense of coal, gas or cogeneration, which unfortunately is still undervalued in the european parliament. i believe that this is contrary to the market approach and the security of supply of our network. the depletion of resources, their price increases and the growing dependence on suppliers from third countries pose a serious threat to the further development of the european union. while i support the transition to a circular economy model, i think we should do this very carefully, so that it doesn't compromise energy security.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the circular economy in the context of cohesion policy, despite the points made during yesterday's debate, is highly controversial. it's about recycling, and it's about a wider range than ever before. firstly, its objectives are linked to the financial support from the cohesion policy, for which the european commission is currently drastically reducing its resources. so where's the money coming from? the report envisages increasing the cost of basic products, i.e. natural products, to cover the cost of recycled products. one of the main points in the report was that it was clearly stated that the project would bring greater benefits to the more developed regions. i come from lublin, which is not in that category of regions, and therefore i could not support the report.
mr. chairman, please! the report deplores the waste of food. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. this parliament alone generates as much waste as many cities in poland, and its production of excessive amounts of legislation leads to many other people also wasting time, paper, resources and electricity to get to know it. so it would be a measure of honesty to back off from these regulations, but in the meantime, ordering someone else to do something when you're not doing it yourself... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i take the floor today primarily because of the poor quality of yesterday's debate. on the one hand, there was a naive belief that the legislative solutions that were taken in ukraine would solve the problem of corruption. on the other hand, there were expectations that the conditions set by the european union would be so strictly enforced, under such a regime, that ukraine would not receive de facto financial resources and aid. i reject these extremes. the first is consistency, the second is concern, and the third is readiness to help in real-world situations. ukraine is too big, too important a country to disregard the tasks we set for it as the european union, but let us do so with the conditions in which those tasks are being carried out in ukraine, not in france or germany. in short, what i am asking for is first of all consistency, far-reaching concern, a certain degree of reliability, but also realism in the use of certain instruments, especially political ones.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i am in favour of further macro-financial assistance to ukraine. in view of the crisis caused by russian aggression in the east and the annexation of crimea, ukraine is in great need of such assistance. the european union should help ukraine overcome its economic weaknesses and encourage the implementation of the necessary reforms as soon as possible. i support the solution that this is not unconditional aid and that ukraine must take concrete action to receive the next batch of money. financial support must be targeted and have a measurable impact. i hope that this mechanism will implement the conditions previously agreed with the european union, such as reforming public financial management, reducing corruption or lifting the ban on timber exports, for example.
mr. chairman, please! the report we are talking about was passed by the afet committee by a vote of 45 to 0. i'm not surprised. chile is, i would say, the cradle of good europe in south america. it is also a very important member state of the union of south american nations and the community of latin american and caribbean states. the european union and chile share not only history and tradition but also strong social and economic ties. we also have our own interests and common goals. it is therefore of great importance to complete and implement the project to modernise the eu-chile cooperation agreement. in fact, it's becoming a given, as we see after the committee vote. that is why i voted for this report.
mr. chairman, please! the north atlantic treaty is a guarantee of defence and security not only for europe but also for the rest of the world. the vast majority of the countries of the union are members of nato. the report's ambitious targets for the union's relationship with nato are in line with president donald trump's repeated call for a 2% gdp commitment to defence. many eu countries are doing this, like poland, but countries like germany are lagging behind. our group had doubts about this report, which have not been completely resolved. however, we decided to vote in favour, strongly emphasising that nato is the foundation of european defence and its role should not be duplicated.
mr. chairman, please! we're not just debating a very important issue, but we're debating at a very important time. the next nato summit will be held in brussels on 11 and 12 july, the first since the warsaw summit two years ago. it's only been two years, and the world has changed a lot in terms of security, and it's changed for the worse. so you have to take that into account. the threats that have been threatening peace in europe and the world are changing very radically. we're dealing with what we call hybrid threats. we're dealing with unconventional threats. all of this makes us think, first, about the future of nato, and secondly, about the future of european security, the european union. let us remember that six european union countries are not members of nato, and seven nato countries are not members of the european union. there has been a complete change in the political situation in the united states and in turkey. it must affect our position on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! historically, we've been used to the fact that land, sea, air, and more recently space, have been theaters of war. in recent years, cyberspace has certainly joined this catalogue. so this is a very important case. and this is evidenced by the evidence that we have from many countries, and not just on conflicts, but on political actions, including those that are important for democracy, like elections. that is why the european defence union must take the issue of cyberspace and defence in this area, in this space, very seriously. in addition, the european defence agency or the european union agency for network and information security must prepare specific projects for the security of the future of the european union, europe and therefore the world, which is why i was behind this report.
mr. chairman, please! i am in favour of strengthening cyber defence in the european union and of cooperation between the european union and nato. cyber attacks on critical infrastructure, cyber espionage, disinformation campaigns are all very real threats. member states should cooperate with each other in the field of cybersecurity both within the union and with nato. the clear emphasis on improving this cooperation between the european union and nato in the cyber field, and in particular on the precise definition of priorities in the field of strategic communication, situational awareness measures, the exchange of classified information, the suppression of illegal immigration, the removal of obstacles to the rapid and efficient movement of military personnel and assets within the union, is a very good direction. i think we all need to take action to implement these solutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, the european parliament, in defence of the independent judiciary and the constitution, stands with the polish people, and may my voice be a warning as to the fate of poles and poles if the dismantling of the rule of law is brought to an end. because it's about institutions that guarantee freedom, that protect against the abuse of power, and if you don't have those institutions, you're vulnerable to the machinery of the state. the polish women know this, whose personal data was written by the policeman only because they asked some uncomfortable questions to one of the ministers. a young man who was unlucky enough to be in the path of a column of government cars, and now he's being blamed for the government limousine disaster. anyone who goes to court with a neighbor will know that if that neighbor is a member of the ruling party. we also know how unfortunate political interference in the judicial system can be. the case of thomas command. the then minister of justice, at the monuments today, had already found him guilty, a criminal. it's a quick process. for life. after 18 years in prison, he turned out to be a completely innocent person. luckily, he's out there somewhere. protecting independent courts is protecting the common man. but there is more, because it is also the credibility of the polish judicial system in the european legal space, also in the common market, where you need to be sure of investing and attracting investments. and the truth is known. it's in the documents of the venice commission, the un human rights committee, all the bodies and expertise that western democracy has put in place to assess the rule of law in a country. unfortunately, the constitutional court is a facade incapable of assessing the constitutionality of laws. unfortunately, there are more corporate ceos in the courts and fewer independent ones. unfortunately, the national council of the judiciary was created with a party affiliation. but there is the last bastion - the supreme court. but it's already shaking, because on july 3 and 4, 40% of the members of this court may be replaced as a result of forced retirement. and it's the body that evaluates the validity of elections, so it's an existential problem of polish democracy. hence the dramatic calls for a complaint to the european court of justice or at least the suspension of this law, which has saved europe's only białowieża forest from devastation. we're talking about this in the century of polish independence. then, after the extraordinary victory that stopped the bolshevik storm in the suburbs of warsaw (we call it the "miracle of the vistula", 1920), marshal piłsudski, addressing the polish youth, said: "we have won your independence of the homeland, and you will live, work and govern in it. remember that. if you turn to the east, you're at least a century behind in culture and economics. if you turn to the west, at least a century faster poland will develop. he betrays the polish state, as targowica once did, who wants to push poland back to the east again, who wants to weaken ties with the west, who wants to weaken the european union. telling the truth can't be treason. i'm expecting a wave of hate, which will only confirm that i'm telling uncomfortable truths. defending the constitution is a duty. poland needs constitutional patriotism today, so today, standing up for the constitution, for the independence of the courts, we stand up and demand the rights of poles and poles. (audience is agitated)
on behalf of the ppe group. standing today in defence of the judiciary and the constitution, we are standing up for the rights of poles and poles, and their good future in the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! i was going to start with something else, but i thought i'd start with a little debate with my colleague janusz lewandowski. well, it's not like you say. it's not inconvenient truths, and no one will persecute you for those inconvenient truths. we can't control the heat, it happens to us all. these are not inconvenient truths. you're simply using exaggerated and isolated facts to construct a narrative that has nothing to do with this country we both live in. there's one thing i wanted to say about mr. weidenholzer. i visited your beautiful country recently and i can only say one thing: i can assure you that the rule of law in poland, the separation of powers and all that we are talking about, are no worse than in your country. so while i appreciate your concern, i assure you that in this respect poland is not very different from austria. i now turn to the chairman. in your speeches at the end of that year (i myself listened to you in the libe committee) you repeatedly lamented the polish government's refusal to engage in dialogue with the european commission, suggesting a lack of goodwill and arrogance on the polish side. that was not, in my opinion, a fair assessment. but as we all know, the polish government, after its reconstruction and the change of prime minister, has since the beginning of the year made another attempt at intensive dialogue, seeking to reach an agreement with the commission and to end this, in our opinion, unfortunate and unnecessary procedure of checking the rule of law in poland. but not only and the president spoke about it because the polish government went against many of the commission's demands, even if it considered them not very reasonable, for example, there were such demands on the age difference between women and men. the polish parliament has recently made significant changes and adjustments to the regulations it has adopted, inter alia, by weakening the influence of the minister of justice on the organisation of the courts, by strengthening the role of the national council of the judiciary and of the president rather than the minister, by publishing outstanding but only archival judgments of the constitutional tribunal, by amending the rules on assessors, by imposing additional conditions on the possibility of bringing extraordinary proceedings, by equalising, as the commission wanted, the retirement age of judges of both sexes, etc. we could re-frame your speech so that you're talking about these compromises, not the differences. poland has therefore done a great deal to reach an agreement and to take account of the commission's reservations. unfortunately, it takes goodwill and understanding on both sides to reach an agreement. it is regrettable that the commission you represent does not wish to show this goodwill and understanding. you probably think that by contacting certain legal circles and the opposition in poland, you have the support of polish society in your activities. it seems that mr weidenholzer also thinks that he speaks on behalf of poland, and not only on behalf of the extremely ideologized forces in poland and abroad, for example in this parliament, as can be heard in the speeches. nothing could be more wrong. all the data shows that the reforms undertaken by law and justice have huge public support. in august 2007, 81 per cent of poles polled said they supported judicial reform. so please don't refer to polish society, to poles, as you criticize here. you can criticize the details, but you can't dismiss the need for reform. the poles know that it is not a question of violating the rule of law, but of restoring it, they know how the courts have operated so far, how efficient they have been and what the quality and independence of their judgments have been. and now i'm going to quote a non-polish man. günter verheugen, the former eu commissioner for enlargement, recently said in an interview with a polish website: "i don't think the european commission has the right competence to deal with this issue. . . . of course he has the tools and can use them. i think, however, that - excuse me, mr president, that is mr verheugen's opinion - he is not doing it very well. the commissioners don't know what to do. they have no idea what's going to happen, and that's another thing we should consider: the consequences of our actions. 'i have one simple advice for all parties to the dispute,' says verheugen, 'settle the dispute (...) i am not an expert in these matters, he continues, but i know it's not just me, my polish colleagues obviously did not know that the polish justice system needs reform because it does not meet modern standards. the question is whether we're operating with double standards or with the same rules. in europe, says verheugen, "there is a double standard because the polish government is not part of the so-called mainstream". that's the end of the quote. he concluded by saying, very characteristically: 'europe is living in an age of hypocrisy'. very good, in my opinion. the secret of the policy is that there are many countries in the union which deserve your concern and attention more than you do. i can tell you privately one day which countries they are. the solutions adopted in poland are used in other countries, as you know. and as far as political influence on judges and the tripartite division of powers is concerned, i would urge my colleagues in the european parliament to look more closely at their countries, for example my colleagues in germany, i see that they are here, i would ask them to pay attention to this. then maybe there'll be a little less hypocrisy. a little less hypocrisy in this room and a little less hypocrisy in this debate. another prominent european politician, the president of the bundestag, wolfgang schäuble, recently said: 'in observing some of the discussions between brussels and countries like poland and hungary, but also the czech republic and slovakia, i would like to advise: let's not appear arrogant. i understand that eastern european countries may sometimes feel that their arguments do not count. in conclusion, we have done everything possible to put an end to this dispute, which is harmful to the union. and now the vast majority of poles believe that the time for our concessions is over. we therefore await with great calm and determination the action of the commission and the european council, ready, of course, to continue to inform and explain our position.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm looking forward to another debate on poland today. it exposes the hypocrisy, the hypocrisy, which has been mentioned many times today, and the fraud. i hear that polish sovereignty is despised here and there is no respect for the polish state and poles. according to public opinion polls, half of poles have a negative opinion of the justice system. those were the days when judges in the tusk administration tracked internet users critical of the government. at that time, mr timmermans, you were silent when poland was ruled by a pro-european union regime under the dictates of brussels, which replaced the leading role of soviet russia with that of the european union. you're concerned about democracy and the rule of law, and in this chamber, you've unlawfully punished a member of parliament who was exercising his right to freedom of expression. you may disagree with congressman korwin-mick, but it turns out that you're the one who doesn't respect the right to free speech. it was in the uk that right-wing journalist tommy robinson was jailed for reporting on the mass rape trials of immigrants. i will not prolong my speech by citing examples. they are well known to all those who have been involved in poland in any way, but when after so many debates about poland i hear demands that it get rid of its sovereignty, i have to ask myself what is really going on. or is it about democracy and the rule of law, which in poland is not threatened? or is it about prestige? or to deprive poland of the last of the freedoms that poland cannot take away?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this debate, like several previous ones, says very little about the state of affairs in poland. it is very eloquent and says a lot about the state of the european parliament and the european union. the union continues to focus on taking away from nation states further attributes of sovereignty. the poles, like all other nations, do not need to have the best governments and the best courts. i wish it were, but it doesn't have to be. they must be assured that no one from outside will impose on them something that they have rejected in a democratic vote. how unequal, how unfair the treatment of poland is, was shown recently by the case of the polish constitutional court being criticized. there's been a lot of criticism. and yet for years, no one has raised, for example, the question of the functioning of the constitutional court in the united kingdom. and there is no constitutional court at all and britain can function as it pleases, and the poles are not granted this right! and what's more, the uk has no constitution at all, and somehow the european union doesn't mind, and it lets the british people function as they please. and the poles are not allowed that right! the poles want the right to decide the functioning of their own country without outside interference. and that's the right of my own people that i defend. criticising poland in such a way as to support one party against another is an unacceptable and scandalous interference in poland's internal affairs. this is why the union is increasingly seen as an 'anti-european union'. we have to learn from this, because this is a real disaster. this is a very bad road.
mr. chairman, please! of course you're right. there's no debate here, just a series of readings that have been prepared. but that's not surprising. the left that rules the european union has a long tradition of disciplining unruly nations. whenever she doesn't like the elections in a country, whenever she doesn't like the results of democratic elections, she always tries to kick the table and undermine them. you just lost the election in poland and you have to accept that. you guys need to stop fooling around, because what you're doing here is pathetic. but that's not what we agreed, is it? that's not the kind of democracy we fought for here, to win the wrong people, right? so the deal is that every time one country deviates from a predetermined course, the others will shake it until it comes back on course. because those who are now demanding intervention in poland are also afraid of losing the elections in their country, and expect that their grateful colleagues from the platform will destabilize the situation in their country until they return to power. this is the system of mutual adoration that is currently being practiced in our country. i'm not a supporter of either party. i think it's the same for us, whether pis rules or platform rules, but i don't allow such interference in the affairs of my country.
in writing. in today's parliamentary speeches (lewandowski, verhofstadt) accusations were made of law and justice's alleged links with kremlin russia. that's curious. in the first case, we are dealing with a former eu commissioner who was actively involved in the campaign of a power camp in poland close to him in 2011, which in many respects is closely linked to the kremlin's policies. the first days of the civic platform government in 2007 saw a turnaround in policy towards russia, the lifting of the justified polish veto against the eu-russia agreement, the conclusion of an unfavourable agreement with gazprom, the further deepening of relations after the smolensk disaster leading to the conclusion of an interstate agreement with the fsb, and the visit of the polish state electoral commission to moscow in may 2013 for consultations with the russian electoral commission. mr verhofstadt has his own history of working with the kremlin, which i will refer to in full at another time. but i want to be clear, in reply to both of you, that my views on the kremlin's actions are known, not vague, as in the case of both of you. i'm on the blacklist of putin. i am an associate of the late president lech kaczyński, who was insulted by lewandowski, and of president jarosław kaczyński, in whose government i was a minister. i don't want to be insulted by people who should be silent, ashamed of their past attitude towards russia. in this context, timmermans' announcement of his departure to moscow sounds particularly ironic.
madam president! we're talking about a very important case. the figures that have been quoted here are proof of this: that there are 50 million people in regulated professions. but every other time i hear a speech, i hear a kind of justification for it, which is the health care system, the doctors. and i don't know if it's ignorance or manipulation, because we have to remember that we're talking about thousands, thousands of different professions: locksmith, mason, painter, not just a doctor, lawyer or architect. and these thousands of professions, which are held by tens of millions of people, are terribly bureaucratized, over-regulated in the european union, and particularly in some member states. the result is that there is a restriction of access for young people, young aspirants to these professions, a restriction of competition, and the restriction of competition, of course, increases prices, reduces quality. i therefore like the direction of this directive, but alongside it, in parallel, work should be done in the european union and the member states to deregulate, to reduce the bureaucracy associated with regulated professions.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! one of the fundamental freedoms in the european union is the freedom to work and to conduct a business. to do this, we should consistently remove all barriers to mobility, and above all administrative barriers. the fact that only a small percentage of citizens in the european union still work outside their country of origin is evidence of their existence. one of the barriers to mobility, not only between member states but also within member states, is the over-regulated rules on access to different professions. very often they are a manifestation of protectionism, which in fact kills healthy competition and hinders development. such over-regulation of professions, such as lawyers, also has negative effects on consumers, which is reflected in the high prices of legal or notarial services. the evaluation of regulated professions in european countries has shown that national regulations are often not based on sound and objective analysis. for this reason, the introduction of a mandatory proportionality analysis is very necessary. and from this place, i would like to express my deep support for the legislative initiative under discussion. the establishment of a common framework, a proportionality test or new rules on competition will make it possible to exploit the opportunities offered by the single market and facilitate access to the professions. unfortunately, this proposal has been criticised by many colleagues, including those in the employment committee, and i would like to dispel some of the myths about it. member states will continue to be free to decide how to regulate access to professions. the new directive will only introduce a test to show whether the new regulations are proportionate. the directive fully respects the principle of subsidiarity and does not give the european commission any additional instruments to block regulation at national level.
madam president, we should be happy that we have come to the end of these negotiations on a very important piece of legislation. the directive on the proportionality test before adoption, a new regulation of professions, because this is legislation which improves the functioning of the internal market for services. there are a number of other obstacles on this market, and we should be happy that at least one of them will be reduced. i don’t share the concerns of some of the colleagues here that this is going to undermine the competences of national states. this is a good step forward which should be followed by other initiatives, but for at least for this one i would like to express my thanks to the commission, and of course to our rapporteur, andreas schwab. we are talking about the obligation now imposed on member states, before they introduce a new regulation on regulated professions, to check to what extent these new proposals are effective, and whether they do not go too far in simply imposing restrictive conditions for provision of services. this is a good day for the internal market for services, which has not been very lucky recently, and some of the initiatives have not been adopted by the parliament. so for this reason, i express my joy and i would also like to express my thanks to all those who contributed to this final outcome.
in writing. – the european union has managed to harmonise the requirements for various professions, such as brokers, auditors and others, in order to facilitate the free movement of workers across the eu and to unlock the full potential of the single market. furthermore, the harmonisation of the professional services contributes to the higher protection of consumers. although i support further unification, i believe a special status should apply to medical workers, due to the specificity of the healthcare system and a need to protect those services. the uniqueness of the public health system was confirmed by numerous rulings of the european court of justice, for example in the case bressol and others, dealing with the quotas for non-belgian nationals in the francophone medical universities in belgium. therefore, such professions should be excluded from the scope of the proposal. moreover, the directive sets the general obligations for member states prior implementing additional restrictive measures. i welcome the addressing of this issue by the european commission and an attempt to bring more clarity to the process. the commission will be continuously assessing the national professional regulations and overview compliance with the existing eu legislation.
deputising for the author. – madam president, i would like to speak on behalf of the chair of the committee on development, linda mcavan, because she cannot be here this evening. the cotonou agreement with the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific concerns the union’s cooperation with 78 countries. one in five of the world’s population lives in those countries, and the proportion is set to rise. no other eu partnership agreement has a similar geographic scope. the cotonou agreement covers trade, development, cooperation and the political dimension. it provides a detailed list of human rights and democratic principles that the parties must comply with. the agreement expires in february 2020 and negotiation must be launched by august this year. many stakeholders have been consulted over the past two years and the partnership has been completely evaluated. also, in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly we have discussed the future of the cooperation beyond 2020. also, our parliament contributed to the reflection by a resolution prepared by my colleague norbert neuser, which was adopted in october 2016. this resolution stressed that the next agreement should maintain the acquis of the cotonou agreement, notably the legally-binding nature of the agreement, the political dialogue and the essential elements of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. ahead of the adoption of the mandate, our committee on development thought it would be useful to present the ep priorities for the upcoming negotiations, taking into account the fact that parliament needs to give its consent to the final agreement and that it should also be fully and regularly informed about the negotiations whilst they are ongoing. we understand that agreeing on the mandate within the council is taking longer than expected and is proving difficult. commissioner, minister, as you have seen in the questions addressed to you, parliament has a number of concerns, relating notably to the consequences of the shift towards regional compacts for the preservation of strong, overarching acp cooperation. the question of the balance between the three regional components is also important in view of the enhanced partnership with africa. political dialogue is a fundamental part of the cotonou agreement and must remain a central and legal pillar of the overarching framework and at regional level. we believe that the effectiveness of the political dialogue should be improved, notably through better monitoring of the human rights situation in the partner countries. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in particular sustainable development goal (stg) 17, stresses the need for true multi-stakeholder partnerships. there is a need for a reinforced role for parliaments, civil society and regional and local authorities, starting right from the phase of negotiating the new agreement. the new partnership is perceived as one going beyond aid, and going further than a recipient-donor relationship. this is very welcome. we insist on the need to put the 2030 agenda, the sdgs and the european consensus on development at the heart of the future acp-eu partnership. the eradication of poverty should remain a central element of this future agreement, and we should live up to the 2030 agenda commitment ‘to leave no one behind’. with this debate, we would like to receive more information on the future institutional design and the future interplay between the joint council and the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). let me take the opportunity to repeat the importance of strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the future agreement, guaranteeing real consultative power for the future overarching jpa and ensuring that it provides for open, democratic and comprehensive parliamentary dialogue. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is an innovative institution, and we should take the opportunity of the future agreement to consolidate its legitimacy. the european parliament believes that the assembly should be closely associated with the implementation of the agreement and that it should be regularly consulted on all matters of importance for the partnership. last but not least, the acp side has decided to widely disseminate the negotiating mandate of the acp group of states. can the presidency promise that the council will publish the negotiating directives? also, will the commission publish textual proposals during the negotiations? i look forward to your answers, and thank you very much for your attention.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! today we're leaning towards renewing the cotonou agreement. after 18 years of operation, half of the acp countries are still among the world's least developed countries. their combined share of world trade is less than 5% and their share of world gdp is only 2%. today, the most serious problem is uncontrolled migration, which is a huge threat to the development of the acp countries, because young, strong and courageous people leave their homelands who could influence the development of their homelands. i agree with the call for more effective mechanisms to be established for return and readmission strategies. the european union should support the acp countries on the ground and stimulate their economies. the representatives of the acp countries say to us, the representatives of the european union: do you want to make the strongest, the youngest, the bravest leave africa, so that africa really becomes a dying continent? this ill-considered immigration policy has unfortunately borne bad fruit.
mr. chairman, please! it seems that the european union's policy towards the acp countries is a failure, fortunately one of the few failures of the european union in foreign policy. almost 20 years of the agreement, about 40 years of the acp group, and what have we achieved? the room? it's not often the site of bloody wars. democracy? what is it? it's not often you can say he's in charge. human rights? often they are only on paper. the economic growth? it's hard to say anything about that. i may be overstating this, but i want to make it clear to all those involved in this agreement that the mistakes of almost 20 years ago cannot be repeated. you can't go through with the new deal with the same philosophy. in my view, one of the reasons why our policy towards the acp countries has failed is that it has been, as some have said here, based on the objective of aid. so when you only use aid, very often - i don't want to say only, but very often - you only use resources, capital, and therefore not only money, but also energy, time, etc. in my view, the new agreement should be based on partnerships to achieve specific objectives, not just aid. note that there are more effective, though less time-consuming, measures, for example, in the united states and, more recently, in china. but these countries are not geared to help, they are geared to achieve, and i think that's the pattern that we should adopt in these relationships.
mr. chairman, please! i'm a defense and security policy expert, and this is how i look at africa: from the perspective of conflict, of threats, but also, unfortunately, of the most dramatic events that africa is not lacking. and i have to say that i also think, like my colleague joachim zeller, that we need a legal framework, a political framework, to be really effective in responding to the events that are happening in africa. and i also support this diagnosis that adam sheinfeld has made, that we really cannot be satisfied today with what we have gained in africa, not from a security standpoint, not from a social standpoint, not from an economic standpoint, not from a stabilization standpoint, where we have gained something. i would very much like the european parliament, the european union, to keep in mind the most important objectives to be achieved and to use new techniques or new methods to stabilise and improve the situation in africa when preparing the new framework agreement. otherwise, we'll be spending money just to appease our own conscience.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm happy to be here for this debate. in my hometown, gorzow wielkopolski, we have a monument to the great polish poet of the romani language, bronisław wajs (papuszy), we have her street, that's what children learn in schools. i hope you can show off in your cities, too. if there are examples like that, well, raise your hand, i'd love to see it. because it's not good. we have problems in europe. only in the last decade, from france, from italy, from denmark, the roma have been expelled. martin schulz, guy verhofstadt, they were protesting against... what's the big deal? and they protested because there was no vigorous action being taken. i think we should follow the trail that lívia járóka and a colleague who was speaking afterwards talked about: we should just work together with this community. to work as hungary does and never to use this case as an instrument for political struggles. people just need to be helped.
mr. chairman, please! in the culture committee, i am in a sense in charge of the financial support for erasmus+ programmes. that's why i'm following the different minorities and national minorities in this program. and i have to say, the roma community doesn't work there. that's borderline statistical error. however, the situation of the youngest generation of roma, i.e. children, has improved only slightly. a year later, they leave school, but mostly at the elementary level. i am drawing attention to this because we must unfortunately accept the consensus of the council and the commission that it is bad, but that it is acceptable as regards the reality of the assessment, and not acceptable as regards the prospects. we need a much more effective programme, much better targeted and much better coordinated, also at national level. this is where the trouble is.
i'd still be thinking about so-called dead languages like latin.
mr. chairman, please! we all agree in the committee on culture that the recognition of linguistic competences is a goal, a challenge and a good to be pursued. we agree with you, too, commissioner. notabene, if i had known what the commissioner was going to say, i might not have spoken. but one thing we always miss is that we speak as if there is no addressee to this postulate. since we know that this is a matter for the individual countries, it is worth mentioning the countries with which we have the greatest problems, where diplomas are not recognized, where the recognition of everything that falls within the area of competence is not categorized. we should talk about this. i was the minister of culture for seven years and i know that it is extremely mobilizing pointing out the flaws, the errors, pointing out exactly the address that should be reformed or implemented a certain project, is effective. that is why i have a request to the commissioner: let us say where we have the greatest problems.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for having this debate here in the parliament, because it’s reinforced our fundamental message that education is really probably the most powerful vehicle of social integration and social inclusion, and the language aspect of this vehicle is even more important in the european union, which is a multi-lingual community. so it has its own social role, and the education of languages, both majority official languages and also the minority languages for the minority communities, is of utmost importance from the point of view of the future of europe. but it is also the economic aspects of the education of languages. the more languages we know, the more competitive we are, and it can be one of the most important underpinning of the single market and the economic aspects of the european union and also the future competitiveness of the european union. so thank you for this very fruitful debate. i rely on you in the future when we encourage the member states for closer cooperation to have the mutual recognition of diplomas and school papers and language certificates and working towards a european education area.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this important and enriching debate. i believe that there is a very wide consensus regarding the importance not only of learning foreign languages, but also of preserving the so—called smaller languages. this is not only key to the ambition of creating a european education area, but even more crucial to the task of building europe for the future, based on common values and mutual understanding of our diverse traditions. parliament can be sure that the council will advance quickly on this agenda. now please allow me to say a few words in my mother tongue. – бих искала да се обърна на български към всички вас, тъй като това е последното ми участие в пленарна зала, последният дебат в качеството ми на министър за българското председателство, вземащ участие от името на съвета. бих искала сърдечно да благодаря през изминалите шест месеца за изключително добрия дух и диалог на сътрудничество, който имахме; за привилегията и честта да участвам в наистина важни дебати от европейския дневен ред, важни както за бъдещето на европейските политики, които са важни най-вече за бъдещето на европейските граждани. така че за мен бе наистина чест да говоря от името на съвета и да бъда с вас в пленарна зала и с радост ще предадем щафетата от юни месец на колегите от австрия. удоволствие е, че имах възможност именно последния дебат, в който взимам участие, да бъде посветен на младите хора, на образованието, на културното и езиковото многообразие, които са основата всъщност за изграждането на обща европейска идентичност на всички нас. и показваме, че всъщност, когато трите институции работят заедно в една посока, наистина съединението прави силата, което е и девизът на българското председателство. благодаря ви, наистина бе удоволствие за мен. надявам се да е взаимно.
it's always nice to feel the linguistic community of slavic languages. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in the context of the debate on improving the situation of language teaching and mutual recognition of language competences in the european union, i would like to stress the importance of language skills for increasing mobility in the eu. in this respect, i ask the commission to make available, within the erasmus programme, language tests and courses to all beneficiaries of the programmes. such a solution could contribute both to increasing the mobility of the scientific and administrative staff of this programme and to improving the linguistic competences of all its participants. enabling everyone to learn languages under erasmus would be an important contribution of the union to promoting multilingualism and the learning of foreign languages. furthermore, in reference to my report on the modernisation of education in the union, i stress the need to integrate foreign language learning more fully into vocational education and training programmes.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the closure of the union market for ivory to combat poaching (2018/2750 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i wasn't expecting commissioner navracsics to be here at this point. this is a different portfolio. so i'm going to address the commissioner with one problem, but in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i'm going to start with the element that's most important to me. i cannot accept the current situation where the world is losing between 8 and 20 billion euros a year in illegal trade in animal products. i cannot accept a situation where there is a 7,000% increase in rhino poaching and up to 30,000 elephants are killed in africa every year. we're not effective here. but i have to say that we're effective in other ways: in chasing or hindering artists from moving between continents, when they use historical instruments that are made from brazilian rosewood, rosewood from madagascar, or other animal-derived materials. i'm drawing attention to this tension between fighting the pathology and making it difficult -- in this case, for artists -- to move between continents.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for those valuable contributions to the debate. we have taken good note of your views and mr zdrojewski’s remarks as well. we are very much aware that the eu is expected to continue playing a leading international role in the fight against ivory trafficking. we are, of course, also aware of the measures taken by the united states, china and by some of the eu member states. we are looking closely at those measures in our reflection on the eu regime on the ivory trade.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr bogdan zdrojewski, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on structural and financial barriers to access to culture (2017/2255 (ini)) (a8-0169/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for the first time, the european parliament has a report covering the whole of the issue of cultural participation, and more specifically the barriers to access. the title of the report itself may be misleading, as research prior to this report shows that the biggest barrier is not poor infrastructure or the cost of accessibility, but lack of education. of course, for the world of culture, the possibilities of creating new goods are the most important: talent, work, but also, of course, financial possibilities. however, a key barrier to cultural reception is the many educational neglects. the responsibility for the development of culture naturally falls to national and local governments at all levels. it should include three elements at once: the education of artists, the education of the public and the construction of infrastructure for the first-to-second encounters. what is particularly noteworthy about the report? first, the catalogue of human rights in culture (there are 47 existing legal bases in this document), the recognition of culture as a key area of activity, the appreciation of the importance of the creative industries, also for the economic prosperity of europe, the recognition of the role of cultural dialogue, the rejection of the phenomena of cultural exclusion, the appreciation of the importance of cultural heritage, the need to protect and promote it, and the need to take into account technological, civilizational changes for participation in culture. it is worth mentioning here article 27 of the universal declaration of human rights, which states that everyone has the right to freely participate in culture. what does culture give us? a chance to understand the world better. it helps build a knowledge-based society. it is the most important source of inclusive processes, a source of wealth, creates a special area of values, including positive emotions. which report entries should be considered as key? there are 70 of them, not counting the preamble and the reasons. i'll just quote the ones that are illustrative to show the scale of the references. first, the need to develop cultural strategies for children and young people. this is also a recommendation to the member states. recognising access to culture as one of the priorities of the political agenda of the european union. the need to simplify the rules, the rigors, the tax systems that affect artists in particular. the link between participation and access to culture is stronger. the need to provide financial guarantees, public funds for culture (here we have a call for financial protection also in times of crisis). to point out that funding for cultural activities is not just an expense, it is also an investment. the quality of access to culture is a source of strength for the creative economy. the need to reduce tax burdens across borders. to consolidate tax policy in the european union, especially as regards vat. in addition to exclusions due to age, health, lack of infrastructure, especially in the place of residence, a new exclusion is emerging digital exclusion. i would like to thank very warmly the people who are working on the data collection (eurostat and eurobarometer). these are the key, key years 2011-2016. let me remind you that the cultural sector employs over 8 million people, or 3.7% of the workforce. as many as 36% of europeans did not attend any cultural event in 2015, but as many as 83% of young people did attend such an artistic event, which i would also like to point out.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the committee on culture and education (cult) and in particular the rapporteur, bogdan zdrojewski, for his work on this report. it raises the crucial issue of structural and financial barriers preventing access to culture. culture is not a side issue or an added extra. on the contrary, it is at the heart of the european project. this was confirmed by the heads of state and government in their conclusions last december. culture is part of our identity. it gives meaning to historical events and feelings, and it helps us to communicate across languages and nationalities. culture and creativity are also important engines for economic growth, yet figures show that more than one third of europeans do not participate in cultural activities at all. i share your analysis regarding the obstacles preventing wider cultural participation, both on the demand and supply sides. more efforts are needed to promote interest in culture, starting with children at a young age. at the same time, we need to ensure a market for cultural and creative professionals that is less fragmented, and where they have sufficient access to finance and enjoy viable contractual conditions. your valuable recommendations fed into the preparation of the proposal for a new european agenda for culture that the commission presented in may. the new agenda intends to exploit synergies between culture and education, to strengthen links with other policy areas, and to help the cultural and creative sectors to grasp the opportunities of the digital shift. the commission will play its part to help member states achieve these goals. let me give you a few concrete examples. first, under the creative europe programme, the commission will launch a project on cultural and creative spaces and cities to promote cultural participation and social and urban regeneration. second, we will support regions in focusing their smart specialisation and macro—regional strategies on culture. here the commission is already promoting sustainable cultural tourism through a dedicated european initiative as part of the european year of cultural heritage. third, we will organise regular dialogue with the cultural and creative sectors in the context of the renewed industrial policy strategy. this will identify policy needs and support a comprehensive policy framework at eu level. finally, the commission will propose a mobility scheme for professionals in the cultural and creative sectors under creative europe. we cannot have this discussion without mentioning the important role of the european year of cultural heritage. one of the objectives of the year is to make cultural heritage accessible to all by removing social, cultural and physical barriers. i am grateful for the continued enthusiasm of the parliament for the european year, and i would like to use this opportunity to warmly thank president antonio tajani for organising a high-level event dedicated to the year in the european parliament on 26 june. i hope that many of you will be able to take part. let us keep up the momentum of the year and work together to ensure its legacy. turning again to mr zdrojewski’s report: you stress the importance of proper financing and public support. this is indeed critical. the current creative europe programme already helps by promoting the circulation of cultural and creative works and of artists across borders – but we have to do more. this is why, in our proposal for the future creative europe programme published two weeks ago, we propose a funding increase of around 34%. this will enable us to reinforce support across the board, to add specific sectoral activities, to support the mobility of cultural and creative people and to encourage the activities of the european cultural and creative sectors on the world scene. i would ask you to support our proposal for the future creative europe in the tough negotiations ahead. we have a great opportunity to create an ambitious framework for culture: a framework that will enable more europeans from all backgrounds to take part in cultural activities, and a framework that will boost the circulation of european artworks and help cultural professionals and artists perform or work in other countries. let’s use this opportunity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i too congratulate mr zdrojewski on his very good report on the issue of access to culture. it is a theme at the heart of cultural policy, considered from both a national and a community perspective, but above all crucial from the perspective of citizens. i am particularly interested in the use of new technologies for cultural purposes, which is particularly important because it allows us to reach new, difficult to reach or non-traditional audiences. we're talking about digital tools here. the appropriations entered in this article are purely provisional and may be used only after transfer to other chapters in accordance with the financial regulation. i believe that digital tools can be a means of overcoming social barriers and in this context digital education should be part of the learning process from the earliest age to develop relevant competences and knowledge. public support remains the main means of financing cultural activities. i too point out that fiscal policy can play an important role in financing the cultural and creative sectors by introducing reduced vat rates. in this context, better coordination of national cultural policies and fiscal policies as a tool to stimulate cultural participation is important. mr. minister, congratulations again.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me once more thank mr zdrojewski for this report, which very eloquently identifies all the barriers – structural and financial barriers – to access to culture. this is very important for us because, if we think of culture not only as a leisure-time activity or as a hobby, we have to acknowledge that culture plays a very important role in establishing and creating communities and also in keeping those communities alive, not only in urban areas but also in rural and remote areas. in some areas, culture is the only link of belonging, of community, which can keep the people there and keep people interested in living there. that is why access to culture is a very important aspect of developing cultural policy at european level for the future. the report is a significant contribution in mapping out all these problems and we can design our road map for the future on the basis of your comments and contributions. i would like to thank parliament for this fruitful debate and for the report. we will work on overcoming all the barriers and difficulties in culture.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much for the compliments, including the compliments from the commissioner. i also accept it as a thank you to all those who worked on the data for this report, because it took the longest. as regards the conclusions, i would point out that education can be considered the most important factor in determining the quality of cultural participation. yes, the size of this participation is also determined by other factors, including material, infrastructural, etc., whereas education, deficiencies, defects, errors in the educational processes are absolutely crucial and decisive for the quality of life and participation in culture. the second conclusion, which is very important, and a little surprising, is that demand is more important than supply in the cultural field today. and what has happened is that, because of the various barriers that i'm talking about in this report, we have a very, very attractive supply -- and you could say -- interesting supply in terms of variety, quantity and size, etc., etc., and we have a problem with demand. up to 40% of europeans do not consider participation in culture to be important, crucial, or even necessary in some cases. third, the family and school have a fundamental role in preparing children to participate in culture. these two elements, these two addresses are particularly important. i'll put that in my report. another thing is the need to remove fiscal barriers to the mobility of artists and cultural professionals. and finally, a new coherent digital strategy for cultural activities is needed. what do i want to wish for all of us? i hope that in the next term of the european parliament, when we discuss such important issues, we will be able to do so at a better time, in prime time, perhaps not at night. i wish the commissioner and all of us the same. then we'll feel that culture is actually more important.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the problem of barriers to access to culture concerns cultural institutions, member states and regional authorities. the free participation in culture must be one of the fundamental issues of national, but also community, policy, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. an active and accessible cultural sector is important for strengthening civic engagement and knowledge, while promoting cultural heritage and developing cultural diversity. it is necessary to facilitate investment and diversify the financing of the cultural and creative sectors, thereby unlocking their potential to generate growth and jobs. these translate into artistic activities, skills development, digitalisation, innovation and the formulation of new business models, as well as the strengthening of the competitiveness of the european cultural and creative sectors. the report identifies useful solutions, calling for the mainstreaming of access to and participation in culture in other policy areas. the report emphasises the cross-cutting nature of cultural issues and their impact on other areas of social life, including their importance for economic growth, and recognises the need for member states to ensure adequate education for artists and audiences, as well as the state of artistic infrastructure and tangible cultural heritage.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. in 2011, the commission published data showing that as many as four out of five eu citizens saw corruption as a serious problem in their country. in the same year, the commission therefore introduced an anti-corruption package, recognising that citizens deserve access to a reliable assessment of the state of corruption in the member states. the home affairs commissioner further stated that politicians and decision-makers are not sufficiently determined to take action to combat this phenomenon and that the report on the fight against corruption could become a factor in stimulating the political will to take appropriate action. the first report was consequently published in 2014. unfortunately, in 2017, the commission decided that such a report is not the best practice. i'm not going to let you do this. since then, anti-corruption reforms have been suspended in one member state, and attempts to liberalize existing laws have been made in another, leading to mass street demonstrations in many cities. the public was also shocked by the two dramatic murders of investigative journalists who were tracking the withdrawal of european funds by organised crime groups, and by the revelation of the links between politicians and the panama papers. we still do not have full knowledge of the interference of a third country in the bribery of european politicians, even though the practice was described in the report of the independent investigative body published by the council of europe in april this year. i'm not going to let you do this. please tell me if the commission still maintains that the anti-corruption report is not the best way to proceed, or if commissioner malmström was right that the anti-corruption report can become a factor that stimulates the political will to fight corruption.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the fight against corruption is not only about prosecuting corruption offences, it is not only about olaf or the prosecution, but also, and even more importantly, about prevention by creating clear laws, transparency in decision-making, effective control mechanisms. unfortunately, that can be a bad thing. the court's numerous audits have shown that not only the member states but also the commission and its agencies often lack transparency, even in such obvious matters as public procurement. it is wrong that the commission has failed to report on its anti-corruption activities, because this shows that the commission is underestimating the problem of fighting corruption and the issue of transparency of its own actions. in october 2016, commission vice-president timmermans promised that a second report on this issue would be forthcoming very soon. unfortunately, that's not what happened. so perhaps it would be better if commissioner timmermans would stop dealing with the rule of law in poland and see to it that the second anti-corruption report on the european union is published.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i feel that our discussion is being conducted with such a deep conviction of the rightness of the matter, albeit in a not entirely accurate manner. well, every corruption is a crime, no doubt, but not every crime, especially not every economic crime, is corruption. we should separate the two. secondly, we should not focus on cases of misuse of eu funds alone, but on corruption in general. another point. corruption is not just an economic problem, as we try to portray it, it's not just a loss of budget revenues. corruption is the demolition of the social system, corruption is the undermining of values. people want to know that they live in a society, in a community, where values are respected. and corruption is, of course, clearly against those values. i want to say that we should have mechanisms that corruption is detectable. and two, punishment is inevitable. there are two very important things: detection and the inevitability of punishment. i'm not going to let you do this. i must admit, i was disappointed with your presentation. you said very formally that this requires joint action, that we are in contact with the member states and that we have an exchange programme. what's the big deal? and you saw the atmosphere in this room: a lot of disappointment, delays, inefficiency, inefficiency. we want more from the commission and we are asking for it. show them we can do better.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! a few months ago, the public in europe was shocked by the accusations against the former french president for taking power in 2007 with funds obtained illegally from abroad. of course, the french justice system is verifying these allegations. but i have a specific question for the european commission and i would ask for a clear answer. if you don't answer, i'll take that as a no, as a simple "no". has the european commission taken any interest in these allegations? because this is the very essence of democracy, not some reprehensible and scandalous private benefit, but the confiscation of public power. it is also one of the architects of the union that exists today, one of the promoters of the treaty of lisbon.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. many monks have self-immolated in protest against the chinese occupation of tibet, piotr szczęsny has self-immolated in the center of warsaw in protest against the destruction of democracy by the current ruling team in poland. people who understand the desperate political situation in their country sometimes do desperate things to wake us up. oleg sentsov has been on hunger strike for a month in exile in a prison in far-away yakutia, and putin, who sent him there (and many other political prisoners who dared to criticize the regime in russia, the war in ukraine and the occupation of crimea), invites him to a sports festival today. let sport unite, but until sentsov and those he starves are free, i appeal to the representatives of the union governments to watch these championships during the summit with donald tusk in brussels, but not as a backdrop for putin's triumphant photos! freedom for the sentsov!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, four years after the illegal occupation of crimea, we raise our voice in the european parliament in solidarity with political prisoners of russia – civilians who are persecuted because of their loyalty and love for this state and their homeland. that includes oleg sentsov, but also dozens of others, not to mention the long-standing imprisonment of bekir dehermendzhi. we raise our voices, because in this case the geneva convention on the persecution of civilian populations during war time has been brutally violated. we condemn, constantly, the illegal annexation of integral ukrainian territories and we urge all politicians of the european union to raise this issue with russia while celebrating the world cup. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i did not say anything about us negotiating with russia. i talked about raising a loud voice in defence of prisoners and i know that numerous european leaders have meetings with vladimir putin. i hope that this topic is also raised. of course i share your view that ms mogherini should be very firm in putting this issue also in any encounters she may have with russia.
mr. chairman, please! i am an independent member of parliament and i speak as an independent member. i would like to thank my colleagues very warmly for their very clear voice in defence of mr sentsov and other political prisoners imprisoned in russia and for their voice against the systematic violation of human rights in crimea. it is very good that this voice is so clear and unambiguous and that so far we have not heard in this debate voices of disgrace, voices of support and support for putin, because this has often happened in the european parliament. the point is that we have to be clear and particularly consistent during the world cup. we cannot allow putin to use us, to take over football, and so our voice should be much more consistent and stronger than it has been so far, which also means renewing our appeal and taking a firm stand again at the july session in strasbourg.
member of the commission. – mr president, the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia has entailed a marked deterioration of the human rights situation on the peninsula and the jailing of people whose sole crime is to reject the illegal annexation. oleg sentsov is one of them. shortly after the illegal annexation, oleg sentsov was arrested in crimea. after a trial which lacked all guarantees of fairness, and in which he was judged as a russian citizen and denied the consular assistance of the ukranian authorities despite clearly be in ukrainian, mr sentsov was sentenced to 20 years in prison, accused of plotting terrorist acts for which the investigators could not find any evidence. as many members have highlighted, he has been serving this prison sentence in remote regions of the russian federation, currently in russia’s northernmost prison on the yamal peninsula, often in solitary confinement. exactly one month ago, he started a hunger strike to protest at the incarceration of all his fellow ukranian political prisoners in russia and demand their release. oleg sentsov’s case is no longer just a judicial or political one. it is now a matter of human compassion. his health is at risk of rapid deterioration. he should be immediately and unconditionally released on humanitarian grounds. the european union has closely followed the situation of mr sentsov and fellow ukranian prisoners. it has regularly urged russia to release all of them, both those who are in russia and those on the crimean peninsula. diplomats from the european union delegation and member states’ embassies in moscow have been present at court hearings related to these cases and are in contact with the lawyers. in addition to the case of mr sentsov, we have often raised other cases – such as those of olexandr kolchenko, stanislas klykh and mykola karpyuk – in bilateral meetings with russian representatives as well as in public statements, including in international forums such as the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation of europe. we are also following with concern the case of ukranian journalist roman sushchenko who was sentenced on 4 june in moscow to 12 years in prison for alleged acts of espionage in what appears to be another attack on the freedom of the press. our statement on 25 may, focusing on oleg sentsov, volodymyr balukh, server mustafayev and edem smailov, reiterated that the european union expects international human rights standards to be upheld on the crimean peninsula and that all illegally detained ukrainian citizens, in russia and on the crimean peninsula, should be released without delay. i would also like to recall president tusk’s call to the g7 leaders last week to show their support for and solidarity with oleg sentsov. this is a message that we will continue to repeat to the russian authorities. lastly, let me restate that the european union remains committed to implementing in full its policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol and we fully support the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of ukraine.
i'm not going to let you do this. as you can see, there seems to be a high degree of agreement between parliament and the commission. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the end of the debate at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in bahrain, in particular the situation of nabeel rajab (2018/2755 ((rsp)).
we're checking this, and i can show you the print i'm using. here's one minute.
excuse me, i will explain this two-minute case to clarify the situation. it was the following: tomáš should get one minute as author. you asked for one minute and, instead of adding it together to make two minutes, the note was one minute. it was a kind of misinformation. so please accept it as an explanation. the floor is yours on behalf of your political group.
the ppe and no political group will ever be harmed, but please note again that there was an urgent response from the secretariat, the circumstances of what happened were immediately explained. and my first reaction was, of course, to extend the time. so i'm asking you to accept that and consider this a closed case.
mr. chairman, please! despite your generally good intentions to defend human rights in bahrain, i think you're doing it wrong. first, yesterday you reprimanded poland for exerting political pressure on the courts, and now you're doing the same, only against a foreign state. you're trying to put political pressure on the trial in bahrain. the only thing that can be appealed is for the king to exercise the law of clemency, not to press the courts. secondly, it is a blatant inconsistency, because we tolerate in the uk that a man - tommy robinson - is unjustly detained, that the courts forbid the reporting of his trial, precisely in the name of not putting political pressure on him, but we do not react to this at home, and we inform other countries. and third, writing these statements doesn't help. as you rightly said, you've been writing for four years, so it's time to draw the lessons. that's not how you handle this. ask trump, he can handle this kind of thing. tell him to go in there and make a deal.
member of the commission. – mr president, as you will know, the european union has followed developments in bahrain for many years now. while in the past we have been encouraged by progress made, recently our worries have increased with the shrinking of political space in the country. as a result, we have sought to engage bahrain in a comprehensive dialogue on human rights. this is why we are working hard to establish an informal human rights dialogue, with the third meeting taking place on 15 may in manama. we have strongly supported the request of the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights to visit bahrain, and we hope that the authorities will soon give their agreement to permit the visit to go ahead. 2018 is a particularly important year because of the upcoming parliamentary elections this autumn, but unfortunately the adoption on 11 june of an amendment to the electoral law, which bans opposition members from running in elections, is not a step in the right direction. freedom of expression and association, the right to a fair trial and respect for human rights defenders are among the points which we stress in our contact with bahrain. the specific case of nabeel rajab has become symbolic of the difficulties being experienced by human rights defenders and by whoever expresses political dissent in bahrain. this is a case on which the high representative / vice—president has repeatedly spoken publicly, including very recently, on 6 june, in reaction to the news that the bahrain court of appeal had upheld a five-year prison sentence against mr rajab for comments posted on social media. we call on bahrain to grant mr rajab’s release, including on humanitarian grounds, given the reported deterioration of his health. the european union will continue to use all available means to further address the human rights situation in bahrain and hopes that bahrain will find again the path of dialogue and reconciliation, which it had started to follow so well at the end of 2011 in line with the recommendations of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry. the european union remains supportive of bahrain’s long—term stability and is convinced that it can only be sustained if peaceful political grievances can be expressed freely. we have consistently encouraged all parties to move forward with democratic reforms in a peaceful and constructive manner. finally, regarding ms gill’s question, i would like to say that targeted measures are an essential tool of the european union’s common foreign and security policy and are used by the european union as part of an integrated and comprehensive policy approach involving political dialogue, complementary efforts and the use of other instruments at its disposal. the european union continues to have dialogue with the bahraini authorities in a frank manner, including on human rights. the european union will continue to closely follow the human rights situation on the ground, and on that basis, it will decide on possible measures.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the end of the debate at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on the situation of rohingya refugees, in particular the plight of children (2018/2756 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the rohingya are one of the most persecuted minorities in the world. the violence perpetrated by the burmese army is a classic example of ethnic cleansing: murders, burning of villages, mass rapes. although rohingya have lived in burma for generations, they are considered as outsiders, denied citizenship, healthcare and education. for their health, they mostly flee to bangladesh. according to unicef, 693,000 people fled to the country between august 2017 and april this year, more than half of them children. and in 2018, 48,000 women and girls in refugee camps will give birth, mostly to children conceived as a result of rape by the burmese army. because of limited access to medical care, many of them die soon after birth. those children who survive will be exposed to malnutrition, violence, sexual abuse, or human trafficking. this nightmare must be ended and all incitement to hatred must be condemned unequivocally. humanitarian aid is needed and i am appealing for it.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the crisis affecting the rohingya people is an extreme situation. every day new refugees arrive, and the number of women and children is increasing. overcrowded refugee camps lack sufficient food, water, and sanitation, and the situation is difficult to remedy. all this is due to myanmar's hostility towards the local community, which has been shown to be ethnically pure, and which is described as "manual" by the united nations high commissioner for human rights. the european union should always intervene to defend the fundamental human rights that are clearly violated in the case of the rohingya people. this calls for an immediate and stronger international response and an end to the persecution of these people as soon as possible. i believe that putting diplomatic and even economic pressure on the myanmar authorities can start the process of safe return of the rohingya people.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by stressing that the european union remains fully mobilised, politically and through extensive humanitarian and development assistance, to help to address the rohingya refugee crisis. the european union response to this crisis has consisted of five main components. first, immediate and unconditional humanitarian assistance to all displaced persons. second, condemnation of all forms of violence. third, continuous constructive engagement with the civilian government of myanmar on the basis of an ambitious development agenda, including with a view to addressing the root causes of conflict in accordance with the annan report. fourth, the promotion of conditions allowing the eventual voluntary and dignified return of displaced persons to their homes in rakhine state in safety. and fifth, exploring assistance which goes beyond short-term aid. in all of this, due account has been taken of the relevant resolutions adopted by the european parliament on the rohingya crisis. this applies firstly in respect of action on the political front. as you know, the european union has co-sponsored un human rights council resolutions to promote accountability and to invite myanmar to cooperate with a un fact-finding mission. we regret that myanmar is not cooperating with this fact-finding mission. there is also continuing cooperation with the un special rapporteur ms lee. in april 2018, in the light of the disproportionate use of force by the myanmar army, the european union adopted a strengthened arms embargo and put in place a framework for targeted restricted measures against myanmar military officers. this being said, let me attend to the major issues of today’s debate: the situation of the rohingya refugees and, in particular, the plight of children. as regards humanitarian and development aid, the european union co-hosted – and pledged the highest contribution among all the donors at – the united nations pledging conference on 23 october 2017. our dialogue with bangladesh authorities and the united nations is constant in an effort to address the tremendous challenges faced by bangladesh in welcoming the refugees generously. the monsoon season, which has just started, brings additional challenges and we are increasing our humanitarian aid in bangladesh and continuing to provide aid in rakhine state, but lack of access remains a key problem. given the fact that the refugees’ return process will be difficult and long, and that the conditions for voluntary and safe return to the rakhine state are not yet in place, the european union and the international donor community must be prepared to work further on their humanitarian and development nexus, both for the refugees and for the 11 host communities in bangladesh. our humanitarian aid and development system does not specifically focus on children but, given the very high number of children and women in the camps, our aid actually does focus on these vulnerable groups of the refugee population. let me highlight a couple of specific objectives that we are currently trying to achieve in cooperation with the bangladesh government and relevant stakeholders in cox’s bazar. the registration of newborn rohingya babies should be pursued, as per the memorandum of understanding signed between bangladesh and the unchr. and we are focusing on protection issues, including a security presence and security controls in the camps by law-enforcement authorities at all times. we are seeking authorisation to provide secondary education; we are looking into possibilities to support severely reliant families through local opportunities in order to avoid relations based on vulnerability; and we are pursuing preparedness initiatives in the context of the current monsoon and cyclone season, with a view to relocating the most vulnerable population to safer areas. the european union will continue to provide support to the rohingya people in bangladesh in order to alleviate this major refugee crisis and to contribute to stabilisation in the region.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the end of the debate at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
madam president! i voted against it. it's just another unnecessary regulation. there is no reason for the state to interfere in the cultural sphere. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has the power to decide on the future of football. really, what more do you need? so maybe we should fund chariot racing, this forgotten sport that's been going downhill in our country for a while, and maybe for some people, striptease is a form of culture, maybe we should fund strip bars. the right to culture means the right to spend one's money as one wishes, on the form of culture one sees fit. to have state-commissioned artists produce some kind of trash just to please the officials is a perversion of culture, it is to make artists dependent on state funding and destroy creativity. because if the officials were good cultural experts, they would be doing culture creation, not paper translations. i therefore protest against the union's unnecessary interference in other areas of life.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm sorry the commissioner's not here. this is an important debate, israel is our key partner, it's the leader when it comes to innovation in the world, according to bloomberg it's number one, and the commissioner should be here. i understand the traffic, but it's predictable in strasbourg. let's leave the commissioner. i have the impression (and i have been in the european parliament for 14 years) that there is a certain trend here among certain circles. this fashion is to criticize israel, often without any factual basis. i think we need to have a dialogue with israel. you can have different opinions and you have to have different opinions sometimes but let's keep some objectivity. we are talking about certain regulations that are beneficial to the european union and also to the european innovation and technology area. that's a benefit. as far as human rights are concerned, i will be very frank: i think that israel had the same policy a dozen years ago as it has today, and it was not criticized as much then, including here in the european parliament, and now it is often criticized very sharply. has anything changed in the european union in that time? i think so, but i have the impression that it is not israel that has changed, but the european union that has changed in terms of its attitude towards israel. and i don't know if that's a change for the better. i don't think you are. we're talking about human rights in israel here, and good. of course, we can talk about anything. but i would like to point out that the police in israel are under judicial control, it's not a state within a state. it's worth talking about, it's worth knowing about, rather than presenting some - i think - one-sided narrative or vision of the situation. in closing, i would like to appeal to all of us to maintain moderation and common sense in order to continue this relationship. it is good for us, for the eu. and this is very important. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i remember the meeting of the israeli prime minister it was in the knesset in december 2016 with a delegation of colleagues from the european parliament. the same question was asked about anti-semitism in europe, and prime minister netanyahu said that he sees anti-semitism mainly, indeed, but in western europe, not in our region. and i'll be honest here: i have a personal connection because my grandmother was the person who saved jews during world war ii, and i'll always remember her in this discussion.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also join in congratulating the rapporteur. you have defended the european parliament's positions very courageously and persistently in these negotiations, and indeed we have succeeded in defending our position in the trilateral talks, many of its key aspects, which makes this fund beneficial for all member states by creating new forms and perspectives of cooperation in the defence sector. it was important to ecr group that this new fund was used to increase the competitiveness of our companies across the union. at the same time, he wanted to create new forms of cooperation, rather than simply duplicating existing activities. the precondition of cooperation between at least three different companies from three member states will help to achieve this objective and i consider this a great achievement colleagues have already mentioned this. secondly, it is important that we also help small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-cap companies to produce the end product that is essential for our economic growth. and that's why we approve all these bonuses for smes and mid-cap companies. that's also what this bill is about. moreover, as my predecessor has pointed out, a balance has been struck between the need to open the programme to non-european companies from third countries and the realistic requirements of the programme.
madam president, the european defence industrial development programme compromise is reasonable and worth supporting. i will make two remarks though. firstly, ms bieńkowska stressed security and ms grossetête defence, and this area is still predominantly intergovernmental. therefore, the role of parliament’s subcommittee on security and defence (sede) in drawing up this kind of report should be enhanced in future. secondly, if we are talking about security and defence and threats to both, we need to mention the role of nato and to avoid speaking so much about strategic autonomy. the role of the usa and the future of the uk are still extremely important in providing our security. there has been no withdrawal by the usa, even under the trump administration. on the contrary, there has been an increase in funding for european security.
madam president! i wanted to express my full support for the defence industrial development programme in europe and congratulate the european commission - commissioner bieńkowska personally - for coming forward with this initiative. i would also like to thank mrs françoise grossetête for her excellent report. i see three main benefits to this program. first of all, the safety. the european union is an economic powerhouse, but it has remained a dwarf in terms of defence, military and politics. i see this programme as a first step towards creating a genuine common defence policy. and that's very important in today's unpredictable world. secondly, the economic benefits, which we have already discussed. the defence industry is a source of innovation and will certainly be a driving force for the development of other areas of production. finally, thirdly, it is a field which has not been covered by european integration so far. this will be a factor in further linkages between the countries. i am convinced that if all countries are included in this programme - and i am calling for this - it will certainly be an important direction for the development of european integration.
madam president! we've come a long way, almost a revolution in such a short time. i remember the beginning of this parliament's term and the disregard for both security and defence. today, this subject has been taken up in mrs grossetête's report, and i must say that i am very pleased. i'm more concerned, of course, about the source of our sudden activity, our great interest and our complete agreement. these were, i remind you, primarily terrorist attacks. but it is very good that security and defence are finally at the forefront of the european parliament's concerns. i would like to draw attention to just one disturbing element which is of particular interest to me. this programme was complemented by two other programmes: galileo and copernicus. today, both of these programmes need financial support. this means that the budget for this new - and i repeat, sensible - programme has unfortunately been taken up by problems in the galileo and copernicus programmes. that's why i'm calling for their reinforcement.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank all of the honourable members for their remarks and for their comments. i am quite sure that with tomorrow’s vote this house will send a very clear and strong signal and a clear message for eu defence and for the security of eu citizens. let me just underline two points. the first was one of the most deliberated points during the negotiations. there is a very restrictive participation of third countries in the programme. this was discussed at great length and i think again that on this point too, we have a very balanced and good agreement taking into account the specificity of the defence sector. the second point: there is no contradiction between what we are doing for european union defence, and nato. we are working in very good cooperation, and let me repeat and echo what i have said many times before: a stronger eu in defence is ultimately a stronger nato. thank you very much for your hard work and with the adoption of the programme, we are really at the turning point to delivering a credible defence union. your work was wonderful; you are very devoted and engaged with the programme. thank you very much for this. declarations from the commission(in writing) declaration from the commission with support of the european parliament concerning the implementation of the programme in order to implement the european defence industrial development programme efficiently and ensure full consistency with other union initiatives, the commission intends to implement the programme under direct management in accordance with article 62(1)(a) of the financial regulation. declaration from the commission concerning the preparation and adoption of the edidp work programme in accordance with article 188 of regulation n°1268/2012, the commission is responsible for the preparation of the work programme. in this context, the commission notes that the list of priorities identified in the regulation establishing the european defence industrial development programme should not be exhaustive and therefore, does not believe that the present case should constitute a precedent as to the margins of implementing powers granted to the commission. declaration from the commission on the selection of experts for the evaluation of proposals under the programme in the context of the award procedure the commission will ensure that the experts selected in the database of independent experts referred to in article xx have the necessary skills, experience and knowledge to duly perform their tasks. the commission may use any relevant source including any information member states may possess in this regard to this effect while respecting fully to the financial regulation. the commission will ensure that member states’ feedback with regard to the credentials of the experts in the database of independent experts will be taken into account to the greatest possible extent.
in writing. i am one of those who believe that europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security. the participation of 25 of the 28 eu countries in nato is of course important, but the military and industrial capabilities of the eu will become increasingly important. because scientific and industrial capabilities are the ultimate determinants of the quality of the military's technical capabilities. it is therefore of concern that defence research and industry in europe is facing a number of challenges, mainly the inefficiency of dispersed research and deployment and the tightness of defence funding. it is worth recalling that europe as a whole spends only 1.34% of gdp on defence. the creation of a european defence fund and the earmarking of specific appropriations for improving security and defence in the draft eu budget for the first time, which should amount to eur 32 billion in the next budgetary perspective, is therefore a good idea. if these plans are implemented, we should see a breakthrough in the level of military technology in europe after 2021.
mr. chairman, please! at the last european parliament, my report on barriers to access to culture was adopted. i would like to stress that it would not have been possible to adopt this report, or even to write it, if it had not been for the eurostat and eurobarometer surveys. it was thanks to statistics that it was finally possible to build a common denominator for a certain knowledge - not only about certain attitudes, certain behaviours, certain participation in culture, but also about us simply - about europeans. i want to make it clear that knowledge is a very important tool, and i have only one question on this occasion: does the introduction of the gdpr, all these elements, the rules, the data protection, make it difficult to collect data, the ones that this report considered particularly important?
mr. chairman, please! there are some 370 million indigenous peoples in 90 countries. these communities, which are extremely diverse and speak many different languages, are present in all geographical regions and represent some 5 000 different cultures. unfortunately, these groups also represent up to 15% of the human population living in poverty, are more likely to suffer from hunger and malnutrition, and have very limited access to basic goods, services and economic resources. the european consensus on development adopted last year contains an important provision on promoting the rights of the most vulnerable groups, including indigenous peoples. therefore, action to promote the rights of these groups should be better integrated into the development policy of the european union, especially in the context of the achievement of the sustainable development goals. all development policy actors, including the european union and the member states, must strive to adopt all necessary measures to fully recognise the protection and promotion of the indigenous rights of inhabitants, including their access to land, territories and resources. it is also the union's responsibility to ensure that all development, investment and trade policies respect human and indigenous rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, charles goerens, for his excellent report. protecting girls is, first and foremost, about upholding european values and respect for human rights. it is also about enforcing european law and respecting the charter of fundamental rights and international human rights law. combating child marriage requires a comprehensive strategy, and the european union has already stepped up its external work and the recommendations included in the report are of vital importance to us and will help us in achieving even more. ending child marriage has been identified as a priority for the european union action plan on human rights and democracy. we have translated this priority through the eu gender action plan (gap ii) with a strong emphasis on the empowerment of girls. the revised european union guidelines for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child highlight the fact that raising awareness and promoting gender equality is a priority for european engagement with partner countries. the human rights and democracy country strategies for the 2016—2020 period include children’s rights as one of the main priorities, some of them focused on combating child marriage. the report also mentions children on the move as particularly vulnerable. the communication on the protection of children in migration, adopted in april 2017, proposes actions to protect these children, including girls who are at risk of forced marriage. i want to reassure you that early and forced marriage is being regularly raised in political and human rights dialogues with the eu’s partner countries and we will continue to do so, as requested in the report. the report also calls for the union to work together with the relevant un agencies – and the rapporteur also requested this here – on this subject. this cooperation is already ongoing and will continue. it has to continue. for instance, the european union has contributed eur 6 million to the unfpa—unicef global programme to accelerate action to end child marriage. the programme targets communities from a group of 12 countries and focuses on education, access to health care, strengthening enforcement mechanisms, girls’ empowerment and changing social norms. in september 2017, the european union and the united nations launched a historic initiative, branded the ‘spotlight initiative’, to end violence against women and girls with an investment of eur 500 million. ending early and forced marriage is as much about adopting protective legislation as about enhancing access to education. the report refers many times to the lack of education, not only as a root cause, but also as a consequence of early marriage. we share this view. the communication on education and emergencies and protracted crises, adopted in may 2018, reiterates the protective role of education, recognising that children who are not in school are exposed to forced marriage and early pregnancy, among many other risks. the union will markedly focus its education in emergency actions to bring children back into school, those forcibly displaced or those belonging to vulnerable and disadvantaged groups and to quality education. we are also doing our homework inside the union. we are combating early and forced marriage through promoting sustainable social change, through our rights, equality and citizenship programme. the union has co—financed the setting up of a european network on guardianship for unaccompanied children. this network will allow developing guardianship capacity as well as the prevention of, and responses to, early and forced marriage. in october last year, we had a girls summit in brussels, which brought together many young girls from around the world. the aim was to put the spotlight on what needs to be done to ensure their rights are respected, protected and of course enforced. i would like to conclude by sharing some key messages from this summit that i find very valid in the context of today’s debate. firstly, child marriage is not only a violation of girls’ rights, but also a form of violence and discrimination against women and girls and, as such, is absolutely unacceptable. secondly, to end this practice it is of the utmost importance that girls and women have a voice at all levels of society. we therefore very much share the views expressed in the report that the active participation of girls in society is an active way of preventing child marriage. thirdly, as the report says, it is urgent to inform and educate men and boys. men and boys must take full responsibility to challenge discriminatory social norms and gender stereotypes and foster positive norms of gender equality, non—violence and respect. finally, education is the main channel through which sustainable progress in ending child marriage will be achieved. congratulations again to the rapporteur.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, forced marriages leave an impact on girls and boys, and go against the fundamental rights and the dignity of children. we must be clear in our words: early and forced marriages are a form of violence. we must remember that these kinds of marriage lead to serious consequences, including limiting opportunities to study for those concerned, as education is often ceased abruptly, and, in some cases, to high mortality rates among mothers. we need to ensure that forced marriages are not conducted on european territory among migrants or person of non-european citizenship. if we want to strengthen the fight against these forms of marriage, we need to invest in education and empowerment, especially for women and girls, and provide support to victims. boys and men in third countries need to be given more information and education in order to develop support for measures that respect human rights, including those of children and women. we need the eu, as an institution which has a global role on human rights, to also take a central role in the fight against early and forced marriages. the eu and its member states must cooperate with the competent authorities, including those in third countries, and provide training and technical assistance so as to achieve legislation against this practice and ensure it is enforced.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, we talk about the issue of extramarital marriage in the context of the european union's external policy, and yet even in this room we hear that it is a problem that exists in europe - not in countries that do not accept the istanbul gender convention, but in countries that have adopted it. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the demands that are important, but the decisive action. the international convention on the rights of the family, which we are proposing in poland, assumes the invalidity of any forced marriage, wherever it may be concluded. one more thing about this particular text - there is not a single mention of islam in this text, but the united states is attacked three times. - for what? - for what? for his policy of defending the most vulnerable by refusing to fund international abortion organisations. let's think about the moral foundations on which our politics are built, because the lack of them is the main source of the problems we face.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. when i hear voices saying that the european union should be the leader in implementing the paris agreement, i am surprised, because in the envi committee and here in the european parliament you very often raise in your speeches that the paris agreement is not ambitious enough, that parliament should be even more ambitious. i remind you that the paris agreement was reached because it did not include decarbonisation in its final form, but instead included the importance of forests in absorbing global co2 emissions. and the paris agreement was undoubtedly a success. it would be good if the european parliament focused on implementing the text of the paris agreement rather than being a lone long-distance runner who is de facto running against the wall. it is not clear why you are proposing to introduce the concept of climate refugees. the introduction of such regulations will only exacerbate the migration crisis. i therefore urge you to exercise caution.
madam president! the resolution is a display of pride the belief that all the minds have been brought together on a matter that scientists are arguing about, because what the red-green ideologues here stubbornly refuse to accept is that the matter is controversial. many scientists question the extent and causes of climate change, much less the ability to prevent it. worse, parliament is taking on the climate maneuvering with the means that have failed it in all other areas, namely, subsidies, regulations, arbitrary choices of what it thinks is the best solution, making predictions 30 years ahead of what will happen in 2050, lecturing, printing its documents on paper. this is the exact opposite of the way you should go. we need to charge people fairly for the cost of using the environment and see what technology will allow them to avoid paying for it. a spectacular example of how not to fight climate is the idea of the climate refugee, which will make people eager to run for office and perhaps even destroy their environment just to get caught.
in writing. the effects of climate change are having an increasingly serious impact on many aspects of the natural environment and, consequently, on human life. the european union is a major player in climate action and plays a leading role in international climate change negotiations. it uses 'climate diplomacy' to build strategic alliances to fight climate change together. this is a key element of preventive action and sustainable development on climate-related issues. 'climate diplomacy' is a form of targeted foreign policy aimed at engaging third country governments and non-governmental actors around the world to promote the fight against climate change. its main strategic objectives are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to combat poor environmental policy. supporting developing countries in their search for sustainable and environmentally friendly development pathways is particularly important. in february, the eu foreign affairs council concluded that climate security is a very important issue and stressed that climate change has a significant impact on international stability and security. the council calls for effective response to climate security threats in different policy areas and stresses the importance of taking action immediately after receiving specific analyses of climate risks.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like thank all the honourable members who have participated in this very interesting debate for their contributions. in these turbulent times the european union and the united nations are indispensable partners. the european union-united nation partnership is both stronger and more important than ever, because today is the time to both defend our multilateral achievements, as well as to to build bridges with others to promote the multilateral rules-based order. together, the european union and the united nations will continue to engage as a positive force for change. a new overarching european union-un strategic partnership to step up cooperation and catalyse new action is needed for the future. on the issue of migration, which has been raised by some honourable members, over the past years the european union has built a comprehensive approach to addressing migration and forced displacement. the european union will continue its strong engagement in both processes, shaping the content and placing migration and refugee response firmly on the united nations agenda. the european union will proactively engage to achieve robust, balanced and inclusive global compacts, and we are keen to work hand in hand with all partners towards a successful outcome. i would like to close by reiterating my gratitude to the rapporteur mr freund for his excellent report.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i have the honour to present, on behalf of myself and the afco committee, a report on the position of cities in the functioning of the european union. i would like to thank all those who worked on this report. first of all, to the co-rapporteurs for their inventiveness, ideas, proposals, most of which were in the recommendation presented to the european parliament in plenary. i would like to thank very warmly mr olbricht, representing the regi committee, for his autonomous contribution to this report. the report is a response to a new phenomenon, and good policy should respond to new phenomena. this new phenomenon is the accumulation in cities of a whole range of very important problems affecting the eu's policy areas. these are issues of our safety, the quality of public services, environmental protection, and in many cities, also immigration and social exclusion. hence the conviction that cities should have a greater role in the functioning of the european union than they have so far. the report is based on the conviction that cities, which are increasingly the focus of european problems, play too small a role in designing, implementing and debating the shape of eu policies. the report presents innovations in the treaty framework: a stronger position of cities in the committee of the regions, a greater role for the associations of cities eurocities and the councils of the communities and regions of europe in the process of consultation and decision-making, and finally the strengthening of the platforms that have been set up at the initiative of the european commission. the report also recommends that the european council should liaise more closely with local authorities. what is characteristic of the report is a dynamic, full-value understanding of the city. a city is not just a political entity, an administrative structure under political control. a european city is more than that. it's a social hub, it's a place where media, ngos, all work. in fact, no continent in the world has a city network of this quality. the report therefore proposes that, on the initiative of the european parliament and the committee of the regions, open european discussion forums be set up around town councils that want to do this work, and that they be a place for discussing and designing eu policies. and finally, two objections. it's not the idea of strengthening cities against anyone else. this is the idea of multi-level governance and synergy between the activities of the states, cities, local and regional structures and the european union itself. it's not the idea of big city selfishness. the report covers cities and urban areas, including those outside metropolitan areas. they too can bear the burden and responsibility for europe's development to a greater extent than ever before. that is the title of the explanation of the main ideas and contents of this report. i am confident that, as in the afco committee, it will be endorsed by the majority of political forces in the european parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank ms bergeron for her work on the challenges raised by the advent of three-dimensional printing in the field of intellectual property rights and civil liability. parliament’s report comes at an important time as this enabling technology has the potential to boost innovation in our industry and to have an impact on our everyday life. the commission is looking closely into this technology. we originally adopted a third data package and a communication on artificial intelligence in which we set out a comprehensive approach to artificial intelligence. liability and intellectual property are part of this discussion. honourable members, as pointed out in ms bergeron’s report, the opportunities that 3d printing offers have increased in various areas of our economy, for both business and consumers. by allowing the timely manufacturing of customised objects, not intended for mass production, 3d printing has the potential to make production more flexible and to boost industrial development, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. to tap this potential we need a coherent legal framework that provides legal certainty for both consumers and businesses in the european union. what do we currently have? the final result of the 3d printing process is a product, and in the european union we have strict rules to ensure that products placed on the market are safe. we ensure safety whilst encouraging innovation through technology-neutral product rules – a major advantage in world trade. however, not all products are always safe and some can cause damage. that is why we have the product liability directive in place. it ensures that producers and company suppliers are jointly and severally liable if products are defective. the directive covers all products from raw materials to highly complex and automated machinery, including the output of 3d printing. we originally evaluated the directive and did not come across any specific problems related to 3d printing, even though some questions remain regarding emerging digital technologies. products today can be altered and changed after they are placed on the market. the production process may involve more and different actors than was the case in 1985 when the directive was adopted. in addition, there is no straightforward distinction between traditional products and new products. we should bear this in mind when looking at damage caused by products. we need simple liability rules that allow consumers to claim compensation for damage caused by defective products. to define how best to address this question, the commission set up an expert group to discuss liability in relation to new technologies. we will issue guidance on the product liability directive in mid-2019. at the same time, we will issue a report on the broader implications for, and potential gaps in, the liability and safety frameworks in respect of artificial intelligence, the internet of things, and robotics. we see intellectual property as a key element of our industrial policy strategy. efficient, well-designed, and balanced intellectual property systems are key in promoting investment, innovation and growth. in the european union we have top-quality common rules on it protection, including unitary titles for trademarks and designs, which also allow citizens to defend these rights in practice. we have just lately successfully completed trademark reform at union level. on 29 november 2017, we adopted the ip package for a balanced ip system responding to today’s societal challenges. we have provided guidance on implementing the directive on the performance of intellectual property rights. we have also announced our actions to step up the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, and we are now in the process of reviewing some of the copyright rules in order to make our digital single market a reality. we expect that our copyright package will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the european union’s cultural and creative industries in the digital environment. it will also deliver more in terms of access to content by users and opportunities for creators, and will enhance the potential for all online operators. the question we need to ask ourselves is whether the robust framework i have just described is fit for purpose. the issue is actually a cross-cutting one with impacts not only on copyright protection but also on design rules, trademark and patent laws, as well as trade secrets. it is really the whole intellectual property spectrum which needs to be addressed. as for industrial applications which would not stifle innovation, aerospace is one such sector which sees a promising future in the application of 3d printing technology that will benefit our society. we need to anticipate new business models and assess the impacts of any changes in the ip framework. in conclusion, emerging digital technologies provide us with opportunities to see whether what we are doing is still fit for purpose. the european union needs a liability and intellectual property rights framework that encourages innovation but also protects and fosters the uptake of emerging digital technologies. rules on liability and intellectual property rights play an important role in creating this environment. importantly, the european parliament has identified similar issues related to technological progress. i look forward to working with you on finding the best way forward.
in writing. the rapid development of 3d printing has made it possible to produce increasingly sophisticated objects using 3d printers. there are great hopes for the medical sector, where this type of technology could be used to make prosthetics, dental implants, even organs. the same is true in the aerospace industry, where the development of lighter components will reduce costs through lower fuel consumption. the increasing availability of 3d printers also provides the ability to print from the comfort of your own home, which poses challenges to intellectual property law. the representation of a three-dimensional object in the digital world can be considered an adaptation or another type of development, because the computer graphics transfers the three-dimensional object to another artistic technique - to a cad file. in this context, the graphic designer should undoubtedly have the consent of the creator of the original which he or she is reproducing. his work on the cad file will also be copyrighted. and the artist will also be the operator, who will be using a 3d printer to create a completely new piece of art. this is particularly true of 3d printers in the form of pens, which act like a brush, allowing anyone to create their own little works of art. in conclusion, in order to avoid infringements of intellectual property, the european union should introduce new legal standards or adapt existing regulations to the new 3d technology.
mr. chairman, please! the last european council on migration formally announced a compromise, but just days after it, the summit's decisions on the reception of refugees are in doubt. it is reported that the agreement to place the refugee centers outside the european union has been rejected by successive countries. after the summit, chancellor merkel said that 14 eu countries had agreed to relocate refugees to their territories three of the countries she mentioned had already denied this. tomorrow, european council president donald tusk is scheduled to speak, but he may not be present during the bilateral talks between german chancellor angela merkel and the heads of government of these countries. as meps, we have the right to explain what the outcome of the summit really was whether an agreement was actually reached, or whether european public opinion is being deceived in order to save the government coalition in germany.
mr. chairman, please! we're voting this week to extend the life of a monster that should never have been born, and the sooner he dies, the better. we shouldn't let him run off and lay eggs. i'm talking about the directive on copyright in the digital single market. we've all been inundated with letters from voters who don't want to be buried by lawmakers on the internet. and i think you're in no doubt that the voters don't want that. you cannot be a democrat and openly oppose the sovereign and deceive him, to win his support, not to mention such plans, and now pass laws in his name that he definitely does not want. you're acting against the voters in the interests of a narrow lobby that is already wealthy and has invented the concept of intellectual property for its own self-indulgence. intellectual property is not property, just like social justice is not justice, and a guinea pig is not a pig.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen of the house! the irish referendum paved the way for the repeal of the right to defend the lives of the most vulnerable in the country's legislation, but unfortunately the european union was not neutral in this decision. commissioner vestager has given official support to the pro-abortion side and, moreover, despite an appeal to the european commission to expressly distance itself from this act by commissioner vestager, who has contradicted the official declarations repeatedly made that abortion is not a matter of european union policy, the actions of the commissioner have not met with any disapproval. ladies and gentlemen of the house! we will not achieve real solidarity in the european union if the principle that the european union respects the laws of the countries that protect life is not officially confirmed and implemented.
madam president, mr. chancellor, i have to go. i would like to thank the austrian presidency very warmly for its motto: 'a europe that protects'. it's very expressive, but it's also very contained. i think that your declaration, which accompanies the presentation and which says that you want to continue the work undertaken by the bulgarian presidency, can be approved. first of all, i thank you for focusing on the important task for the union - important first of all for the citizens - which is security, including the security of the external borders, including the regulation of illegal immigration. without this, it is impossible to get approval for other solutions, for example, for the revision of the dublin process. the european way of life, you say, combined with the competitiveness of the european economy, is important for all citizens of the member states of the european union. i fully agree with this. without the reconstruction of, for example, european industry, without its significant contribution to the creation of gross domestic product, it will be difficult to talk about accepting the changes that affect the european economy, including its modernization and modernity. i also think it is important that the approach to the challenges that the presidency is to take is based on the principle of subsidiarity. to make progress, we have to resolve the issues that connect us, the issues that matter most, and ignore the issues that divide us, the issues that are often of lesser importance. i would also like to thank you for maintaining the priority of the future of the western balkans. without this problem being solved, it will be difficult to talk about stability in europe itself, and at the same time it is our moral duty to focus on a special commitment to europe's neighbours, including those in southern europe. at the same time, it is right that we focus on the final brexit deal, which is to result in an agreement between the european union and the united kingdom leaving. i think that is what all parties in the european union need.
in writing. a europe that protects, ensures prosperity, security are the beautiful goals of the austrian presidency. but let's remember that security is not just border security, it should be understood very broadly, because we have different forms of security, like food security, which is the basis of our existence. it is provided by the common agricultural policy. the austrian presidency is due to discuss cap reform. in europe, the share of young farmers is declining. the reason for this is the low level of income earned in agriculture, which is estimated at 50% of the average income of other occupational groups. in addition, farmers are burdened by greening requirements, which not only impose an administrative burden but also reduce their competitiveness on the world market. the question is whether the cap budget can be reduced in such a situation and what the consequences of this might be. it is often said that europe needs a bigger budget. what does chancellor kurz say as president of the presidency? do you not think it is time to lift the russian embargo in response to the sanctions imposed by the european union on russia for its aggression against ukraine? these sanctions are not burdensome or effective, and as you know, the main victims of the embargo are the farmers in the eu. finally, as you know, the impact of external factors on the situation of agriculture and farmers in europe is increasing as a result of globalisation and the functioning of the world market.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from australia, led by the australian governor-general, peter cosgrove, and minister john mcveigh, has taken their seats in the tribune of honour. i understand that you have had several fruitful meetings, including with the members of the committee on international trade, and that you will continue your programme today, in particular with the members of the delegation for relations with australia and new zealand. relations between the european union and australia are a key priority in our international relations agenda and the european parliament strongly supports enhanced cooperation with australia. it is therefore my great pleasure to welcome you warmly to parliament and to wish you all the best for the rest of your stay. i welcome you all!
the legal affairs committee has reviewed the mandates of ms karine gloanec maurin and ms mirja vehkaperä and has proposed that their mandates be declared null and void with effect from 11 and 12 june 2018, respectively. are there any comments? i can't see. these mandates are therefore important.
this is not an agenda item, so i suggest we adjourn.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. i don't know if there's any point in this whole "i'm sorry" thing. perhaps we should wait a moment so that the members can leave the chamber, because we cannot hear each other. (the president asked the members to leave the chamber) i have been mayor of a big city for eleven years and i know how social capital is built, economic capital, and also the one that is important for the future of europe. i am pleased with this report for two reasons: firstly, because it acknowledges this, and secondly, because it indicates or proposes that in the large cities which are important for the development of europe, european issues should be represented not only by specific activities in these cities, but also by specific people who, in the councils of the cities, are responsible for the development of the european union. (end of speech outside the microphone)
mr. chairman, please! i voted today in favour of the report on the role of cities in the institutional framework of the european union because i believe that the resolution is a great opportunity to highlight the union's programmes and policies for urban agglomerations. it is a good time to reflect on how to make the citizens of cities more aware of eu programmes. do you know how many parisians, berliners, warsawers and opoleans we reached with information about initiatives such as urban, the european capital of innovation, the covenant of mayors or the concept of 'smart cities and communities'? i am fortunate that one of the cities i represent here in parliament - wrocław - has a representation of the european parliament and the european commission. this certainly makes it easier to reach a wider audience with reliable information about the work of the eu institutions and to refute fake news. however, many citizens remain beyond the reach of this information. this is evident from the turnout in the european elections. i have met too many people who are surprised by the competences and the scope of the tasks of meps. we should seriously consider how to support the activities of european missions, perhaps by thinking about mobile offices, so that more cities have closer contact with the institutions. the city representatives in the wroclaw office proposed the creation of appropriate online applications, and this is certainly an initiative worthy of attention. i would like to congratulate mr olbricht on the report and the very interesting opinion of the regi committee.
mr. chairman, please! i can already tell you that it's a little satisfying. you could say we're keeping up with technology, with the changes in civilization. 3d printing is new, maybe not as much as it was in the last few weeks, but the fact that we've looked at this report and that the juri committee was prepared for this new thing, it's kind of an advance. i will only mention one element: to anticipate the problems associated with intellectual property infringement, with 3d printing, of course, the committee must be prepared to adopt new legislation and adapt the existing legislation to the specific, i stress, specific cases of printing. they were exchanged in the gym. secondly, the decisions of the european union intellectual property office and the relevant case law of the courts of the european union and the member states must be taken into account in this process, because it already exists. if we do, we will have some satisfaction in solving the problems of rapidly changing technologies.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to one particularly important point. well, this program at the very beginning, in the pilot period, has half a billion euros. it is good that at the same time, it is in this period that a minimum threshold of three countries and three companies - three companies from three countries - has been set, so that this project can be implemented and financed from this very pool. but i do want to point out one important thing: this program has a future. it has already been defined in this report. we're going to talk about the next perspective, and in this perspective, which is seven years old, the value of the whole program is going to be as much as five billion euros. i am drawing attention to this because the conditions we have discussed in this report should be even more precise in the future, even more valuable from the point of view of the legal framework, but i would stress that europe is finally taking care of security and defence, allocating strictly defined amounts to this end.
mr. chairman, please! we had the dubious pleasure of hearing criticism of this program here a moment ago. i would like to remind you that the threat of armed conflict, indeed war, is growing worldwide. in europe too. hybrid activities, including those in cyberspace, are becoming more common. on top of all this, europe, and indeed the member states of the european union, are losing their defence capability. if you add to that the fact that we can count less and less on our former allies - i'm not just thinking of turkey, but above all the united states - how can you criticize this program? how can anyone criticize the idea of strengthening the european union so that it can defend itself in the event of a future conflict? this program is worthy of support.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this resolution because i believe that the militarization of an organisation dominated by the extreme left, so ideologically extreme and a tool of leftist propaganda and, by the way, a tool of german hegemony in europe, is simply dangerous. i support our countries working together within nato because it's not ideologized. nato does not instruct its member countries to abolish the death penalty or to introduce any laws for homosexuals, nor does it admonish them on gender equality, abortion, etc. i support cooperation within nato because the united states is the leader, not germany: a country that is trying to sabotage poland, to eliminate its independence and to circumvent the restrictions imposed after the second world war on its militarization and the militarization of germany. and knowing life, the division will be such that to avoid duplication, the germans will buy tanks and we will buy shovels. that's how we're gonna get out of this partnership.
mr. chairman, please! we talk about indigenous people, we use that term. i feel a little uncomfortable because it's like we're talking about people of another category or second category, and they're just full citizens of the countries in which they live, and as such they should be subject to all the laws, including the principles, including the human rights, of the countries in question. if we, as the european union, maintain diplomatic, economic and political relations with these countries, then we obviously also require that the citizens of these countries are subject to all the values that we europeans respect. i also see and commend the solutions adopted here, for example, in canada, new zealand and australia, with regard to the same population. i hope that other countries will follow their example.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report on climate diplomacy, which, while it touches on important issues such as the link between climate change and natural disasters and the achievement of the goals of the paris agreement, also touches on difficult issues to accept, such as the link between climate change and migration. the exploitation of natural resources in countries such as africa, asia and south america, including the purchase of agricultural land and deforestation, is the result of exploitation by global businesses and corporations, which should be limited and controlled, helping the people of these countries, and through such actions affect the well-being of nations and indigenous peoples. it would be worthwhile to raise awareness among union citizens of the link between global business, migration, poverty and conflicts over access to resources, which in turn leads to environmental destruction.
mr. chairman, please! i think that climate change is a given for almost everyone. it wasn't until a decade ago -- and i'll remind you, even some in the scientific community were questioning this process, which is dangerous for humanity, for the earth. so it is time for all of us together, not just here in the european union, not just here in europe, but all over the world, to take radical action to make things better. this is particularly necessary now that the president of the united states has recently decided to withdraw from the paris agreement. the european union should therefore become not only a european, but also a global leader in climate action. and you can't do that without diplomacy, because this is an international, cross-border scale. that is why i supported the report.
madam president! there were no easy points at the last council summit. i'll pick two points where it's easier to be divided and conflicted than to agree. the first is, of course, migration. given the differences of opinion that have emerged ahead of the summit, the agreement on a common position is a relative success, especially in the complex geopolitical climate around europe, as it represents the will to seek a common european response in this area. some things are not controversial at all: sealing the external borders (but of course it is not about words, it is about a solid budgetary instrument), working with transit and origin countries or finding a solution to the problem of emigration where it originally arises, which is also a non-controversial issue, provided that words are followed by money, hence this trust fund for africa, so important to president tajani. the new thing is the reception centers. but the main message that has been widely shared in some countries is, of course, to stop forcibly relocating refugees. i think that relocation would not work in the current political climate in europe, where it could only fuel xenophobic or anti-european movements. many issues remain to be resolved, including the reform of the dublin system and the so-called secondary flows. but i come now to the second point, which is also more easily divided and tense than agreed, namely the budget. the council lacked a strong declaration of urgency, that is, the will to complete and agree on the budget after 2021, but before the european elections. and i also think that the proposal put forward by commissioner oettinger does not help us to find a common solution, because there is too much difference, especially in cohesion policy, between the countries that lose - or have losses of 24 to 25% - and those that gain. it's not gonna be easy to get a quick settlement.
madam president! what we are seeing is the result of years of hard work by european socialists who have built a welfare system here that attracts the continent's most problematic immigrants. when you put free food on the table, you have to watch the door afterwards to make sure no suspicious company comes in. when people come into the market, everyone is happy, every customer is welcome, because you have to pay your bill, but when you give things away for free, you take people away, and then you have problems. the european union doesn't have a border with any country that is at war, except maybe ukraine, so there's no reason for it to take in war refugees. there's no reason to rescue people in the mediterranean who make some crazy decision. if a person wants to make such a journey at his own risk, he cannot demand that others rescue him. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. that's exactly right. and that means we're giving up on social policy, because social policy encourages people to take risks. it is foolish actions and foolish words - like the lord's at this moment - that encourage people to sail the mediterranean and risk their lives, because they know that the lord will save them. they hope, and oftentimes it ends badly, because not everyone can be saved. so if someone is willing to take a risk and wants to cross the atlantic, then of course he has the right to do so, but he cannot expect others to always rush to his aid. sometimes they can, but they don't have to.
mr. chairman, please! as we have heard, the last summit on refugees was a compromise, a success. there will be no forced relocation. but when she returned to germany, chancellor merkel said that 14 european union countries had voluntarily agreed to relocate refugees to their territories. three of the countries she mentioned immediately denied the reports. could the president-in-office of the european council say what the outcome of the summit really was? has there really been an agreement between germany and these countries, or is the european public being deceived in order to save the german government coalition? if so, is the agreement not compatible with the dublin iii regulation? and about this regulation, this agreement, i want to remind you that when chancellor merkel made the decision in september 2015 not to close the german borders to refugees, horst seehofer, then the prime minister of the bavarian government, called it a lawlessness and threatened to bring a case to the federal constitutional court. i ask you, therefore, whether the council or the commission has initiated proceedings against countries which have infringed the dublin iii regulation?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i could say all that mr delia said, and i will not say it again, because i want to draw attention to another aspect of the matter. well, the term social dumping has been used twice here. this is an allegation against eastern european workers that they are social dumping. what is dumping? dumping occurs when someone sells a product below the price at which it was produced. here in eastern europe, work is even cheaper, because all other products are cheaper, life is cheaper. why can't we compete on pay too? that's the first question. and the second question. mr jean-claude juncker said at the beginning of his term 'the same job, the same pay', but let's reverse this and say 'the same pay for the same job with the same employer', and then let the cashier in auchan in paris earn the same as the one in bydgoszcz or vice versa. so you're saying you can use the pay gap in the other direction, but not in this direction? it is a two-way street and i ask the commissioner to consider it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i think that tomorrow's vote will really answer the question of what kind of europe we want. do we want to support the common market? do we want to promote competitiveness? do we want to promote the free movement of goods and services? but are we in favour of supporting protectionism, bureaucracy and restricting competition, because, please, ladies and gentlemen, some of you, when you talk about protecting the rights of drivers, actually want to eliminate competition, because you are not in the way of the fact that other companies are better - let's say it honestly in this room. the proposals that have come out of the transport committee are balanced and take account of all the comments. we are eliminating abuse and, ladies and gentlemen, transport companies, transport organisations, not only from eastern europe but also from western europe, from all countries, are saying: support the proposals and compromise of the transport committee, otherwise we will be burdened with unnecessary bureaucracy. small and medium-sized enterprises cannot cope with this bureaucracy. consumers will have to pay higher prices for goods and services. ladies and gentlemen! let's be accountable to consumers, to voters, and let's create laws that are transparent, that can be reviewed, controlled, and let's not come up with regulations that cause many small and medium-sized businesses to fail.
mr. chairman, please! let us say again what the introduction of the rules on posting to international transport means. it's a legal mess. this is the introduction of an obligation to apply up to 20 different national laws or up to 50 different wages in one month. take the example of a driver who crosses five member states in a week and does so three times a month. his salary will depend on the number of hours he spends in a given country, region or land. this means that if he suddenly gets stuck in traffic in luxembourg, his salary will have to be increased accordingly. what if he has to stay there? how many additional administrative staff will need to calculate salaries in smes on a daily basis? what about contracts for a specific amount of service? what about the prices of imported products? if we're going to delegate international shipping, why do we need a lex specialis? to those who think that the inclusion of transport by delegation from day two, three or four will change anything, i say: no, it will not change anything. one day equals six hours. can you imagine a transport company in europe spending only 12, 18 or 24 hours a month in eu countries because of the restrictions on posting? do we want non-eu companies to work the rest of the days? certainly not the companies from western europe. for weeks we have been receiving calls from a huge number of organisations representing companies from western europe: france, germany, denmark, the netherlands, finland, portugal, spain, ireland, belgium and the uk, as well as from central and eastern europe. all of them call for the exclusion of international transport from the rules on posting. let's hear their voices, let's support the tran report.
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you not think that respect for the dignity of workers requires first of all that their interests be taken into account, that their reasoning be heard, that the social context be taken into account? after all, the differences in competitiveness between our countries, which always have different aspects, are simply part of the reality of europe as it is. how can you ignore that?
mr. chairman, please! i've heard a lot of stories here. for example, an employee doesn't sleep in the office, but at home. except the worker doesn't guard the truck and the cargo, and the driver has to guard it. go to calais in your country, in france, and see if the driver can just go to the hotel. second point. someone said he earns a few dozen euros a year. in poland, drivers earn between 1 400 and 2 000 euros per month. the third point. i understand that's a very nice way of saying "same pay for same work". all right, commissioner, then, and the same rates. why in germany does a german company get 2 euros, a polish company 1.60 euros? here you go, same rates per tonne-kilometre in germany or france and we'll talk about the same work, the same pay. we should support the report and the compromise of mrs kyllönen, who has done a great job. i thank her for that and i congratulate her.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for this very fruitful and very dynamic debate. we have taken very good note of your comments and i would like to react to a few of them. first, i hope i have already made it very clear that the commission does not support the exclusion of international services from posting rules entirely. however, these rules have to be applied taking into account the highly mobile nature of the sector and need to be implemented in a proportional manner. any extreme proposal would be contrary to the objectives of the eu laws and principles. this is why the commission proposed introducing a three-day threshold for cumulative presence of drivers in a month. it would allow proper protection of drivers while avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens. application of posting crews to international service from the first hour would, on the contrary, create red tape without real benefits for drivers. it would simply be unenforceable. please keep in mind that thresholds already exist in the posting directive for other sectors which are less mobile. next, yes, you are right, drivers are not second-class and that is why a balanced approach to the issues on the table is essential – a balanced approach. neither of the proposals leads to exploitation. on the contrary, they lead to fairness and enforcement that rewards those that want to play the game within the law. please keep in mind that we have been focusing our debate today only on the three remaining issues but there are many measures on which there is a broad consensus within this house, but also among member states and between social partners. like you, we have been consulting – unions, hauliers, operators, member states and other associations. we should not forget the large number of improvements for the functioning of the transport market, for drivers’ working conditions, for better enforcement as well as for simplification through four levels of digitalisation. i respect the very diversified views and different points of view from different stakeholders in this house. but now it is time to come together and find a way forward that will lead to the conclusion of this file. and we can only do that if we really sincerely engage and understand that we cannot stay fixed on our own position and not move. whatever the deal is, it must make the rules proportionate, enforceable and transparent. this will help to restore trust and to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal road transport market. what is at stake here is the fairness and the competitiveness of a vital sector of our economy, but also the credibility of our institutions. i hope we have learned from past experience. inaction can only fuel populism and be destructive. so please bring all your wisdom to the negotiating table, so that we can find a reasonable agreement before the next european elections. i am very much looking forward to your positive vote tomorrow and a possibility to engage as soon as possible in a trilogue and deliver on these files.
in writing. with such complex and complex issues as international transport, it is extremely difficult to find a compromise that not only balances the rights and obligations of each party but also takes into account the differences in working conditions, laws and customs of all member states. therefore, common sense must be the overriding principle in the creation of this law, not the particular interests of just one party. i believe that this is the sensible compromise that has been worked out in the transport committee. i strongly support the exclusion of the international transport sector from the scope of the posting of workers directive because of the unique, highly mobile nature of these operations. otherwise, the administrative burden would be enormous, disproportionate to the theoretical benefits that the driver would allegedly receive. only good enforcement of existing rules and possible new lex specialis can guarantee that transport companies will be able to continue to provide their services in the common market and that drivers' rights to adequate pay, working conditions and rest will be enforced.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! in our resolution we focus on the humanitarian and migration aspects. and rightly so, because the situation in venezuela is terrible, and hyperinflation is preventing people from buying basic food and medicine. my country - poland - i speak on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists group - was once in a dramatic economic and political situation. in the 1980s, one and a half million people left poland for emigration. the peaceful transfer of power by the current regime and international support for political and economic reforms have proved to be the solution. perhaps venezuela should also think about this peaceful transfer of power to these people who are protesting in the streets of venezuelan cities today.
madam president! we are witnessing a dramatic situation in venezuela, whose authorities describe themselves as socialist. there's a shortage of food, water, medicine, children starving to death. this is the result of president maduro's military-based socialist experiment. venezuelans are fleeing the country en masse, going to colombia, brazil, ecuador. there are hundreds of thousands of people who just want to save their lives and the lives of their families. an even greater emigration of nearly two million people is expected. the question is: how can the european union help? we must hurry with humanitarian aid. he was talking about this help, measurable, commissioner. i would like to join the call of the ppe representative for an increase. we must decide quickly what measures we can take immediately, either directly or through, for example, caritas, whose help the venezuelan authorities accept.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me thank you for your invitation to participate in this debate on this important topic today. when a new outbreak of the ebola virus disease was declared in the democratic republic of congo (drc) on 8 may, the international community was immediately alarmed. the memories of the long struggle to contain the virus in west africa between 2014 and 2016 are still vivid in our minds. around 11 000 people fell victim to the disease in three african countries, and the virus also spread to the united states and to europe. this time round, it seems the lessons have been learned. the international response was fast, determined and comprehensive. the world health organization (wto) reacted quickly, ensured leadership and coordination, asked for sufficient amounts of funding and initiated a wide range of measures, from medical and psychological care, to awareness raising and prevention. donors stepped in early, making sure that the usd 57 million ebola strategic response plan for the drc was fully funded. we commend the commission for releasing eur 3.43 million in emergency assistance for response to this crisis on behalf of the european union. we also welcome the fact that the who requested the activation of the union’s civil protection mechanism and we welcome the fact that in 2016 the european medical corps was established to strengthen the eu’s capacity to respond to disease outbreaks and health emergencies, both inside and outside the european union. sadly, 29 people have died as a result of the ebola virus disease in the drc. we can be cautiously optimistic that the spread of the disease has now been halted. the last new case was confirmed almost a month ago at the beginning of june. i’m particularly relieved that the disease did not spread beyond the three drc provinces initially affected. it was crucial that the virus could be contained in mbandaka, a port city of around one million people. but we have to remain on our guard before declaring the end of the outbreak. no new cases must be confirmed during 42 days, twice the ebola incubation period, counting from the day the last case was confirmed. so let us hope that the end of july will see a positive outcome. even so, there will be no time for complacency. many things worked well this time, such as ring vaccination of more than 3 000 people, which was not available three years ago. but we may be able to do even better. we welcome the fact that the world health organization will launch a review shortly, after the end of the outbreak has, hopefully, been declared. one thing is already clear: we must invest more in strengthening resilience in the drc to respond to future outbreaks of the virus. the country’s health system is ill prepared to cope with challenges of this scale. in that context, we highly appreciate the european parliament’s october 2015 resolution on the long-term lessons from the previous ebola crisis and how to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. we must not forget that the drc is also facing one of the world’s most complex and long-standing humanitarian crises. some 13.1 million people in the country are in need of humanitarian assistance; 4.5 million congolese have been initially displaced and 7.7 million people, or 11% of the population, are food insecure. the european union and its member states are at the forefront of the response to these needs, but more must be done. the presidency will monitor developments in the drc closely. we will put the humanitarian situation, as well as the ebola outbreak, back on the agenda again if necessary to enable the member states and the commission closely to coordinate their response. neither africa nor europe, nor indeed the world, can afford another ebola epidemic.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to welcome the austrian presidency and to thank the minister for her comments about this demanding field of the ebola outbreak, and for her kind words about our engagement in tackling it. from the very beginning, the european union has mobilised its resources to assist the international response to the new ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo. we have taken urgent action to help manage and contain the spread of the virus. personally, as eu ebola coordinator, i have been monitoring the situation closely from day one, in direct contact and coordination with the new director of the world health organisation (who), dr tedros gebreyesus (that’s a difficult ethiopian surname!). eight weeks later, the who has stated that the ebola outbreak has been ‘largely contained’ and that it sees the situation with ‘cautious optimism’. we won this fight because this time we were ready. we had developed our ‘weapons’. eu-funded research against ebola has continued. we co-funded vaccines and diagnostics that were quickly deployed in the field at times when ebola was not making the headlines. because the truth is that we learned our lessons from the ebola outbreak in 2014 in west africa. i saw with my own eyes in november 2014 the situation in sierra leone, in guinea and in liberia and i can compare the situation at that time with the new outbreak in congo. we should always be prepared for the worst. we should never be complacent – i completely agree with you on that, minister, and i assure you there is no complacency when ebola breaks out. the recent outbreak has not turned into an enormous epidemic because of the immediate, coordinated and efficient international intervention. it was a rapid and robust response. our team in the emergency response coordination centre (ercc) is following developments 24/7. since the start of the outbreak, we have been working closely with the who, the congolese authorities and our international partners. our efforts focused initially on helping to get medical teams, equipment and supplies to the affected zones. in addition, we have supported the coordination of the response and the distribution of necessary information for the local communities. that is a very important activity. at the same time, all available eu emergency response instruments have been mobilised. firstly, as the minister already said, the commission has provided eur 3.5 million in humanitarian aid, primarily to the who, the red cross, the international organization for migration and unicef, and we have focused on coordination and logistical support for the ebola response. secondly, our assistance supports primarily life-saving intervention, including with our own european civil protection and humanitarian aid operations department humanitarian air service, echo flight; infection prevention and control; water, sanitation and hygiene measures; behaviour advocacy; and, of course, safe burials. we know from the previous outbreak that burials are one of the most influential factors in the spread of the virus. we also support the surveillance of exit and entry points of ebola-affected areas. this is another key measure to avoid the spread of the virus. thirdly, the european union also provides, in kind, logistical support through echo flight, which regularly transports personnel, supplies and equipment from kinshasa to the affected areas. fourthly, our european union civil protection mechanism (ucpm) has come into play. the world health organization made a request for assistance, requesting emergency medical teams. norway, through our mechanism, offered isolation transport shuttles to bring patients safely to treatment centres, medical personnel were deployed, and the commission covers 85% of the transport costs. fifthly, in terms of field expertise and deployments, the commission’s regional humanitarian office in kinshasa is fully mobilised. extra staff have been deployed, including medical specialists and logisticians. more staff remain on standby. sixth is monitoring and coordination. the emergency response coordination centre is coordinating with member states and other commission and eu services and agencies, such as the european centre for disease prevention and control, the humanitarian field office in kinshasa and international partners. the seventh aspect is satellite mapping. copernicus is a well known, excellent and sophisticated mapping system. copernicus emergency management service has provided satellite maps of affected areas in order to support field deployments. i will continue to follow the situation on the ground closely. we will also look into lessons learned from this experience. so far, fortunately, because of our coordinated action, we have avoided the worst-case scenario. at the same time, we stand ready to provide any further assistance if needed. our actions are a clear demonstration of eu solidarity with the people of the democratic republic of congo. we will continue to stand by the congolese people until this ebola outbreak is over. in conclusion, once again i have to say that there is no complacency when ebola breaks out.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me start by applauding the swift reaction of international players, including the european union, to this outbreak. this is the ninth epidemic in the democratic republic of the congo in the past four decades. i am glad to see there has been significant progress since the last one, in may 2017, and that the recommendations from parliament’s last resolution on ebola were taken into consideration. the number of potentially infected persons requiring follow-up has gradually decreased and by the end of june all of them had ceased to need mandatory monitoring. nevertheless, because of the disease’s serious nature and the complexity of the geographical area in which it occurs, and therefore the lack of complete data, the risk to public health, both at national and regional level, remains high. for this reason the eu should continue to provide assistance through infection prevention control and support for health centres, as well as entry/exit point monitoring for the affected areas. the eu has also funded the largest research effort on the vaccine against ebola and this is an initiative worth scaling up. from the regional perspective, it is important that the countries exposed to the possibility of an outbreak should take action on ebola readiness and have emergency response plans in place, and that cooperation in this very important area be enhanced.
madam president! the last ebola outbreak was primarily in west africa. it was deadly, with tens of thousands of lives lost. at this point, it is worth recalling that the european union is a leader in supporting african countries, including in the fight against this serious disease. and it is worthwhile to thank the european commission for its great commitment to this debate. i am convinced that the negative impact of this epidemic would have been much greater if it had not been for the excellent work and activities of our representatives in africa. but there is still more to be done, not just directly to fight the disease - such as a vaccine - but also to develop education and improve health in these countries.
in writing. the ebola outbreak this year was the ninth outbreak in the democratic republic of congo. i say was because it looks like she was stopped at a pretty early stage. this time, the hecatomb of 2014-2016 was avoided, when more than 11,000 people died. the death toll this time is likely to be around 30 people. several factors contributed to the rapid containment of the outbreak, such as the relatively low level of urbanization in the region where it occurred, which limited the transmission of the virus. but it's important to note the immediate response of the world health organization, working with local doctors, who had the vaccine, organized a very rapid vaccination campaign of people who were exposed to the virus and isolated people who were infected or suspected of being infected. that's why we're talking about dozens of cases or suspected cases. we'll have to wait a few weeks to declare an end to the outbreak, but this action has shown how important coordinated action is to prevent the spread of the virus. although it's important to note that we can't celebrate the end of ebola. this virus may surprise us again and again, either by appearing in new places or by mutating. but we need to learn from this year's outbreak to implement more effective ebola defense mechanisms.
mr. chairman, please! small and medium-sized enterprises are a real powerhouse. over 99% of companies are smes. they employ over 90 million people in europe. they generate over 4 billion in value added. but on the other hand, they're the companies that are having the most difficult time in the market. they suffer from a lack of access to capital, excessive bureaucracy, rigid labour laws, or high living costs. these are the companies that need public support, but to make it effective, you have to be able to define clearly which companies belong to this sector and which do not. but the world is changing. the economy is changing, too. new forms of business, new business spaces, including on the internet, are emerging. therefore, a definition based on traditional criteria such as the number of employees or turnover is not appropriate for today's times. it is therefore worth considering a new definition so that we, as the european union and the member states, can support this very important sector of the economy more effectively.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the establishment of a single common definition of what is actually considered to be an sme is intended to help create new conditions for operations, to protect against distortions of competition between enterprises, to ensure equal treatment of all operators in the sector and to improve the coherence and effectiveness of policies. when constructing a new sme definition, it is worth remembering that it should serve two equally important purposes: to facilitate support from the union budget to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they face specific challenges arising from their size, and to facilitate the design of policies, regulations and regulations tailored to the needs of this type of enterprise. the rapporteur, markus pieper, rightly calls for the burden of red tape to be lifted from smes. markus, an example of the huge bureaucratic burden on smes is the proposed solutions in the area of posting of workers, especially in the transport sector, which we will be voting on tomorrow. mr rübig spoke of the weak representation of ngos representing smes. that's right! it is very important for good lawmaking that there are more of them, that we hear their voices better here in the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president and madam high representative! to begin with, it is worth recalling that the republic of armenia was established in 1991, following the collapse of the soviet union. this country of over three million people is uniquely situated at the crossroads of europe, asia, and the middle east. but you also have to remember that he has important and not always easy neighbors. it's russia and the regional powers: turkey and iran. unfortunately, wars also break out in the vicinity of this country from time to time. we also have a lot of different flashpoints. i think that this situation and the very tragic history of the armenians demand that the european union should support solutions which affect the stability of both the republic of armenia and the region. of course, there are many ways to do this. one possibility was the proposed association of armenia with the union. armenia, however, made a different choice by joining the eurasian economic union. the question therefore arises as to what was the solution to this situation. and i think they made the right choice. it is both logical and beneficial that the european union has negotiated an individual partnership agreement with the republic of armenia. this is undoubtedly a good, pragmatic step in the right direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as you can see, or hear, this chamber is hopelessly predictable. the title of your speech, prime minister, was ‘the future of europe’ but apparently no one is interested in the future of europe here. they are indulging in their favourite pastime, which is poland-bashing. you could just as well have recited shakespeare sonnets and you would have had exactly the same effect. you can see how it is difficult to get through with arguments, because there is a thick wall of lies, half-lies, half-truths, mystifications – like this ridiculous story about arresting a man for carrying roses. it just boggles the mind when you hear something like it. every day we have to deal with such idiotic stories that are absolutely groundless. this also shows that this chamber is, as i have said before, completely resistant to listening to arguments. you never hear counterarguments. you hear heckling, booing and mud-slinging. that’s the usual reaction. there is what i would call a very deep refusal to know, here in this chamber. i can continue, making a more general point. you were talking, prime minister, about a democratic awakening in europe. yes, there is a democratic awakening. at the same time, there is an increasing number of people who say that the european union is going in the wrong direction. it’s over 40% now – in some countries above 50%. i have come here and i have listened to self-indulgent and self-serving comments – ‘we are so good’, ‘we are so responsive to citizens’. so are all these people insane? are they all being fooled by some demagogues? no! the reaction of these people is the final effect of what is being said and done here. this arrogance, this self-serving arrogance, is simply becoming more and more unacceptable. so, yes, when i hear about the separation of powers in poland, the problem of the separation of powers, i think: ‘come on!’ here we have a commissioner, a commissioner who is representative of the executive body, and the commissioner is telling the polish parliament and the polish courts what to do with this and that law, or how this law should be changed. is that an example of the separation of powers? it is a blatant violation of the separation of powers. (reaction to off-mike comments by mr verhofstadt ) you see! that’s debate, european parliament style. i suggest, mr president, that you start putting order in your own house. yesterday, we were prevented from having an exhibition on jósef pilsudski, one of the founders of polish independence. that is censorship – and not for the first time. there is a well-established practice of censorship in this parliament and you seem to be quite serene about it. you do not really care because this censorship serves the interest of the majority. people are being punished here. fortunately, recently the court reversed the decision of the european parliament. but that continues. so i suggest, before the finger-pointing at poland starts, this house should be made more open, please, and a more receptive place for all points of view to be debated and considered. that is my request. i know it has no chance whatsoever, but i just had to say it. (applause)
i wanted to address those words as the successor to janus korwin-mikke. you're responsible for breaking the law. you should resign. the law has been broken. a polish mp was unjustly persecuted here and it can't be that no one is responsible. heads must be falling off. you should resign. you have publicly, demonstrably broken the law and you still insist on doing so. it's not a question of whether you agree with what i'm saying or not, but a member of parliament has a mandate and the right to say what he likes and to express his opinion. you're twisting his words in a malicious way. you have no right to do that, and as chairman, you should remain neutral.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. prime minister morawiecki! when i look back over the last three years of the polish government and parliament, i have mixed feelings. on the one hand, i see that the current government, instead of reducing taxes, is increasing them. to get votes, he doesn't hesitate to take one to buy the other. i see it taking away the personal freedom of poles, giving countless special services more and more powers of surveillance and force. after all, laws like the anti-terrorism act and the agricultural land act would have been called bolshevik 10 years ago. one allows you to wiretap anyone, block bank accounts and websites without a court order. it allows the authorities to lock anyone up for long periods of time without any possibility of defence, even without giving a reason for the incarceration. the second prohibits most citizens from buying or selling land without the consent of the government. does not the current requirement to register anyone who has bought even a minimal amount of gold refer back to communist times? i also see that you want to make poland a battleground for the americans and the russians. by the way, i don't understand this attitude in the east to make russia an enemy instead of a friend. it doesn't matter. meanwhile, america is not the same as it was 30 years ago, and russia is not the same. that's not what you were preaching before the election. but on the other hand, i know that the purpose of the present european union is to crush all resistance to the authority of the european commission and to force the citizens of the union into unconditional obedience. that's why patriotism is so dull, because countries that have patriotism are hard to enslave. hence the struggle with family ties, because where there is parental love, there is no authority of officials. hence the fight against christendom, because according to these future rulers of europe, it is a competition for the government of souls. hence the willingness to flood europe with muslim immigrants, because if people in europe are afraid, it's easier to take away their freedom and rule them. that's why the terror of political correctness, the promotion of homosexuality, the interference in the internal affairs of other countries. and that is why i wholeheartedly support the actions of your government and the polish parliament, which are opposed to the union's plan. i have a very important question for the prime minister. the european commission is currently preparing a directive on copyright in the digital market. this directive will shut down the internet forever. it'll shut down the world wide web. it gives the european commission enormous power. the directive will leave eu citizens with only one source of information about the world, controlled by the european commission and national governments: newspapers, television and several internet portals. i'm asking the prime minister for a clear statement, not a general one like "we want the least amount of freedom taken away" and so on. i mean, specifically. if the directive leaves articles 11 and 13 unchanged, will your government support the directive in the council or block it? i think there are millions of people waiting for you to speak.
mr. chairman, please! this was supposed to be a debate on the future of europe, but from what i can see, no one but mr. batten is sticking to the subject here. everyone is engaged in a rather rude "calling" of the polish government with no knowledge or competence to do so. an example of complete dilettantism is mr. verhofstadt, who speaks without any knowledge of the subject. but this is the union you brought us into. this law and justice persuaded the poles, deceived them, luring them with great benefits from european subsidies. it's brought us into such a union that now it even wants to put it in the constitution. you put us up against the wall and let yourself crawl in front of the eu members or bureaucrats. the vision of europe is already set. germany and france want one country, one army, one budget, and we either sign up for it or we don't. that's the facts. we're not gonna change anything here, so the sooner we figure this out, the sooner we get out of this company, the better off we'll be. you were talking about the freedom gene. people in poland are protesting now not against the retirement age of judges, because it does not interest anyone in poland, contrary to what you from the greens seem to think. people are interested in the fate of the internet directive. the polish foreign ministry has so far generally supported the direction has some minor reservations, but generally supports the direction in which this directive is going, and if you really do not want to have your tongue burned when you say the words gen of freedom, then you should remember that polish mps, including those from your party, do not vote here almost every time for the next eu directives that restrict freedom, only to vote against. not to mention what is done against freedom in one's own backyard, because to talk about the gene of freedom, if at the same time you prohibit sunday trading or the sale of agricultural land, is also a misunderstanding. and i wanted to tell mr. tajani that i don't care what you accept or don't accept. my mandate to say what i want comes from my constituents, not from you, and you will not tell me what i can and cannot say here.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, it turns out that colleagues here in this room, on this side of the room, do not want to talk to us about the future of europe. they want to make our lives in our country. i would like to call on you once again, if we are talking about european standards and values, to take care of your country, and then europe will look different. i'm appealing to a friend from malta. i just wanted to say that some in this room think that they brought us freedom and democracy and that they should now be its guardians in poland. but the situation is even worse, and that is why we should talk about the union, because i sometimes get the impression that some people seem to think that we need some new form of division, some new curtain, which is often the result of fear of our competitiveness and our growing subjectivity. the idea, often accompanied by pro-european rhetoric, is to reduce the union and europe itself to the size of a non-optimal currency area. that is why i wanted to ask you, prime minister, how you see the role of the countries of our region in maintaining what was the great achievement of 1989 - european unity.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen, prime minister! when we talk about the rule of law, we should have some common standards. mr. timmermans' work was lacking in that. in order not to make the votes in this house sound like hypocrisy, it should be noted that poland is one of the countries with the highest rates of implementation of the judgments of the court of justice of the european union. that in poland it is possible to demonstrate, and in other eu countries, for example, demonstrations are dispersed by the mounted police, as in the country of origin of one of the people who speak most loudly here against poland. there are countries where, unlike poland, the media is effectively censored, such as germany, where the rape of women could not be reported for days in the german media. ladies and gentlemen, poland has adopted standards that work well in other eu countries. why is it that in spain there are no voices that the national council of the judiciary is not properly elected or the equivalent of such an authority in poland, if we have exactly copied this model? why is there no request for the initiation of the article 7 procedure in respect of germany, where the supreme court judges are elected by a committee composed of half of the members of the bundestag and of the land ministries of justice?
prime minister! you have presented our country, poland, as a country of bandits, thieves, mafia and other criminal activities that allegedly characterized poland until two years ago, when your party took power. but not in our name not in our name, shout today polish citizens who gather in thousands in front of polish courts. they're also in front of the european parliament and here in the gallery. and you are being listened to here in this room by people who know very well how much we have achieved together with the european union in the last decades and how your party is destroying it. the members of this house also know from recent european history, and sometimes from their own tragic experience, what the destruction of the independence of the courts can lead to. prime minister! you've already shown time and time again that you can change the law overnight. the last time you changed the infamous holocaust law, it took you nine hours and 45 minutes. you still have a chance. repeal the supreme court bills. no one will ever take that as a sign of weakness. you have a chance to not go down in history with the most hideous of letters.
prime minister! you and i come from different political backgrounds, but for you and for me poland is our homeland, and that is why i protest against the great slander you made against poland in the second part of your speech. don't devalue poland's achievements just because it wasn't your government. poland is a country of proud people who deserve to be told that they worked honestly, that they succeeded. i now turn to the first part of your speech. i agree with you that we need more of a common market. but you did not mention the single currency. when do you think poland will join the euro and when will you start the debate on this?
prime minister! it is a fundamental principle of the rule of law that collective liability does not apply in a state governed by the law. it must always be the case that both guilt and punishment are individual in nature, while in poland, legal acts are adopted which introduce collective liability. for example, people who had only served one day before 1990 now receive a much lower pension. i wanted to ask you in this connection, will your government repeal these laws and will your government withdraw from the polish sejm a bill that also includes such restrictions for officers and soldiers?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to recall the words i addressed to the audience at my last meeting with the vice-president of the commission, mr frans timmermans, in the ep: 'europe, come to your senses! poland and the european union need each other. for over a thousand years, poland has been a part of the history of our continent, and for many years it has also been doing so within the european union, to which it belongs as a country. poland has a significant influence on european security policy, both military and economic. as a country, we belong to nato and are active in its structures, where we are one of the few member states to meet its financial commitments for common defence. our efforts to secure the eu's eastern border are of particular importance in the face of the growing migration crisis. the polish capital is home to the headquarters of the frontex agency, which monitors the security of the community's borders. the examples of fruitful cooperation could be cited for a long time, but i would like to conclude my speech by saying that only joint action will ensure our harmonious development, without discriminating against any of the member states on the basis of different beliefs, values or, for example, voter decisions that do not fit into the great political coalitions of europe. together we can do so much, and divided we are vulnerable to many of the modern threats we all face.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the document entitled 'towards an eu external strategy to combat early and forced marriage', which is recognised by the un not only as child abuse and violence but also as a violation of human rights, as well as violating the principle of individual freedom and autonomy, also because of the risk to the health and life of girls whose early pregnancy is very risky, not only because of the injury caused by the coercion but also because of the biological underdevelopment. the document, while setting a minimum age of marriage at 18, promotes sexual and reproductive health in the context of equality, which is simply the right to abortion, a threat to the life and mental health of every woman, and even more so of young girls. both require education and awareness, for one evil cannot be combated by another.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against it. this report ignores all cultural differences, it wants to impose only the right vision on the whole world, it is a manifestation of european pride and ignorance of cultural differences. in poland, you can get married at 16, and nobody's ever had a problem with that. i don't know why we are treated like islamic countries and 16 year old marriages are considered child marriages and forced marriages. but since you understand that any marriage under the age of 18 is forced, even with parental consent, i understand that abortion for those under 16 will also be considered forced abortion, and that early contraception given to those under 18 will also be banned as forced. it's check and mate. you've scored a goal against your own goal.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report on the posting of drivers because the amendment to extend the posting rules to international transport was not adopted until ten days after it had been adopted in the member state concerned. i have advocated the total exemption of international transport from the logging rule, but i know that these ten days also represent a chance for the transport sector to adapt practically to the new rules. of course, the calculation of the hours in the working day is also an important issue - this is very crucial - but there was a chance for further compromise in the council. now the report goes back to the transportation committee. it is hoped that the continued rational work on this report will produce good results.
mr president, greece is about to complete successfully the latest european stability mechanism (esm) assistance programme after more than eight years of strenuous efforts to stabilise public finances and overcome deep recession. more than eur 240 billion has been disbursed by the euro area member states to assist greece since 2010, an impressive proof of european solidarity. thanks to that, the greek drama is coming to an end, hopefully, although many doubts have been expressed – including in this house – as to whether this will indeed be the positive scenario. however, as we see it today, the greek economy is back on the path of growth and the fiscal primary balance turned into a solid surplus of 4% of gdp, which acts as a buffer and a protection against future shocks. at the same time, a number of important reforms have been implemented, including in the areas of the labour market, tax collection, sustainable pensions and bank restructuring. let me congratulate our greek friends on those remarkable achievements. however, one of the reasons for that was the decision by the greek government not to leave the euro area, despite many calls to the contrary. today we heard voices claiming that it is because of euro area membership that the greek economy has suffered so much, but i am of a different opinion. had greece decided to leave the euro area, the implications would have been truly catastrophic: even deeper recession, higher unemployment, hyperinflation, mass bankruptcies, the collapse of the banking sector and, of course, not a single euro of assistance from the euro area. however, while celebrating the completion of the esm programme, we have to emphasise that a lot remains to be done. the greek economy still remains very fragile. that is why i welcome the decision by the eurogroup to provide further support to greece, including three important measures: the abolition of the step—up interest rate, the transfer of securities markets programme (smp) profit to greece and, finally, a further deferral of the european financial stability facility (efsf) repayments by 10 years. i wish our greek friends good luck for the future.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in this debate, i would like to draw attention to the following points: the commission's proposal for an increase in appropriations for commitments of more than 3% and, in particular, an increase in appropriations for payments of only 2.7% seems insufficient. this may mean that the problem of accumulated arrears, which the commission has known from previous years, is emerging. the proposed increase in funding for horizon 2020, erasmus plus and the connecting europe facility is to be welcomed, while the amount of funding for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and programmes to promote youth employment is insufficient. the proposed increase in appropriations for payments in heading 1b is alarmingly low, at only 1.1%, which could jeopardise the implementation of infrastructure projects. finally, the proposal to reduce agricultural appropriations by up to eur 550 million is unacceptable, especially in the context of the ongoing turbulence on agricultural markets caused, inter alia, by the numerous natural disasters and the consequences of the russian embargo.
mr. chairman, please! i am sorry to see that parliament is once again fighting for a budget that is even bigger than the commission and the council are proposing, and that money is poisoned. their division not only gives the commission bureaucracy and power over the countries the division of this budget is a way to demoralize the people. subsidies to agriculture or the development of entrepreneurship create nepotism and mutual hostility between people. how can a farmer work when his neighbor has a higher income because he can fill out the forms better? how does an entrepreneur feel when he sees his shrewd competitor get a raise for his company? everyone sees that it's not work and honesty that pays, but cunning, begging and submission. schuman's idea of a europe of nations, where the union only protects the right to free movement of people, goods, ideas and services, was to give europe freedom and competitiveness in the world, and we have a decline in the competitiveness of companies and agriculture. let's get rid of this excess budget, or the union will die and the nations will not recover.
in writing. in the 2019 budgetary procedure, we are at a unique and significant moment in eu budget planning. it coincides with the negotiations and proposals for new programmes under the next mff. it will also be the last eu budget to be adopted in the current ep term, for which we have identified economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and a particular focus on youth development as key priorities. from the perspective of the committee on culture and education, erasmus+, the most important programme to support the mobility of young people, must undoubtedly remain one of the top priorities also at the end of the current mff. i therefore regret that the level of funding proposed for erasmus+ in the draft budget for 2019 is much lower than parliament expected and only corresponds to the level assumed in the multiannual financial planning and does not even take into account the remaining additional appropriations allocated to the programme in the framework of the review of the mff. the same is true for the creative europe programme, which is key to supporting the eu's cultural and audiovisual sector, which is a source of employment for many young people. the level of funding of the programme must be in line with its ambition, in particular with regard to the sub-programme 'culture', which is chronically under-funded and which therefore has difficulty in achieving satisfactory success rates.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! voting, both passive and active, is a key act of democracy and a basic civil right. it is the duty of every democratic state to ensure that all citizens who are entitled to vote, regardless of their level of competence, are able to participate in elections. unfortunately, despite the passing of time and the development of technology, disability is very often associated with an indirect restriction of citizens' rights, because participation in the vote becomes difficult or impossible due to the lack of accessibility to the polling stations or the lack of procedures that facilitate access to the polling stations or reading the ballot papers. in poland, the civic platform government introduced changes to the electoral law in 2011 that, in addition to the obligation to ensure accessibility of premises and various facilities for people with disabilities for example, the preparation of braille enabled correspondence voting. the elderly and the disabled were the first to be considered, but eventually this form of voting was made available to all who needed it and who had made an early application. currently, this option is limited to a group of people with disabilities, which greatly complicates the system and stigmatizes those who use this form of voting. i'm not going to let you down. in the european union, at least 20 countries have postal voting. it is used by a large proportion of the voting population, including people with disabilities. but we need much wider changes, and i would first of all like to thank you very much for all the initiatives you mentioned at the beginning of the debate. it is important that we work on this issue, and i would like to ask what tools the commission has to influence member states so that elections are more inclusive not only in terms of the implementation of the law, but also in terms of how broadly the law covers citizens who are entitled to vote.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. my dear colleagues! i am glad that we are tackling the issue of the accessibility of european elections today, and i hope that we will continue to debate this important subject. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities requires that conditions be created for the full participation of persons with disabilities in political and social life on an equal basis with others. unfortunately, in many countries the convention is not being followed. disability discrimination is against the principles on which the european union is built and not only brings shame, but also squanders the enormous social and economic potential of 80 million europeans. during this term, the european parliament worked on a number of regulations to enable people with disabilities to exercise their rights. in december, we had the honour of hosting the european parliament of the disabled, which was attended by several hundred delegates from all over europe. we heard many extremely moving testimonies of violations of the rights of these people, as well as a manifesto addressed to european leaders to make european elections universally accessible and non-discriminatory. it is a commitment that i, my colleagues in the disability intergroup, and other members of parliament, led by the chairman, mr antonio tajani, take very seriously. my dear colleagues! it is not enough to declare that people with disabilities have the right to vote and to stand for election. we must create the conditions for them to enjoy this right. it is necessary to provide member states with appropriate, specific guidance and to exchange good practices. i therefore propose to launch a series of working meetings to develop them and i declare my full commitment to such activities.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! people with disabilities, who represent almost 20% of all eu citizens, face a number of barriers, both physical, mental and regulatory, which often make them reluctant to participate in elections. it's time to change that. the european union, as a signatory to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, has committed itself to ensuring the inclusion and active participation of persons with disabilities in society. to make a real difference and give all disabled people the chance to vote next year, decisive action is needed among all decision-makers, not only at european level, but also at national and local level. ensuring the accessibility of polling stations and the possibility of voting by mail or online are important issues that must, however, be addressed within the member states. however, the european union should monitor, support, coordinate and provide the appropriate know-how to improve the implementation of these tasks.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i really appreciate the security policy and, in particular, the transatlantic orientation of the current government of moldova. yet, with all my political experience, i have to raise my voice in defence of moldovan society and condemn the invalidation of two rounds of mayoral elections in chișinău. i think the decision was taken on political grounds with clear influence by the oligarchs. that is a matter of concern. in relation to the changes of electoral law, we warned that it was improper. i think that it was the right and proper time to eradicate potential weaknesses in this law, but not to orient it towards achieving political gains.
madam president! in this resolution, you call on the government in chisinau to meet certain conditions, which include recognition of the results of the chisinau elections, and the reform of the judiciary and the appointment of new judges, so as not to allow the judiciary to interfere in the electoral process. they haven't echoed it yet when poland was reprimanded in this house a few days ago for appointing new judges to influence the court, for not respecting the court's decisions, and now you are calling on the government in moldova to do the exact opposite - that is, to go on the agenda over the court's ruling and recognize the election results. what are you really calling for? to have judges appointed to rule according to your line? you're showing your hypocrisy. what do you want from poland and what do you want from moldova? can someone explain this to me? mr. boni, speaking after me, perhaps you can explain to me what this schizophrenia is? what is it about poland that makes it imperative to respect the outcome of the courts, but not here?
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i'll speak polish. the difference is that in poland the term of office of the supreme court is interrupted during its duration - which is something that no one in this resolution is talking about - and it does not break, it does not propose to change the democratic principles. a few years ago, moldova was a country on a relatively straight path towards the european union, accepting the rules of the single market and the european backbone of values. however, the political corruption, the lack of transparency in the functioning of public and private media, the changes in the electoral law that build an undue advantage for some, which were challenged by the venice commission, put moldova's future under a great question mark. the recent events, when after winning the fair democratic election for mayor, chisinau's court here and there annulled the result of the victory, and finally upheld the decision of the supreme court, clearly show the disease that plagues moldova today. it's a complete politicization of the judiciary against what we are in poland whose essence should be independence. it's a violation of the rule of law. it's the oligarchization of democracy. we need to take radical decisions to stop what is wrong with moldovan politics. let's do it today to reopen moldova's future in a good direction. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. during the government of your choice, there was a consultation of the state election commission in moscow. then, a few weeks later, there were protests in poland because the election results were falsified. how would you feel about that?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. (start of the speech off the microphone) ..there has never been a rigged election and there is no evidence of it except the rumours of the ruling party. the unfortunate consultation of the state election commission was about the introduction of the electronic system, which was blocked by the government institutions. and the independent electoral commission did it on its own, unfortunately. there was no threat to the transparency of the electoral system, however. don't laugh at that. today, the transparency of the electoral system is threatened if the supreme court, as in moldova, is subjected to political pressure. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. you did not answer the question how the government in chisinau is to fulfil the condition of recognizing the election results, since a final court decision has been issued. how's he gonna do that? the term of office of the judges is to be interrupted because there are no elections scheduled at this time.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. the resolution contains recommendations and suggestions for a return to a system that allows for transparency in the making of elections. i do not read the text of this resolution as a breach of the judicial system, which should be independent, but as a return to an independent judicial system. please read the text of the resolution carefully.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by thanking parliament for the attention you always pay to moldova. i would like to thank the representatives of the opposition in moldova for their presence here with us today, and also for the opportunity i had to meet with them yesterday. i also met with prime minister pavel filip just two months ago at our association council and i think that our constant attention and the channels which are constantly open with all our interlocutors from parliament, myself, commissioner hahn and all the european institutions are extremely important in terms of accompanying the country onto the right track. i remember, with a lot of emotion and positive memories, when we had visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens, moldova being the frontrunner of our eastern partnership countries, just a few years ago. after the invalidation of the mayoral elections in chișinău, as you know, commissioner hahn and i reacted immediately. the supreme court decision of 25 june deprives the citizens of chișinău of a democratically elected mayor. last week, the central election commission decided not to organise new elections and this confirms that chișinău will continue to be governed by a non-elected administration. these decisions undermine the trust of the citizens of moldova in the state institutions. the invalidation of the mayoral elections was non-transparent, and we expect – i personally expect – the moldovan authorities quickly to find a way out of this unacceptable solution and to guarantee judicial independence, in line with moldova’s international commitments. in all our contacts with our moldovan interlocutors, we always keep a strong focus on the reforms moldova needs: addressing the lack of independence of the judiciary, investigating the banking frauds, looking at electoral reform, protecting the space for free media, and we could continue. the european union has been consistently asking for these reforms, but – and let me stress this very clearly – it is, first and foremost, moldovan citizens who expect and deserve them. they have been asking for these reforms for years, and i think they expect them to be delivered. in recent weeks the citizens of chișinău have been expressing their dissatisfaction very clearly through peaceful demonstrations. their safety, freedom and right to demonstrate must always be respected and guaranteed. this is an absolute priority. i would like to stress – as rebecca harms mentioned earlier – that we will keep an eye on what happens in the coming weeks. we expect their safety and freedom to be protected and guaranteed. journalists must always be allowed to do their job freely. while i am mentioning the press, let me just mention the work we are doing in moldova through our strategic communication task force, to support independent media, to monitor disinformation from all sources and to communicate the benefits of cooperation with the european union. let me stress very clearly that cooperation with the european union is not against anyone: it is for the benefit of moldovan citizens. we do not think in terms of spheres of influence or geopolitics. we think only in terms of reforms, sustainable situations, including on the economic front, and the rule of law and democracy in the countries that are around us. let me also share with you the news that we will increase our work on communication and media freedom in moldova, and in other eastern partnership countries, thanks in part to this parliament’s support for all the strategic communications task forces, and in particular the ‘east’ one. credible, inclusive and transparent elections at all levels are basic pillars of any democracy. the way the mayoral elections in chișinău have been handled does not bode well for the organisation of the national elections expected at the end of this year. our position has been very clear since the council conclusions we adopted last february. the new electoral law that was adopted exactly a year ago does not address the key recommendations of international partners, namely the council of europe venice commission and the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights. this is also largely reflected in your motion for a resolution, and all this is why we have decided to put on hold the disbursement of the first tranche after the current macro—financial assistance programme. as you know, disbursements under the macro—financial assistance programme are contingent on two things: not only the successful implementation of specific economic policy measures laid out in the memorandum of understanding – and we consider that these have been implemented – but also the fulfilment of political preconditions related to respect for democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and human rights. following the invalidation of the mayoral election, the political preconditions have not been fulfilled. in this situation, a decision was taken to put on hold the disbursement of the first macro—financial assistance tranche until the political preconditions attached to our assistance are met. we hope this can happen soon – the sooner, the better – but it must happen. i will personally keep in constant contact with all our interlocutors in moldova. i hope you will continue to do the same. parliament can be extremely helpful and useful here, as always. for us, moldova is not just a neighbour, it is a friend and a partner – moldovan citizens are – and we will keeping engaging for a positive, fast solution to the current crisis. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on somalia (2018/2784 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, decades of civil war in somalia left an enormous death toll among civilians, and also a very grave humanitarian situation. we support president mohamed’s resolve to eradicate al—shabaab’s terrorism. we also support engagement of regional countries like kenya and ethiopia in strengthening this resolve. yet, i think that we have to engage and think about the future, think about withdrawal of amisom (the african union mission to somalia) and strengthening our presence, including the eu navfor somalia (operation atalanta) rearrangement after brexit.
mr carver, i see your blue card, but you have already asked ms ward a question. i would like to propose that you do not continue the british-british dispute.
thank you very much, mr. ambassador. thank you for supporting my efforts to limit the british-british debate to subjects that are not british in nature. (end of the line)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, all the speakers made the point very well that the people of somalia have, for too long, suffered from all sorts of human rights violations. we have terrorist attacks that continue to target the civilian population. the instability has made it much harder for the international community to respond to the extreme weather events that have hit the country – you also mentioned that – adding to a very worrying humanitarian situation. the number of internally displaced people is now close to 2.5 million, with almost another million who have fled to neighbouring countries. i hope that we keep these numbers in mind whenever we talk of an emergency related to migratory flows to europe. we’re talking about two million people internally displaced in a country like somalia – more than two million – and another million people who have fled towards other countries. keep these numbers in mind when we talk about migration in europe. it is a complex crisis and the european union has responded to it by mobilising all our different tools. first of all, on the humanitarian side, we stepped up our humanitarian aid to tackle the food crisis and prevent a widespread famine. some of you asked for concrete figures and numbers and i’m happy to share these. in 2017, we dedicated eur 130 million to humanitarian interventions alone, on top of the eur 156 million for development projects. these consistently include human-rights-related indicators, such as inclusion of women and young people. let me assure you that this money goes directly to projects and that we often visit projects on the ground to check not only that they are real but also that they benefit the local population. i know that some of you have done the same, not only in somalia but also in other parts of the world where we deploy our massive humanitarian aid and massive development cooperation resources. we have also increased our support for internally displaced people to provide them with shelter, clean water and health care. but humanitarian aid can be effective only if the security situation is under control, and this is definitely not the case in a country like somalia. lack of security, extortion and lack of access to certain areas often make it impossible to deliver aid to the people most in need. amisom, the african union peacekeeping operation that the european union has supported since the beginning in 2007, with more than eur 1.6 billion, has been essential in providing basic security and will remain key for some time. but i fully agree with those honourable members who underlined the need to transfer the responsibility for, and ownership of, security into the hands of the somalis themselves. as long as this has not been completed – and this is our aim, the focus of our effort and our work – it will be superficial somehow. this is why we insist so much on the fact that we will continue to support amisom and will continue to be the core element of support for the african union presence there. but we want to see a transfer of responsibility, including in operational terms, to the security forces of somalia. this is the only way to have sustainable security and peace in the country. in support of somali state building, three of our military and civilian missions are currently deployed to somalia. not operation sophia but operation atalanta is our presence at sea; and today we are cooperating very closely with the federal government and the federation member states in support of the transition plan so that the somalis can increasingly take responsibility for their own security. as i mentioned, this is our primary aim. our engagement with the somali government is aimed at empowering them to ensure peace and security in their own country without having to rely on foreign troops forever, but our engagement with the government goes well beyond security. we are working on women’s empowerment, the rule of law and human rights, which are essential to build sustainable security, sustainable peace and development. we are also, obviously, very much aware that freedom of expression in somalia is under pressure and we provide financial support to somali organisations promoting the work of the somalian media. as you know, the new government has put forward a broad reform agenda on security, economics and inclusive politics that should lead to the increased participation of women, continued judicial reform and finalisation of the constitutional review, among other issues. it is for the sake of human rights in somalia that we must accompany and support these reforms. for those reasons, in a couple of weeks from now, on 16—17 july, the european union – and i personally – will co-host and co-chair the ministerial somalia partnership forum in brussels. we will focus precisely on the government’s reform agenda, security, inclusive politics and economics, and in addition we will hold three side events, one on women’s participation (not least in this building), one on internally displaced people and one on private-public partnership. i believe this will be a very important moment, to show not only our support but also the international support for the efforts that have been made in somalia. as all the speakers mentioned, the situation there is incredibly difficult, but i can see that the people of somalia have not lost hope. they want to turn the page and, let me tell you, they clearly count on us, the european union, to be the partner – not one among the partners but the partner, as colleagues in this chamber have emphasised – that can accompany this change. we are probably the only ones who can do this successfully. we have an interest in doing it and a responsibility to do it. with our support and with parliament’s constant engagement, i believe the somalis can take the future of the country into their own hands.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. despite the determination of president mohamed and his government to implement economic, political and security reforms, and despite their commitment to the process of strengthening the rule of law and stability in somalia, the level of security in the country is very low. al-shabaab and other terrorist organisations have carried out bombings and kidnappings. the recruitment of children by the somali armed forces is reprehensible. this is a serious violation of international human rights law and the un convention on the rights of the child, which the country has ratified. somalia is also experiencing one of the world's longest-running humanitarian crises, which requires improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups and addressing the problems of displacement, food insecurity, epidemics and natural disasters. i call on the somali authorities to strengthen their efforts to protect human and civil rights and to reform the justice and security sectors. the peace and reconciliation process in somalia must continue to be supported by all the international actors involved in order to help build the stability of the country. recruitment and use of children by security forces, armed groups and terrorists is a violation of the law and those responsible for recruiting children must be held accountable.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on burundi (2018/2785 ((rsp)). first, i have the following message for you. the 27 minutes scheduled for the high representative's speech and the member's speech, excluding the blue card and catch-the-eye, 27 minutes, which means we would be finished 4 minutes before 12:00. there's a vote at noon. i'm addressing you. no blue card. i know. no catch-the-eye. i'm not going to do that. because the last five minutes is the entrance to the room, so our debate is also very limited. and also a request for a very strict adherence to the time regime.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as all the speakers have pointed out, this is a very difficult month for the people of burundi, with more violence inflicted on a population that has already suffered too much. in april, the council assessed that there was no reason to change its decision on appropriate measures, as per article 96 of the cotonou agreement. this means that, although we continue to support the people of burundi through partners on the ground – and i want to reassure you on that point – we have suspended direct financial support to the administration of burundi. the country remains the only one to have effectively withdrawn from the international criminal court, as some of the speakers pointed out, and this decision has come together with a deterioration of the situation in the country. on 17 may, a constitutional referendum was held in a climate of intimidation and repression. political freedoms are being disregarded. arbitrary arrests and extra-judicial executions have become common, a situation that we had already denounced before the vote, and we have also called on the authorities of the country to respect the spirit and the letter of the arusha peace agreement. last week, on 27 june, the commission of inquiry on burundi briefed the un human rights council in advance of the submission of its final report in september and, according to the commission, the ruling party’s youth wing bore the main responsibility for human rights violations during the referendum campaign, with the complicity or approval of state officials. after the referendum, the president indicated that he would not run for the post again in 2020, after 15 years in office. but the announcement, as some of you mentioned very clearly, will need to be followed by an opening of political and public space. the next important political step would be an inclusive dialogue focused on delivering credible elections in 2020. i agree with those of you who underlined the key role of regional players in mediating and facilitating this process, and we give them all our support. back in 2000, the arusha agreement gave hope not only to burundi but also to the entire region, and it is urgent now to go back to the spirit of that agreement and to preserve the country as an inclusive and democratic home for all its people. it is what we will continue to work for, together with the united nations, the african union and the east african community. let me answer specifically two questions that were raised. nina gill asked about our humanitarian aid, focusing mainly on the refugee response. it has amounted to about eur 8 million in the course of this year, with relatively limited humanitarian support within burundi and the major effort outside the country, for refugees.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2018. (the sitting was suspended at 11.56 a.m. pending the vote.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! the report of the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly contains many interesting and important points. but there were also some that absolutely shouldn't be there. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children. it is also unacceptable that the protection of religious minorities is equated with the protection of lgbti persons in recital l. that is why i voted against this report.
mr. chairman, i voted in favor of this resolution. we often discuss the tragic situation in venezuela in this house, and unfortunately the debate is always the same. the dictator there, president maduro, is not respecting the calls of the international community to end his socialist dictatorship or at least to care more about his people in some way. it is clear that the huge humanitarian crisis that continues with the departure of tens of thousands of people from this country will continue and we should be active in this matter, helping colombia, which receives the largest number of refugees from venezuela, but also trying to help economically, but mainly financially, the people suffering in venezuela today. unfortunately, the big problem is the situation of children who die because they don't have medicine. so our effort should be to be proactive and help this country in a humanitarian crisis.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for this resolution because i see the dramatic situation in venezuela, which the authorities describe as socialist. in this country, as a colleague said, children are dying, there is no medicine, no food, no water. people are starving, too. during the debate in the european parliament, the commissioner declared an additional €10 million to help the people of venezuela. i have called for and i call again for this aid to be increased even more. it is essential that we urgently provide substantial humanitarian aid and that we put into effect the measures that the commissioner has mentioned. and this should be done either by the european union itself directly or through caritas, whose help the present venezuelan authorities accept.
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, today we are here – not too numerous i have to say, unfortunately – for all the women in pakistan killed or abused simply because they wanted to choose who to love or how to pray. the story of asma is only one of too many tragic stories coming from pakistan – and let me say, not only from pakistan but these stories of abuses on religious minorities happen everywhere in the world, including potentially in europe. we have to remember about human rights and human dignity, also within our borders. at the same time, pakistan’s recent history tells us that change is possible and is happening. laws can change and even culture can change. it takes the courage of women and men who are challenging the status quo – people who want pakistan to be a better place, not just for women and minorities but for all its people. we all know the names of malala or asia bibi, but there are also many more unknown stories of brave people who are helping pakistan turn the page. it is thanks to these people that change is happening – slowly and still in a limited manner but is happening today. according to data provided by ngos, acid attacks in pakistan went down by 50% in the last three years and this is happening thanks to new laws that were introduced to protect women and victims, but it is also happening because of the relentless work of pakistani civil society. i am proud that the european union has supported, is supporting and will continue to support this work. we’re working with civil society organisations that provide specialised medical support to the victims of acid attacks, and we have supported better legislation against these crimes. these may sound like small steps, but they tell us that progress is possible, change is possible and that engagement pays off. also on the rights of minorities, some important initiatives have been put in place. in the punjab and sindh provinces new actions have been taken to protect places of worship of non—muslim religious communities. a nationwide debate has started on how to prevent false allegations of blasphemy. there is still too much violence against religious minorities in pakistan, it’s true, but there are also many daily stories of coexistence. and let me add that the decision by pope francis to name the archbishop of karachi as a cardinal points precisely in this direction. we must invest in dialogue and coexistence, even more so in times when others invest in division and segregation. we, as the european union, are trying to accompany and incentivise all progress in the condition of women and minorities in pakistan. we always raise these issues in the eu—pakistan joint commission and in the subgroup on governance and human rights. human rights are also a fundamental part of the monitoring process that we carry out in the context of our generalised scheme of preferences, the gsp+. the european commission presented its second biannual gsp+ report to parliament and the council in january and the report also includes an assessment on pakistan. the next sessions of both the eu—pakistan joint commission and the gsp+ monitoring mechanism are foreseen for next autumn, and our special envoy for freedom of religion and of belief was also recently in the country. as a consequence of our engagement, the government of pakistan has committed to strengthening human rights institutions and human rights awareness. on top of our diplomatic work, we are engaged on the ground. i’ve mentioned our support for ngos, but beyond that we use our support for the pakistani economy to empower women and girls across the country. let me give just one example: one of the main development programmes we are running in pakistan, in the sindh province, relies exclusively on women and women groups for its implementation. this is empowering women. the main objective of the programme is poverty reduction. we’re working with 750 000 poor households to lift out of poverty at least 30% of them, and we’re doing so working with women, helping them to get a job and raising their position within their communities. we’re also engaged in increasing the number of girls who enrol in quality primary education. we have invested 210 million on education in pakistan over a seven—year period. this is also investing in women and girls’ rights and empowering women. but this debate also coincides with a particularly important moment in pakistan’s democratic life. general elections will be held on the 25th of this month, of july, and they can and should lead to a second consecutive democratic transition of an elected civilian government, which would be unprecedented in the country’s history, and improving women’s participation has become one of the major issues in the upcoming elections and various measures have been developed to this goal. so in a moment like this, i believe we have a duty to engage even more closely with pakistan. only through dialogue and engagement can we make a difference to the life of pakistani women, all of them. the gsp+ scheme provides us with an efficient and indispensable tool in this regard as a complement to our diplomatic action and to our development aid. pressure and dialogue can only go hand—in—hand. so our work with the people of pakistan can lead to a country where no person is killed for their love or their faith. it is a realistic goal and i thank you for your engagement to make it happen together with us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. open doors' analysis shows that 215 million christians are at risk of persecution in countries such as pakistan, north korea, afghanistan, sudan, iran, iraq, yemen and eritrea. according to ordo iuris, repression is taking place in 128 countries. in islamic pakistan, christians make up about 2% of the 160 million pakistanis. they're the poorest of the poor. they're denied access to education, jobs, property. they're persecuted, tortured, imprisoned, which happens about a thousand times a year. despite the law granting minorities some degree of religious freedom, about 700 girls are abducted and forced into marriage and conversion to islam every year, leading to the elimination of christians in pakistan, where women in particular are raped and burned. asma yacoob, a christian woman, died in the hospital. one example is asia bibi, who has been imprisoned for years, and who, like many other christians, has been wrongly accused of blasphemy against the koran, which can result in imprisonment or even death. as attacks on christian churches are becoming more frequent, questions about the protection of human rights and christian minorities are becoming relevant, and not only in pakistan, where the latest report of the institute for religious freedom in pakistan has identified the problem as critical. the union has many opportunities, not only through resolutions, interpellations or other interventions, especially since the problem of persecution of christians seems to be underestimated in the international arena. there is a need for solidarity, for political measures, especially as persecution may threaten the once christian europe, not only because of migration, but because of the predominance of forces - to put it mildly - unwilling to accept christianity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, islam is a pluralistic state. it's a state where public opinion is functioning. it's a democratic country. we shouldn't make judgments about islam based on extremist terrorist groups or multicultural correctness. the real picture of the sociology of islam is countries like pakistan. and that's why our foreign policy should be very clear to pakistan that it's, for example, that asia bibi is in prison, it's an image of islam for europe. because this is not happening because of a bunch of terrorists locking someone in a basement. it happens with social approval. moreover, the noble people, the politicians in pakistan who wanted to guarantee her freedom, were met with warnings. it's not like society's gonna let her out of jail. our diplomats should speak out: don't build a bad image of your civilization, of your religion. freedom for asi bibi! freedom for asi bibi! what are you doing?
mr. chairman, please! you are appealing to the president to defend freedom of speech, but i remind you that the person who is leading this parliament has been convicted of violating freedom of speech. she violated the freedom of speech of the polish mp, and she said that she was not interested in this sentence, here in this room a few months ago i am talking about you, mr. president tajani. you said you had no interest in the strasbourg court's ruling and you would not agree to statements you disapprove of. the polish member of parliament has been punished for his speech in this chamber, and it cannot be that our institutions are headed by a convicted person who we know has broken the law, especially since this parliament wants to teach the whole world what the rule of law and democracy should look like. i demand that mr. tajani resign. mr. tajani and ms. garcía pérez should be served with a summons, because she was the first to call here to impose this penalty. you violated the bill of rights, and no one can be held accountable.
mr. chairman, please! in the european council, in the case of article 7 proceedings, each state may express its views in accordance with the convictions of its citizens, in accordance with the position of its government. i think that under no circumstances should we put pressure on austria, which should be holding the presidency impartially, to anticipate in any way the vote in the european council, which i hope will not take place, or to encourage parliament to take any position against one of the member states of the european union. i'm really tired of us being in this room together.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am glad to join you on the eve of your final vote on the regulation providing the european solidarity corps with a dedicated legal base. i want to express my thanks for the great dedication with which parliament has handled this file. my particular thanks go to the rapporteur, ms trüpel, and her shadow rapporteurs. for the commission, the proposal to create a european solidarity corps is a major component of our commitment to invest in young people. together with erasmus+ the solidarity corps will be instrumental in creating new opportunities for young people – opportunities to learn, to engage for causes important to them, to support others and to help us build a resilient cohesive europe for the future. most importantly, the european solidarity corps can offer young people the chance to experience what it feels like to be european. at a time of rising discord and widening cultural gaps between countries and even within communities, this is more important than ever. the solidarity corps also shows how europe can act and take responsibility. together with parliament and council we have moved swiftly to make it a reality. now we have the duty not to disappoint the many young people who have come forward to join the corps. more than 75 000 young people have already registered in the european solidarity corps portal and over 8 000 have started their activities on the ground, and the numbers keep rising. with the new regulation, and the budget which goes with it, we will be able to offer solidarity opportunities to 100 000 young people by 2020. but the new regulation you will be voting on tomorrow only covers the years up to 2020. sending a strong signal to europe’s young people, the commission has proposed to strengthen and further expand the european solidarity corps in the next long-term eu budget from 2021 to 2027. we want to consolidate and build on what we already have during this period, with one important novelty: we propose to also support volunteering for humanitarian aid operations. this can be the start of creating a truly global volunteering community. the european solidarity corps is a flagship project for europe’s youth. it therefore needs ambitious funding. that is why we have proposed to raise the budget to eur 1.26 billion over the seven years. this will enable us to offer 350 000 solidarity opportunities by 2027. i count on the support of this house, and especially of the rapporteur, ms šojdrová. let us work together to make sure we find a swift agreement on how to develop the corps for the future. young people have a crucial role in building the future. with next year’s european parliament elections coming closer, further strengthening the european solidarity corps will send an important signal that we are putting that future in their hands. thank you again for your support.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am pleased that the interinstitutional negotiations have resulted in an agreement on this important project. i think we all agree that it's very important for the good functioning of society to foster pro-social attitudes, empathy and a sense of solidarity. i am convinced that the european solidarity corps can soon become one of the eu's most important tools for promoting these values among young people. however, the european solidarity corps is not only volunteering, but also internships and employment in areas related to the idea of solidarity. as the draftsman for this project in the employment committee, i supported this proposal from the outset and i am glad that this pillar was also retained in the final agreement. many european union countries still have high levels of youth unemployment, and i believe that any new career opportunity and any additional job is worth its weight in gold.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture, i should like to present the main points of our position. we have drawn attention, among other things, to the need to target the project more strongly on young people from rural areas, who usually have difficulty accessing such initiatives. the rapporteur has spoken about this. we emphasised the importance of training, which we felt should be an integral part of the project and an opportunity to exchange best practice in agriculture and rural development. we also proposed to increase the financial component for traineeships and employment from 20% to 25% and we expressed the view that volunteering should not be a substitute for paid work. finally, we pointed out that if funds from other union policies are used for the corpus, they should reflect the objectives of the original budget line. the european solidarity corps provides an opportunity to strengthen young people's commitment to the european project and to provide them with valuable skills and experience that will be useful in the labour market.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i'm not gonna lie to you, this program hasn't been easy. first, there was a lack of legal basis at the outset, which the cultural committee had to contend with for more than six months. second, the collection of these funds has been carried out all along with a great deal of uncertainty about the programme, which was still in operation at the time. fortunately, it all worked out, and we have a 20 percent increase in funding for youth volunteerism, and i'm very happy about that. we managed to reach a certain consensus among the various political forces in the committee so that the programme was well defined, well described and also well promoted, because it is important that young people simply know about it, that they can benefit from it. i would like to conclude by saying one thing, one point: we must set out as soon as possible a new budget line, new financial conditions for the next period, and this is very, very urgent.
mr president, cohesion policy is one of the most important. we have many priorities in cohesion policy, and i share both the critical and the positive comments. what i am most pleased about in these declarations that have come out recently is that between 2018 and 2021 there will be the first real monitoring of the impact of the funds spent under this priority, and i have to say that i was surprised that there has not been such precise, accurate monitoring until now. i would like to stress once again that it is very good that parliament will be informed of the effects of the expenditure on this priority over the next three years.
mr. chairman, please! it welcomes the broad consensus on the appropriateness of the financial resources allocated to the northern ireland situation. i have to say that i welcome that, but what worries me is that this is another perspective that has come up in the last few voices in this debate in this discussion, related of course to brexit. brexit is a serious threat to northern ireland. it is worthwhile, on this occasion, to take note of what we have achieved so far, and to try to apply a certain recipe for the coming future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
good evening, and welcome to the club. welcome to the family, especially after the holidays. i understand you're all very eager to get to work. the court of auditors
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament and, of course, the rapporteur for this excellent report and for keeping this topic high on the agenda. unfortunately sexual harassment and mobbing are an unacceptable, yet widespread, form of behaviour in our european society. as has been said, we know this happens everywhere: at work, in schools and universities, on the street, in public transport, online, at festivals and at sport and other events. the world woke up last year with the ‘me too’ movement and it was literally a wake—up call. people finally saw the huge extent of sexism, harassment, abuse and violence that women and girls are facing every day in society. around half of the women in the european union experience verbal, physical or online sexual harassment. in the case of women in higher management or professional occupations, such as lawyers and doctors, the proportion balloons to 75%. we have to change the perception in our societies that harassing a woman is normal, acceptable behaviour. we all have this responsibility, whether we are politicians, police officers, teachers, employees or operators of internet platforms. women should not feel that it is unsafe for them to travel, to go to work, to be out in the street or to be active online. how many of you are ready to go on foot to your hotels tonight when we finish at 11 o’clock? i do not feel safe doing so even though it would be healthy. having said this, it is worth reminding you that our efforts to end violence and harassment against women have not just started recently. more than 20 years ago, parliament was instrumental when we set up the daphne programme. besides, we have been working for decades in the european union to develop legislation, policy and concrete grassroots actions to prevent violence and to support victims. we have to continue on this path, which includes the european union’s signing of the istanbul convention last year and the current process of conclusion. having been a member of the european parliament for eight years, and now a commissioner for three years, i can tell you that this journey is slow and long. we in the commission are working closely with the council towards eu accession to the convention, but we really call on those member states which have not yet ratified it to proceed to do so without further delay. to conclude, i would like to mention that the commission has had an anti—harassment policy in place since 2006. it combines prevention and information to all staff, as well as training, with reactive measures to deal with the situation of workplace conflict and harassment. i want to reiterate that the commission is fully committed to the fight against all forms of gender—based violence, including sexual harassment. let me be very clear: even a single case of harassment will always be one case too many. thank you for your attention and for your hard work. hopefully, our daughters, our nieces and we ourselves will be safer from now on.
thank you very much, commissioner. please stay with us, we need you for the next item. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by brian hayes, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on eu-third country relations in the regulation and supervision of financial services (2017/2253 (ini)) (a8-0263/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank rapporteur hayes for his report on this work. i welcome the large consensus among political groups. indeed, it is in our interests to have robust international cooperation, matching cross—border business activity in this area. of course, it increases competition, consumer and investor protection and accelerates innovation in the sector and it helps public authorities ensure financial viability in the european union. you know very well, honourable members, that the european union financial system is a very open to financial service providers from many parts of the world. the european union has adopted more than two hundred positive decisions in financial services, covering more than thirty non—eu jurisdictions. you know that that the equivalence process requires that we look at each third country in a regulatory and supervisory framework separately, sector by sector, and we do this in a proportionate and risk—sensitive manner. in this respect i welcome that the report confirms that the equivalence is the most suitable and flexible tool for relations with third countries in financial services. of course, it is not perfect, but compared to other alternatives, equivalence preserves the autonomy of eu decision—making and provides powerful incentives for regulatory and supervisory cooperation at international level. the commission agrees with the report in the same areas. the european union framework for third—country equivalence should be further enhanced. in this regard, a number of important proposals were adopted last year. for example, the proposal to amend the european market infrastructure regulation differentiates between the treatment of systematically important third—country centre counterparties and the treatment of non—systematically important ones. the proposal also shows in which circumstances we would need to go beyond equivalence as a last resort. finally, we propose to clarify the role of the european supervisory authorities in preparing equivalence decisions. we also propose that these authorities assume greater responsibility for monitoring the situation in third countries on with the commission has taken an equivalence decision. now regarding transparency, the commission agrees that the transparency of the process for granting equivalence can be improved. over the past three years, we have sought to raise transparency and awareness. for example, in february 2017, we published a staff document to explain our approach. the commission is ready to come to the parliament and keep its members closely informed. besides, in some of our latest proposals we have put forward the possibility for parliament and the council to play a more prominent role in equivalence policy by scrutinising delegating acts which set out detailed equivalence criteria to be applied to the commission. lastly, the commission agrees that equivalence will play an important role in shaping the european union’s regulatory and economic relations with the uk once it has become a third country. let me conclude by welcoming once again, the work of all of you and the work of the european parliament. the commission now, of course, counts on parliament and the council, as co—legislators, to continue moving as swiftly as possible in the coming months to adopt the on-going proposal. thank you very much for your attention and for your work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mrs jill evans, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on language equality in the digital age (2018/2028 (ini)) (a8-0228/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the parliament for the impressive work done for the initiative on language equality in the digital age and for the enriching views expressed by you, its members. the report comes at a time when digital technologies are transforming our society and economy at an unprecedented pace, offering opportunities but also revealing barriers to multilingualism and language equality in the digital age. in highlighting the complexity brought about by language diversity and the fundamental importance of language technologies on the road to achieving language equality, the report provides food for thought for developing future actions. language technologies are an essential component of any digital device or service we use nowadays. continuous research, innovation and deployment in the area of language technologies can therefore bring us closer and closer towards multilingualism at an acceptable cost. ensuring appropriate technological support for all european languages will also create jobs, growth and opportunities in the digital single market. it will enhance the quality of public services, and reinforce a stronger sense of unity and belonging throughout europe. eu funding has already led to a number of results. for example, in the moses machine translations system, an open research result that has been taken up by the commission for its in—house system or the modern machine translation project which developed a neural system that automatically improves translations. to leverage the achievements, under the next multiannual financial framework (mff), we will need to reinforce funding, research and education actions. the commission has therefore submitted programme proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, seeking funding to continue its work towards technology enabled language equality. overall, i would like to remind you that the commission is committed to working towards an inclusive union offering seamless access to digital services, products and content, irrespective of language or location. union citizens, businesses and public administrations can enjoy the right to access such services, products and content without discrimination based on language. i think it is also very important to say that we are focusing on the exchange of good practice in the policy recommendation, as well as funding programmes such as erasmus+ and creative europe. the commission has also confirmed the actions of the council of europe’s european centre for modern languages, aimed, among other things, at supporting teachers working with children from different linguistic backgrounds. finally, the commission raised awareness of the importance of language learning through public events like the european day of languages on 26 september and the national awards of the european language label for innovative language learning projects. to conclude, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms evans, once again for her valuable work. we share the view that overcoming language barriers in the digital environment is essential for an inclusive society, a vibrant digital single market and for unity in diversity.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on development, on the transparency and accountability of natural resources in developing countries: the issue of forests (2018/2003 (ini)) (a8-0249/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes this opportunity today to discuss the challenges forests face in a global context of increased pressure on natural resources. the commission welcomes the report and warmly thanks the rapporteur, vice-president heidi hautala, for the excellent work undertaken. forests are nature’s most generous renewable resources. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the new european consensus on development have reaffirmed the urgency to tackle illegal and unsustainable exploitation of forests by supporting better governance. in this endeavour, transparency and accountability – two elements highlighted by this report –show a way forward. as far as the commission is concerned, we are strongly committed to tackling illegal logging and trade, and promoting good governance in the forestry sector. through the eu flagship initiative the forest law-enforcement, governance and trade action plan, we have put forward a comprehensive toolkit to tackle both the illegal production of timber and its consumption. this year marks the first 15 years, so let me briefly recall the significant achievements of the forest action plan. a key element is the new timber regulation. i am pleased to confirm that after more than five years of implementation, there is steady progress in its enforcement. in 2009, the eu concluded its first voluntary partnership agreement with ghana. as of today, we count 15 agreements, and we recently initiated an agreement with honduras, and we hope to close this year with guyana and vietnam. voluntary partnership agreements have been the cornerstone of the forest action plan. an important proof of this is indonesia which in november 2016 became the first country to export timber to the eu that was licensed through the action plan. since then, indonesia has issued close to 40 000 licenses with a total value of more than usd 1 billion. that is about 25% of tropical timber imports into the european union. forest law-enforcement, governance and trade and licensing are a significant milestone yet it is only the end of a long journey that involves overall governance improvement, as we see in ghana. and, most importantly the benefits go beyond forests, contributing to larger eu initiatives such as the protection of indigenous people’s rights and environmental defenders. the forest law-enforcement, governance and trade initiative owes part of its success to the engagement of the private sector as you have already said. new alliances are necessary, including with big consumer countries, especially china, and with financial institutions. the commission is currently concluding the forest law-enforcement, governance and trade work plan for the period 2018-2022, and the european union has also included environmental crime linked to forests in the priorities of its overall fight against organised crime for 2018-2021. in the end, i would like to say that the commission hears your call for more measures to halt deforestations. the eu is already doing a lot through the forest flagship initiative i just mentioned, through the mechanism of the reduced emissions from deforestation and degradation. we will draw the lessons but more needs to be done. deforestation is a complex matter requiring a specific approach that involves all the relevant stakeholders, not least in partner countries. we therefore intend to pursue a high level of ambition in the next multiannual financial framework, including through our broad neighbourhood development and international cooperation instruments. it will seek to mainstream environmental protection in a geographical pillar and complement this by targeted thematic actions on sustainable forest management, illegal logging and conflict timber. we look forward to your support.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr krzysztof hetman, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on enhancing economic growth and cohesion in eu border regions (2018/2054 (ini)) (a8-0266/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the internal border regions of the european union account for 40% of its territory and are home to over 150 million people. unfortunately, they still face a number of specific problems that make them worse off than regions within countries. their economic potential is not fully exploited. i am pleased that the european commission has recognised this problem and has carried out a study of these legal and administrative barriers and a public consultation, which has resulted in a communication on boosting growth and cohesion in the european union's border regions identifying the ten main obstacles and proposing solutions to these problems. however, i would like to emphasise that i consider it particularly important to carry out a similar review for the external border regions. we must remember that the solutions proposed in the review under discussion cannot in many cases be simply transferred to these regions. this is because of their very different characteristics, such as the absence of the schengen area, the non-participation in the common market and many others. i would therefore ask the commission to prepare a separate analysis for both the outermost regions and the maritime regions. i am convinced that the most powerful tool for overcoming the development burden on border regions is mutual trust and the political will of all the relevant authorities, including especially local and regional authorities. this requires both flexibility and, sometimes, specific regulation to ensure consistency between different legal systems, as often even the same directive is transposed differently in two neighbouring countries. it should therefore be stressed that a number of pressing issues require more targeted and intensive action at both member state and european union level, which will allow local authorities to work together more effectively. crossborder workers must have recognised qualifications and must be well informed of their social security rights. barriers for cross-border businesses should also be removed, as companies operating cross-border currently have costs that are 60% higher than those operating within a single country. i would like to draw attention to the enormously positive role that the european territorial cooperation programmes have played in overcoming these barriers. i would like to express my full support for their continuation and even strengthening beyond 2021. interreg is a programme that, through its 'hands-on' approach, has proven its effectiveness in establishing cooperation in areas such as health, education, the environment and trust-building between local communities on both sides of the border. while appreciating the role of the crossborder cooperation programme, i would also like to draw attention to the possibly untapped potential of european territorial cooperation groupings. i am convinced that this instrument will enable us to overcome many of the problems that border regions are facing today. i also believe that we should be bold in deepening crossborder cooperation, and i therefore believe that it is necessary and justified to strengthen new tools for managing crossborder cooperation. finally, i would like to say that i am pleased that the commission has set up a coordination point for crossborder cases. i believe it will be an effective tool for national and regional authorities to deal with legal and administrative obstacles at the borders.
member of the commission. thank you very much for this debate. it's a subject that's very close to my heart. a lot has been said here, but beyond the benefits of cross-border cooperation in terms of job creation, economic growth, in terms of development opportunities, i also see another role of cross-border cooperation more important than anything, that of healing the wounds that we still have on the map of the european union, on the map of our continent. we started the debate this evening with the report on the benefits of cohesion policy in northern ireland, a very clear case in which we see how hard peace is to build and how easy it can be lost. in my almost four years as european commissioner for regional policy, i have visited many crossborder projects and i was very moved, for example, when i visited projects between poland and germany, between šlovice and frankfurt (oder), also between bratislava and lower austria and other projects around the borders, where almost 30 years ago so many thousands of people died in search of a better life. that is why we are doing everything we can and have done everything we can in this period to improve this cross-border cooperation, which sometimes goes very easily, despite the differences in language, and sometimes, as is the case between belgium and france, for example, although it is the same language, because the two countries do not agree to adopt a common legislation on cross-border cooperation, it is more difficult. i am also saddened to see how many cross-border projects are blocked because of the hubris of some states. after all, this interreg and cross-border cooperation programme was created to improve communication between people. it's september 2018, and a lot of cross-border cooperation projects between member states are stuck, the money is not being spent because the member states don't agree on what projects to spend that money on. i will continue in english. thank you very much for this enriching debate. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for this report and for what i see as a very positive approach towards the commission's initiative in favour of european border regions. i of course share this assessment of the situation faced by border regions and the call for continued attention to be paid to them. as i said, this is what the commission is doing. since the adoption of the communication on border regions in september last year, a number of concrete measures have already been initiated. i have in mind, in particular, the border focal point that was established in january 2018 and is now operational. it coordinates action between the commission services responsible, but also has a mission to liaise and interact with external stakeholders. this hands-on approach has been reinforced with the launch of online exchange platforms for border stakeholders and institutions, and we have also recently selected ten pilot projects to identify ways in which certain legal and administrative obstacles can be resolved. besides, we have been carrying out targeted work on specific crossborder issues, be it a recent study on missing rail links, a merging of crossborder healthcare or a regional border workshop for businesses and citizens. all this work mirrors the commission's commitment to ensuring that no region is left behind. it also underpinned our proposal for the next programming period. as you know, a new legal instrument to resolve border obstacles was proposed by the commission on 29 may 2018 and is currently being considered by member states and in parliament in the relevant committees. the draft proposals for the interreg programmes post2020 also contain elements that will facilitate the prevention and lifting of border obstacles. notably, it is proposed that each crossborder cooperation programme devote at least 15% of its budget to institutional cooperation, including the resolution of legal and administrative issues. member states will, of course, continue to have a strong role to play in this process. the commission will support them in their endeavour to improve the socio-economic development of their border regions by making good practices widely available and by ensuring that future cross-border cooperation programmes are tailored to the specific needs of border regions. to conclude, allow me to make a specific call both to the council and to you, the european parliament. i know you were working very hard on our budgetary proposal over the summer, but it's crucial to progress as quickly as possible. indeed, the future generation of crossborder programmes and the new legal instrument to resolve border obstacles are crucial to further growth and cohesion in our internal border region. thank you very much for having this important subject on our agenda. hopefully we will have the multiannual financial framework as soon as possible in order to be able to start the implementation of the programmes from the first day of the new programming period, from 1 january 2021. we should draw from the lesson that we have now of all the operational programmes in the project being so delayed due to the late adoption of the legislation for the programming period 20142020.
thank you, commissioner, for the hours you've spent with us. if you'd like to stay with us, please. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! one of the most basic forms of prevention of many diseases is hand washing with warm running water and soap. in the european parliament, since july 2016, when i became an mep again, there is no hot water in the tap, although there are instructions in the toilets on how to wash your hands. given that people work and live in the parliament not only from all over europe but even from different parts of the world, and even assuming that everyone is healthy, they can still be carriers of various diseases. in addition, the toilet workers also wash the dishes in cold water, which is contrary to basic prevention and a risk factor for the transmission of various diseases. at the beginning of the term, my term, i asked the vice president about the situation because the sanitation conditions had not changed. i repeat the question in the interest of the health of the workers and guests here.
mr. chairman, please! the centre for monitoring press freedom a polish public body composed of prominent journalistic authorities with a long history of great merit in defending media freedom, expressed its very serious concern about the discussion that took place in the belgian administrative council of rtbf belgian public television, on the removal of the broadcast of the catholic mass from public radio and television. the most disturbing reason for these statements is that on the last sunday of august, most catholic churches around the world read the fifth chapter of the letter to the ephesians, which contains the ideal of christian marriage. well, for these politicians who sit on the rtbf board of directors, it is irreconcilable with their gender criteria. it unfortunately shows how seriously freedom is threatened in many european countries today. i thank the polish journalists for defending her.
i'm closing this item of business.
mr. chairman, please! the cross-border review carried out for the years 2015-2017 has produced some very interesting insights. first of all, it showed the huge number of active citizens who live in the so-called border areas. and we have to remember that it's not just a question of defining these active people, including young people of course, who work in the clean economy sector, but very often it's also a question of the mobility of those who work in the creative industries. i think first of all that we need to take into account the barriers to the mobility of the artists themselves, especially the younger generation. they're the ones who have the most trouble, legal trouble, sometimes financial trouble, sometimes both. i am drawing attention to this because the report dealt with this matter only marginally.
mr. chairman, please! a good report, but i'll admit it was a painful one. i would like to point out to the commissioner the unacceptable way in which he has prepared the amendments on youth volunteering. i believe that the lack of a legal basis at the initial stage of the preparation of this report is not only questionable, but should mean that it is rejected at the initial stage of the procedure. luckily, it turns out the ending is good. we have adopted a report with specific new amounts, i will remind you of the 20% increase in funding for volunteering, especially for young people. we've created a new, broader program, better targeted. i would remind you that the way we worked on this project meant a loss of a year and threatened, in the event of a wrong decision by the commission or parliament, that we would not be able to finance volunteering in any form for some time. i'll remind you of that at the end of the warning.
mr. chairman, please! the european solidarity corps, or now the european voluntary solidarity service, is not only a beautiful idea, but also a socially, politically, european important programme, which has been tested in practice, for example, after the earthquake in italy in 2017. it is an idea and a programme that gives young people opportunities for volunteering and professional development. i am therefore pleased that compromises have been found which are triggering the resources to implement this programme. i'm sorry there was a problem, but all's well that ends well. i hope this project continues to work and develop well.
mr. chairman, please! i am against sexual harassment and mobbing, as is the rapporteur, but i abstained on the prevention measures because some of the proposed measures raise serious doubts. i don't agree with the idea that sexual harassment is connected to patriarchy, culture, tradition and religion. violence stems from human emotional and developmental immaturity and a lack of respect for the other person, and ending all forms of violence depends equally on men and women, who as parents and educators have the responsibility to provide moral and ethical role models. furthermore, the prevention of violence against any citizen is guaranteed by the criminal and family codes. in addition, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded gender equality programmes, in particular the implementation of the gender equality strategy. the commission should also seek to get a real picture of the problem of sexual harassment, especially in the context of the great wave of immigration in recent years.
mr president, i have endorsed this report because, from my point of view, any sexual harassment is unacceptable. but at this stage i do not think that there is a need to adopt a new directive or a new rule of european law. the report rightly states that we should put pressure on the individual member states to implement the legislation they have adopted to date. i think that the main problem is that not all member states are sufficiently applying the already existing european legal basis for combating harassment. i agree with the part of the material that talks about so-called soft measures, about the exchange of information between individual member states, about best practices in the fight against sexual violence. these are certainly areas where member states should cooperate much more, communicate much more and therefore act more effectively against sexual violence.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report. first of all, the very definition that is contained here speaks to the extent of the insanity that is being demonstrated here. sexual harassment is defined as any form of unwanted verbal, nonverbal or physical behavior of a sexual nature, the effect of which is to violate the dignity of a person, hostility, and so on. well, judgments, difficult to grasp in a legal framework, which can be the basis for a real investigation by people, arguing in court about anything, about nonsense. you can't regulate decency by law. it's crazy, this propaganda that's being poured out, this feminist, radical propaganda about patriarchy, about it being a form of violence. no, it's not a form of violence. harassment is not a form of violence, rape is a form of violence, and that's the difference. so these are two separate things, what is emerging is the really extreme feminist ideology that this parliament is pursuing and that is unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! i noticed a lot of interesting things in the debate. first of all, the number of languages covered by the various regulations is surprising to me 6000. and yes, in this group, we have about 25 percent of the languages that are also written languages. i want to emphasize two things, first, that europe can be a leader in embracing this positive technological diversity of languages. this is valuable, but on the other hand, taking care of languages through the use of technology can lead to their actual use. but to achieve the basic objectives, there are four other elements that i have noted. first, a decisive improvement in the institutional framework, i stress, is a very important task. secondly, new research policy strategies need to be developed. third, use education policy to ensure future language equality in the digital age, and lastly, increase support for private companies and public authorities to improve the use of language technologies.
mr. chairman, please! we all know that people have different boundaries. there are also various barriers between them, but one of the biggest barriers is the language barrier. it makes it difficult for people to connect, to relate, to understand each other, and ultimately to work together. so it affects political, private, public, social, and economic relationships. diversity in unity is the great strength of the european union, and it is worth highlighting this year too. so on the one hand, we should protect, treat all languages equally, not only national but also regional, local or vernacular, but on the other hand, it is precisely in the 21st century that we should use new technologies and technologies to make it easier for people to communicate and relate with new technology.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have a feeling that there is an overpowering tediousness in a debate like this one. it has been rehearsed so many times. nothing new. another instalment of an attack on their democratically elected governments. the fidesz government has had massive support for the last decade. you said it is not an attack on hungarian society, but on the hungarian government. well, somebody elected this government. it was not snow white and the seven dwarves. if you do not like it, just abolish the election and appoint somebody from outside to be the viceroy of hungary. i think mr timmermans will be more than willing to take the job. and after that you do that, do the same with poland. that will solve all the problems. the resolution that you have read – at least some of you must have read it – is so biased. to say it is biased is an understatement. it is exclusively based on the information from anti-fidesz groups, and the argument of the majority of the hungarians on the government has been simply ignored, and this is a regular practice here. this has been done in the case of poland too. the replies of the government had been thrown into the wastebasket. they are just not taken into account. take the case of the central european university. this school was established as a foreign institution with certain privileges, and the government wants to restrict these privileges. what’s wrong with that? it has nothing to do with teaching, research, academic freedom or freedom of thought. in many eu countries the function of foreign academic institutions is very restricted, far more restricted than the current hungarian law provides. why is it that you tolerate certain arrangements and certain practices in your own countries and you demand that the hungarians change their law? this is absolutely unacceptable. the good side of this is that all this entire spectacle is counter-productive. in my country after each spectacle – i cannot say ‘debate’ – of poland-bashing in the european parliament, the support for my government conspicuously increases. so i suspect the same will happen in hungary. so, prime minister orbán, it may very well be that the authors of this resolution are your unwitting or perhaps clandestine supporters.
mr president, prime minister, please! the author of this report opened our debate by asking the question of the state of the union. the union is in a state of decomposition, of crisis, because of demands like this one today, the demand to exclude hungary from the co-decision of european union affairs. if you look at the le monde of two or three days ago, there were two europeans: macron's europe and orban's europe. this is the picture of europe today, which you want to divide instead of unite. you're trying to stop the wind of history, because the wind of change is blowing through europe today, and that wind is blowing not just through the hungarian forest, but it's blowing from sweden to italy, and remember one thing: stalin may have been able to turn the rivers, but the wind cannot be stopped. these changes are coming and either we respect democracy and accept them and we will discuss with the nations who want to decide for themselves, or you will really turn decomposition into the complete destruction of the european union. we have enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union the values that unite us. you want to use these values as a tool of the thought police to divide europe, but europe still exists because europe is a union of our countries, not of your ideology.
mr president, prime minister, please! europe is a family of shared opportunities and values. we are creating it voluntarily in our part of europe, looking for better opportunities after the iron curtain years. i am concerned that in hungary there is no respect for the freedom of civil society organizations, because they are imposed with the same rigidity as in the dark days of communism, that laws are introduced that break good customs in helping others, because what is the penalisation of people who take care of those seeking refugee status, that academic freedom is undermined and conspiracy theories about institutions that support education are disseminated, that the language of simplification and hatred has supplanted the language of conversation and solidarity. all in the name of the majority winning the election, and in liberal democracy, the winning majorities care about the minorities, but for the leaders of hungary today, liberal democracy is the devil incarnate. the report under discussion is based on facts and objective analysis, and its authors need not be called the worst liars. maybe we should just accept the criticism and change our attitude. i remember my experience with fidesz in the late 1980s. i'd like to get back to the partnership. is that possible? is there just cold water left for hot populist heads by triggering article 7 of the treaty? go back to europe, my hungarian friends.
in writing. the idea of applying the article 7 procedure against hungary is wrong and unfair. the eu's actions are driven by political motives, not by the will to protect democracy and the rule of law. the initiation of this procedure is an aggressive reaction to hungarian policies and reforms that are not in line with the official policy of brussels. the european union therefore does not respect the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity. the parliament's report contains dozens of errors, and the vote on article 7 is a revenge for hungary's refusal to accept refugees. it is a form of blackmail to encourage migration against the will and opinion of the nation. this is just political fighting, using the institutions of the ec and other european institutions to brutally fight those who think differently, to fight political opponents. the launch of the article is a punishment for budapest's attitude towards the migration problem. i therefore strongly oppose the contents of the special report by mrs sargentini. the report is extremely extensive and contains many allegations without any real evidence of serious violations of democracy and the rule of law. i believe that its adoption could weaken the unity of the european union and therefore i vote against it.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr voss, and all the fictitious rapporteurs for their efforts to modernise the european copyright framework. this is a priority for the digital single market, this is a priority for this commission. since the commission put the proposal on the table exactly two years ago, as we all know, the discussions have been complex, sometimes difficult, but also subject to intense lobbying from all sides. we are now at a decisive stage. stakeholders and citizens all agree that copyright amendments are necessary. today's rules belong to a world that is past, a world that did not know high-speed internet, smartphones or social networks. with these new rules, europe aims to provide benefits to our citizens, our researchers, our teachers, our creators, our cultural heritage institutions, and all this in a balanced way. these new rules include a new exception on text and data mining, which is essential for european research and innovation. they also contain exceptions in favour of education. they will ensure the preservation of cultural heritage and the access to it by our citizens. finally, they improve the transparency of artists' remuneration. all these benefits for the cultural sectors and for our society are within reach. however, they will not be achieved any time soon unless the european parliament adopts a mandate tomorrow. i am aware of the intense debate on two provisions of our proposal, namely article 11 and article 13. in both cases, the objectives pursued are essential. article 11 aims to support quality journalism, which today faces significant challenges, while remaining indispensable in a pluralistic democracy. article 13 aims to ensure that creative content is consumed online and that this consumption is fairly remunerated. i would like to clarify the debate. the right of press editors is not a tax on links, nor an obstacle to access to information. this right clearly excludes hyperlinks from the new protection granted to press publishers, just as it does not change the scope of what is already protected by copyright. similarly, article 13 is not intended to create private censorship or an obstacle to freedom of expression. it aims to ensure that content creators have a say in whether and how their content is made available by platforms, and that they can have a fair share of the revenue generated by the use of that content. article 13 does not concern users and their ability to upload content; it shall in no way restrict the use of parodies; it doesn't ban memes or restrict free speech. finally, it contains robust mechanisms and safeguards to protect the rights of individual users. the commission's proposals are balanced, and among the many amendments received i see many that are intended to improve the commission's proposal without altering its spirit. none of the provisions currently under discussion will destroy the internet, none will stop wikipedia, none will destroy europe's cultural heritage. tomorrow's vote will be on the creative capacity of europe. a vote to open the trilogue will demonstrate that europe is capable of reforming copyright, and therefore of modernising our society and, ultimately, safeguarding our values and our democracy. i thank you for your attention and i look forward to the discussion that follows.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. we're trying to deal with a problem that looks like the squaring of a circle. how do we preserve the freedom of the internet and ensure that creators get their rights? i agree with mr. voss that the value gap is a real, serious problem. we need to create the right conditions for creators to create outstanding works of art in the digital age, to preserve and develop our cultural heritage. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. on the other hand, we cannot forget the rights of users, who are not only passive recipients of content, but also active creators and publishers of content - they are the creators of the internet in the first place. we need balanced solutions that will protect copyrighted content in a way that does not infringe upon the freedom of the rights of users. but as we know, our proposals have caused a lot of anxiety and protests. i think that we have not yet found a solution, and the proposed provisions seem too restrictive in many cases, both in article 3, article 11 and article 13, and that is why we have tabled a number of amendments.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe needs to adapt copyright to the digital world and new conditions for remunerating creators for their work. but copyright must be balanced with the rights of users, not introduced at their expense. key are the provisions of article 13 without the universality of content filtering, with procedures for users to appeal when their rights are violated by the excessive zeal of platform administrators, removing content just in case under the pressure of unclear regulations, even if they were to be restored in a moment. the damage then will be to the users in their sharing of the content. for the platforms, because they're going to be the masters of whether or not they break the law. and there's no benefit to the authors. the unnecessary rigidity of article 13 will limit innovation, the open internet, will not develop good quality journalism. we've made progress since july. there are proposals to amend article 13, to reconcile the needs of users and creators, to protect small digital businesses. let's embrace it and move forward!
on behalf of the s&d group. tomorrow's vote on the draft directive on the so-called copyright reform will be crucial for the functioning and development of the digital economy, but above all for internet users. i hope that after the holiday reflection, the members of the parliament will remove from the draft the unfavourable provisions for internet users that were included in the final text voted in the juri committee. as regards the controversial article 11, i support the concept of copyright assumption by publishers, rather than the introduction of a new related right without a proper impact analysis, which has not worked in germany or spain, where it has been tried. the presumption of law will facilitate publishers' enforcement of claims and at the same time allow the principle of the lawful use of the public domain to be respected without blocking access to information. the proposed new related law will not, as its proponents argue, improve the quality of the news or eliminate the so-called fakes, but will strengthen the position of large publishers by eliminating weaker, independent ones who cannot afford the so-called snippet. and the result is that the big guys become the monopolists, which i think, and i've been in parliament for almost 15 years, we've always tried to avoid in this house. many experts warn that this represents a clear threat to the viewer's ability to search for neutral content by limiting their choice, reducing media pluralism, threatening free speech on the internet. in the case of article 13, which is even more emotional, i do not agree with the automatic filtering of content posted by platform users, because it means in practice censorship of the internet. both the citizens and this parliament have already rejected the attempt to introduce such censorship in the infamous acta proposal. i therefore call for support for the compromise adopted by the imco committee, which has worked out a sensible, balanced solution and clarified the issue of the compatibility of the rules with the e-commerce directive, ensuring a balance of interests for both publishers and consumers.
mr. chairman, please! we should ask ourselves, before we vote, whether there are not enough films in the world, whether there is not enough music being made, whether people are flocking to the entertainment industry or fleeing from it, whether artists sometimes create profiles on youtube and other websites that, as they say, mercilessly exploit them. actions speak louder than words. if you ask any group of professionals whether they are not earning enough, the answer, of course, is that they should be earning more, that the poor world is taking advantage of their hard work and not rewarding them properly. but it seems that the benefits to artists of advertising on youtube outweigh the costs. they gain popularity, which they can then discount in other ways. so actions speak louder than words, we have enough movies. let's not fix something that's not broken, if it's not broken, don't fix it. and besides, i think mr. tajani should resign.
mr. chairman, please! intellectual property and copyright undoubtedly deserve protection at the european level. unfortunately, our debate has been focused for weeks on the profits of both sides of the argument. both the european commission and mr voss have lost sight of what should be at the top of the agenda, namely the needs and rights of internet users. it's hard to imagine today the functioning of free speech and public debate without the internet. the freedom to publish content and comment on it is a very important part of modern democracy. we cannot allow the big media companies to have a tool that, under the guise of copyright protection, can lead to censorship and the granting of freedom of speech. internet users cannot be treated as human shields by publishers, but they cannot be thrown to the swine of google and facebook by such regulations. we need a real compromise. the report by mr voss is certainly not one.
mr. chairman, please! the internet has given people the freedom to not have to listen and watch only what the tv and newspapers put in their heads. they can gain knowledge about the world and share their knowledge, but in doing so, the internet takes away the profits of the powerful owners of newspapers and television stations, and it also reduces the power of the government officials. this is the only reason for this directive. contrary to the false title, it's not about copyright, it's about protecting the profits and power of those who still have it. the thousands of beautiful words and the many obscuring amendments to this directive have one purpose: to obscure the meaning of articles 11 and 13, which introduce censorship and surveillance that did not exist even in the communist countries. if we adopt this directive, if you adopt this directive (because i will not vote for it), then you and your children will also be living in this orwellian world.
mr. chairman, please! the motto of the european union is 'united in diversity' and it is today that the protection of this cultural diversity should be at the heart of our debate. music and the arts are at the heart of european identity and culture, they reflect and underline our fundamental values and we must therefore do everything we can to protect them. as many have said, this directive has been surrounded by a lot of myths and fake news. it is not true that the european parliament wants to restrict citizens' access to creative works or censor content on the internet. it's not true that we ban memes or selfies with your favorite football player in the stadium. you will still be able to comment, share content that you like and that is very important to you. we just want to make sure that the hard work and effort that artists put into creating this content is properly compensated by those who illegally use it. there's a lot of talk in this house about fair pay for a fair day's work. does this not also apply to european musicians, composers, journalists, actors, publishers and filmmakers? i come from a sports community where fair play is the main slogan and the main rule, but when you're bombarded with tens of thousands of emails, often generated automatically, with all kinds of false information, including threats, it has nothing to do with fair play. i must say that i have never seen such a cynical campaign against the directive. we will protect european culture and identity, reach out to those who have no chance against the big platforms.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. technology is always a difficult subject, especially when we have to regulate technology. i think that there are three basic theses that we have to make clear in this problem. first, there can be no regulation or desire to block work on autonomous weapons systems in the finale. it would be detrimental to the security of europe, or, in short, of europeans. secondly, autonomous weapons systems must be subject to human control and this is something parliament will be consistently pushing for. thirdly, it is necessary to build a legal framework that leaves no doubt about not only the use but also the responsibility for the use of autonomous systems. in order for these conditions to be met, three objectives must be met: first, a good definition of autonomous weapons systems. secondly, the responsibility of man and thirdly... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at the recent sede meeting, its recognized independent experts, nato representatives, informed us that no western democracy has a lethal weapon that is fully autonomous, even remote controlled. in calling for a ban, we must be aware that such regulation can also be a tool for a certain kind of international manipulation, namely, the danger we anticipate, theoretically, primarily concerns authoritarian regimes, which by their nature are not likely to submit to the dictates of international law.
madam president! since president trump's election victory, european-american relations have indeed deteriorated, and there is a kind of rhetorical war, a war of words. i think that mature european policy should be characterised by calm and it would be wrong for the european parliament to continue this war of words, especially since european-american cooperation should go beyond the horizons not only of one term of the european parliament but also of one term of the president of the united states. it is good that the main message of this report is positive, but i would recommend that it be deleted from the text if it is a continuation of this unnecessary war, such as the european parliament's interest in who is the head of us intelligence or, as one of the speakers said, its attempt to influence the us elections. more peace, more strategic thinking.
madam president! we have no more important partner than the united states. this partner is on the one hand the guarantor of security partner in this security but what is very important and most serious is also the community that has built the information channels, the communication channels that are crucial from today's point of view. google, twitter, facebook are all products of the united states and europeans use them. we must remember today that this most important partner is building a situation in which there are unfortunately serious cracks in this glass. we must exercise a great deal of restraint in this matter and remember that this powerful, extremely important partner also requires a certain amount of empathy from us. i think we got it in this room. we have a pretty serious agreement about what these relationships should look like and how important they are, and that's a good negotiation.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. china is the second largest trading partner of the european union and the union is china's largest trading partner. the ambitious 'one belt, one road' initiative requires cooperation on the assumption that china will create an open platform that complies with market rules, eu and international standards. it is also important that the cooperation of the countries of central and eastern europe with china in the 16+1 format is transparent and does not undermine the cohesion of the union. in the context of eu-china relations, this year's decision by the chinese people's congress is a cause for concern. the abolition of the constitutional two-term mandate of the president of the people's republic of china has cemented his authority and increased the party organs' control over the state apparatus, reversed the process of structural change and may have a negative impact on the human rights situation and the rule of law.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is good that the draft resolution on eu-china relations draws attention to the persecution of christians in that country. paragraph r refers to restrictions on religious activities and groups, which are subject to increasing repression in china, and christians in both underground and state-sanctioned churches are targeted for persecution. that's the unfortunate truth of the diplomatically-charged language. if we look at many other paragraphs of our resolution - there are 92 - we see how often they begin by emphasising the eu-china comprehensive strategic partnership (e.g. paragraphs 1 and 2) and that china is the eu's second largest trading partner and the eu is china's largest trading partner. and if so, then we can really influence, not just through the wording of the resolution, mrs mogherini, our chinese partner to stop the shameful persecution of christians altogether.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! cooperation with china is both an opportunity and a challenge for the eu. first of all, it is the union's second largest trading partner. there is a steady increase in trade between the two partners, but the balance of trade is increasingly skewed in favour of china. however, there are many areas where cooperation could be mutually beneficial. beijing, through its presence in africa, afghanistan or pakistan, could help stabilize these areas and limit migration to europe. the eu and china could also work together to find solutions to global problems, such as climate change, in the face of washington's increasingly isolationist policies. however, there are many areas where this cooperation is no longer as smooth as it was. since 2008, china has acquired assets in europe worth more than eur 300 billion, demonstrating the scale of its presence in the union. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the union interest. the chinese public procurement market remains closed to european suppliers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the commission should take steps to develop, in cooperation with the member states and the european parliament, a common economic strategy for this country.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. after the last speaker, i'd like to return to the subject. the purpose of the regulation is to adapt the system for controlling crossborder cash flows within the european union to the requirements of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. cash flows are a favourite way for all types of criminals to transfer value and act for criminal purposes and it is very good that this initiative has been taken by the european commission and i also congratulate both rapporteurs ms delvaux and mr lopez aguilar for the preparation of this report. i believe that this report is necessary because it fills the gaps in the current system of control of cash flows. first, it also covers money sent by post or as goods, which has so far escaped the control of the tax authorities. secondly, the declarations related to the movement of these funds are mandatory. moreover, these declarations must now be systematically transmitted to the institutions responsible for financial control, the so-called financial investigation units. thirdly, there is the possibility of withholding sub-threshold amounts, i.e. those which do not exceed eur 10 000 but which can at the same time constitute financial resources. and finally, fourth, we have an expanded definition of money that includes gold and many other things, so i support this initiative and we will support this bill when we vote.
in writing. it is hard to disagree that better control of the flow of money between eu countries helps to combat international terrorism and can counteract so-called money laundering. in this respect, the current legislative initiative is very much needed - especially the extension of controls to travellers' cheques, bearer shares and gold. however, i support limiting controls of prepaid cards to anonymous (unregistered) prepaid cards only. it's a reasonable compromise between increasing supervisory restrictions and respecting civil liberties. i do not support the amendment to article 12 (4) which provides for the creation of a financial analysis unit at the initiative of the commission. i believe that this project should strengthen the activities and coordination of the national analytical units without introducing an additional harmonisation tool. i am not a fan of harmonising national penalties either; it would be better to set high minimum thresholds for this type of offence rather than fully harmonising them across the eu. i also agree with the rapporteur's diagnosis of the need for training for customs and other national authorities' staff on how to identify money laundering. it is also worth noting that our amendments have taken account of the problem of the processing and storage of personal data by setting maximum processing periods. in the final analysis, i believe that the text of the report deserves my support in the plenary vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it was a very interesting speech. i expect there will be more of a ‘summing-up speech’ and i was just wondering what the proportion will be between pluses and minuses. on the plus side, i would put the juncker plan which you mentioned en passant, which i think has been a success, but there is also a minus sign and the first thing that comes to mind is immigration and the demographic crisis. of course you did not cause it directly: it was chancellor merkel who opened the european borders, but you could have prevented her or at least tried to prevent her. i don’t know with what effect, but at least you could have. we can subscribe to the idea of strengthening european borders, but i think it is a somewhat belated proposal. we could have talked about it some time ago. instead, we spent a couple of years imposing a solution that was absurd from the very beginning: mandatory relocation. a lot of energy was spent on it, a lot of bad blood was shed, and the typical share of bullying and invectives were thrown around, but the real question that you should ask yourself and we should ask ourselves is: ‘is the european union in a better shape now than it was when you took office?’ and i think the answer is clear: no. with all due respect, president juncker, and all the successes that you had, no. there has never been a time in the history of european integration where europe was more disunited than it is now. you talked about unity; no, unity is no longer there. it doesn’t mean world war i or world war ii. until recently, integration was a one-way street; now it’s a two-way street. the number of people who are deeply dissatisfied with the european project is increasing. that’s why our colleagues– my colleagues, too – are somewhat nervous about the elections – because they do not know what will happen. they are afraid of a possible political earthquake and you cannot say that the european commission has no share in it and no responsibility – there is at least political responsibility. i mean, come on, there is some relation between cause and effect. it’s not the fact that there are so many people who have been antagonised, made angry, irritated, marginalised, bullied and rejected. the number is so high that you cannot neglect it and you cannot decline any responsibility for that. ‘ you’ not as a person, but ‘you’ as a chief of the important european institution. we have to roll back this process somehow. when you mentioned that you wanted to have qualified majority votes in more areas of policy, public life in europe, you are in for more trouble because that will petrify this system, in which some actors are equal and some are more equal than others and in which the decision-making process is extremely obscure. nobody knows who makes the decisions, and the division between north and south, east and west are still there. if you want to have more trouble, go along this path. this will be an extremely interesting situation after the election. to what extent will you be responsive to the signals? you are charming man, president juncker, and i love listening to you, but when you were talking today, i thought, ‘my god, we are living in two different worlds’. i wonder which one is the true one.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking president juncker for his speech and to say that i appreciate the pragmatic tone, the principle that it is better to be efficient in small things and careful in big things. unlike the socialists, who want the new jobs to be financed directly by the eu, i appreciate this pragmatism. but i lacked a clear commitment to building a competitive market, without blockades, to remove protectionism, which is based not only on populism, but much more broadly, to support small and medium-sized enterprises - that would be a very pragmatic approach. unlike mr farage, who spoke here three minutes ago, i am in favour of europe taking greater responsibility for defence policy than it has done so far. i'm looking at this trial very positively. europe should share responsibility with the united states in this area. but we need practical solidarity, we need to accompany this with a sense that europeans, that the european union will defend the security of eastern europe as much as southern europe and will not tolerate initiatives that are contrary to european security and european solidarity, such as nord stream 2. we need pragmatism and practical solidarity.
madam president! the state of the union will be revealed in the 2019 european elections. we'll hear it from the people, the voters at the ballot box, by voting or by not voting and by political signage. because the european union is not primarily about institutions, but about a sense of purpose, an expectation of tangible benefits and a view of the union as an opportunity rather than a source of problems. i believe that we can do a lot more in the nine months that remain to ensure that the verdict of the european sovereign 2019 is a vote of confidence, not a vote of mistrust, and that it is consistent with the optimistic diagnosis of president juncker, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks for his service to a united europe. we know what not to do -- not to make intrusive regulations that teach people how to live, that re-create the east-west or south-north divide. many people are interested in the multiannual budget - not all, because some prefer a small european budget - but many are interested in it as a confirmation of the european union's ability to act and the predictability of its financing. but trust or distrust is decided in the realm of broadly understood security, and that is the most important agenda for the next nine months.
in writing. i'm not a pessimist, but the picture presented in the state of the union is far from reality. president juncker spoke of solidarity, while ignoring the nord stream 2 project, which is treacherously breaking that solidarity. he spoke softly about syria, completely ignoring the question of responsibility for the genocide there, and was silent about russian aggression against ukraine, the occupation of georgia and moldova, the attacks in salisbury and the intensified espionage activities, or russian propaganda aimed at western societies and institutions. instead, he proposed qualified majority voting in certain areas of foreign policy. how can we talk about a common perception of threats when even in such a clear-cut time, the issues of real threats from the east in the most important speech are ignored in silence? i am also against the proposal to vote on tax matters by qualified majority.
in writing. speaking today in the debate on the state of the european union, i would like to recall the important motto that was supposed to illuminate this community: 'united in diversity'. in today's debate in strasbourg, commission president juncker also stressed that 'europe must speak with one voice'! the european reality is quite different! there are double standards everywhere! so the eurocrats are calling for the centralisation of europe, the creation of superstates, not a europe of homelands and a europe of nation states. after failing to force the forced relocation of refugees, they now want to punish financially for not accepting refugees, despite the guarantee of the sovereignty of individual eu countries. there are proposals to vote by qualified majority on foreign policy matters, which will only further divide europe. while stressing the importance of diversifying energy sources, the much-needed european solidarity is being buried at the bottom of the baltic sea by agreeing to the nord stream i and ii gas pipelines. unfortunately, there are many more examples to follow, so i will end with a question: quo vadis, europa?
in writing. the issue of modernising education is central to the debate on the state and future of the union. education must be given its rightful place on the political agenda at eu and national level. while education is a competence of the member states, we all have a responsibility for the future of europeans, and that future will depend on their knowledge, competence and skills. furthermore, the achievement of the union's economic and social objectives, as well as its competitiveness and sustainable development, are closely linked to high-quality education. we should make it a key objective to ensure equal access to quality education for all. secondly, it is necessary to harness the potential of new information and communication technologies and innovation to modernise teaching and learning. second, personalisation of education and improvement of the status of teachers should be the main objectives of education policy. finally, mr president, i would like to refer to the budgetary questions. i call on the member states to honour their commitments to invest in education, research and development. i also believe that these measures should be included in the national deficit calculation in order to encourage greater investment in the sector most important for the future of europeans, namely education.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, during the debate on the state of democracy and the rule of law in hungary, a scandalous thing happened: mp flanagan called prime minister orban a "trash". once again, you, the 'chief censor' who wanted to silence mp korwin-mikkem, did not react to this, or even apologise on behalf of this house to prime minister orban. i think it exposes your hypocrisy in this matter. i'm asking for clarification on whether congressman flanagan will be punished.
mr. chairman, please! i just want to inform the president that yesterday i sent a written request to the president to punish mp flanagan for calling prime minister orbán trash and mp ujheli for calling prime minister orbán goebbels.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the draft, despite the fact that it has been amended many times, because i believe that the proposed provisions of the directive may restrict, among other things, the freedom to publish content on the internet. in addition, its records can be used under the copyright umbrella for so-called preventive censorship. articles 3, 4, 12 and 13 are particularly controversial. the provisions of the directive may have a serious impact on the reduction of competitiveness and innovation, and may also have a disincentive effect on the market for new technologies, including the development of artificial intelligence, and on the increase in the cost of education. the creation of a robust licensing system and mechanisms for content filtering and controls can, however, lead to the filtering or censorship of inconvenient content.
madam president! i voted against this disgusting directive, or at least i voted to remove articles 13 and 11. unfortunately, parliament decided otherwise. i don't know if the mps who voted for this directive voted out of cowardice, or were bribed, or out of stupidity, but i promise one thing: i will do everything to make sure that the names of those mps who voted "no" are shared "so that netizens can thank them in the next election". i would also like to point out one thing: how disgusting such a double standard is. on the same day, today, we are voting against hungary, arguing that there is some kind of media censorship, and at the same time some of these people are voting for censorship for all european citizens and it is a hundred times bigger, the one that did not exist. i understand that, on average, people didn't understand this directive. it was written in a language that they couldn't understand. but the members had a duty to understand it and that's why - as i say - i don't know why they voted, but i'll try to make sure that people know who voted how.
mr. chairman, please! today, a colorful coalition of the proponents of this directive and the lobbyists who stood behind them won the day. the lobbyists are happy, but you have bought a long-term holiday ticket from the european parliament. you have set off an avalanche of euroscepticism that will sweep you - i hope - away in the next election, because you sided with the lobbyists against your own citizens. and those citizens will hold you accountable, and i'm going to try to help them do that. all those lobbying lunches and dinners last week will hopefully send you into a tizzy at the next election. and i also think that chairman tajani should resign.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against today's resolution on hungary and i want to say that it is not only the wording of this document that is controversial, but also the statements that were made in this chamber and that should never have been made. i do not think this resolution will have the desired effect. on the contrary, it will encourage the citizens of europe to vote against those who voted for it.
mr. chairman, please! this debate and all these attacks on hungary are obviously attacks on the unity of the european union, on the ability of our countries to work together, on our community of destiny, which we are called to be. but the debate also exposed the dire state of democracy in this parliament and in the european union in general. it's a very serious warning sign of the state we're really in. the introduction of some sort of parliamentary arithmetic, a way of counting votes that is designed to invalidate some of the votes that have been correctly cast in order to get the intended and correct result of the vote, is a practice known only to totalitarian states, because that's how authoritarian states have used their power. calling black white and white black or saying that the votes that were cast were not cast is unknown outside totalitarian states, unknown where the rule of law exists. high isbo! if these practices continue, we will destroy the remnants of authority of the institution we are supposed to represent.
mr. chairman, please! i say to you who voted for this resolution: you are hypocrites, you don't understand what democracy is. democracy is only good for you when you win, when the euro-friendly forces win, or those you favor. when you lose an election somewhere, you immediately cry that democracy is in danger. you don't understand what freedom of speech is, because when some left-wing mp asks for his tweets, you applaud him, but when you had to listen patiently to opinions you disagree with, which janusz korwin-mikke expressed, you wanted to punish him with fines and to this day you clap to chairman tajani, who says he would do the same again. for you, democracy is just a stick you use to beat those who disagree with you. yesterday, president timmermans said in a moment of candor that for him the charter of fundamental rights is more important than democracy, that democracy was good enough to adopt the charter of fundamental rights, but if he wanted to repeal it, then democracy no longer matters to him. so you're just going with the instrumental. and i also think that chairman tajani should resign.
mr. chairman, please! the report on eu-us relations is generally not very confrontational, but some of its provisions are unacceptable. for example, paragraph 5, where we express concern about the us approach to global problems and regional conflicts after the election of donald trump, certainly does not lead to real cooperation. the text of paragraph 39, in which we criticise the recent appointment of gina haspel as director of the central intelligence agency and express concern about her poor human rights record, is also unacceptable. i think that paragraph 38 is also inappropriate, because it refers to the comprehensive approach of the european union and the united states to combat terrorism. the european union has done little to combat terrorism, and the united states has borne almost all the brunt of the fight against terrorism. until now, the eu has been rather obstructive, even to the point of calling for a special committee on the cia. i therefore voted against this report.
mr. chairman, please! until recently, the transatlantic relationship was the foundation of everything that is most important in the world's cooperation, namely the values of our civilization, cooperation and economic growth, and therefore also social development, and finally international security. but it seems that the world as we know it is slowly passing into history. this is happening because of the current presidential administration in the united states. the examples include the unleashing of a trade war, attacks on the unity of the european union, the undermining of the functioning of nato, the un, and finally the wto, and of course the elimination of agreements on international trade and services and investment. but i believe it is in the interest of the european union and the united states, and of the entire democratic world, to get back on the path of global cooperation and engagement. there is no alternative to this solution in my view.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to recall that the social security systems modelled on the bismarck system developed in germany in the second half of the 19th century are the basis of the modern welfare state. however, due to the increasing life expectancy of the insured and demographic problems in many countries, these schemes increasingly require support from the budgets of individual member states. however, the steady increase in wages in the economy and, consequently, the increase in insurance contributions and the increase in the number of employees with a contract of employment from whom contributions are deducted mean that budgetary contributions to the pension system do not have to increase at all. a good example of this is my country, poland, where such subsidies have not been increased for two years. however, the most important element of future pension systems is a population policy that supports fertility, as this is the key factor that will ensure the efficiency of pension systems in individual member states in the long term. three years ago, poland also decided to support family-friendly policies, implementing the '500+ families' programme, to which it allocates around 1.5% of its gdp per year, which i would like to emphasise very strongly. i'm not going to let you do this. it would be desirable for the next financial perspective 2021-2027 to include the possibility for the european social fund to support such pro-family schemes in individual member states, as they are the basis for the viability of public pension systems in all member states.
madam president! this is an example of the destructive effect of government regulation. unfortunately, from what i can see, you don't fully understand the disaster you're bringing on us and on yourselves by maintaining this system. you don't understand the cause and effect, you don't understand where it came from. this is because since the introduction of the state pension system in the 19th century, people have lost the connection between having children and their own support in old age. and as long as you continue to maintain through state-guaranteed pensions the illusion that these two facts are not interdependent, there will be fewer and fewer people, more and more people to work for and those who no longer work, and fewer and fewer people working. it's gotten worse with the birth control pill, and in this house, there's widespread approval for both birth control and state pension plans. so you're sawing the branch you're sitting on, and that leads to inevitable disaster regardless of the various shifts in budgets and so on. people need to start seeing the connection between not having children and not having any support in their old age.
madam president! all experts and most meps agree that a stable and secure pension system needs to be diversified. we cannot create a good pension system unless it is based on at least two pillars: a strong public pillar and a strong private pillar. the public pillar should guarantee a minimum pension, while the private pillar should allow citizens to increase the benefits they will receive in the future. of course, especially in the case of the public pillar, the state should provide guarantees and adequate collateral for the contributions, investing them in a responsible, safe and sustainable way. today, union citizens need to be sure that the contributions they have paid will actually be paid to them in the form of secure pensions. we can't forget about educating young people about the importance of saving and securing their future for retirement. when planning for retirement, we should respond to the increasingly long lives of european union citizens. in this case, the specific nature of certain professions must of course be taken into account. finally, i would like to draw your attention to mobile workers. by promoting the mobility of workers, we must ensure that they have continuity of social security and the possibility of transferring rights acquired in different member states. this is very much in line with the current debate on the coordination of social security systems. social security must not be allowed to be fragmented. remember that the maintenance of 24 months in the home country's social security system provides security.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very subject of strengthening the public social security system. there were some comments that the title was ideological. well, no, the title is not ideological, the title is simply social. and it's not about the welfare state, which has different connotations. this is about a responsible state, and that is the key thing, in my opinion. we're here for a decent life. the last stage of a decent life is a decent pension, i.e. one that is guaranteed and secondly sufficient to survive. citizens save for retirement in different ways, it's true forced, but there were formulations that the public part is invalid. i come from a country where today's liberal chadese introduced a private insurance system in the late 1990s. a few years later, they were reinstated. the basis should therefore be a public, decent pension system. i would like to say to the commissioner: commissioner, i am in favour of the european pillar of social rights announced by the commission. reach for it. let's do something that's written there.
member of the commission. – madam president, i fully endorse what many of you have said in this debate. with the data protection package in application since may, we now need to ensure that the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies are fully equipped with an equally modernised data protection legal regime. this is important for the protection of the fundamental rights of anyone whose personal data is processed by eu institutions and agencies. i therefore encourage you to endorse this agreement tomorrow. on europol and the european public prosecutor’s office, there is a robust review clause which foresees that the commission will, by 1 may 2022, review the founding legal acts of both agencies. finally, the commission calls on the european data protection supervisor to ensure the monitoring and application of this regulation, as the enforcer of this regulation – its supervisory role, which has now been further strengthened – is of utmost importance for real practice.
in writing. – the proposal calls on the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies to adopt a high level of a protection of personal data, which is required from the private companies. i believe that this regulation along with gdpr will contribute to securing the fundamental rights of private persons in the digital environment. right to privacy has been a long term respected basic value, which should not be undermined by any means, in any context. retention of data about ethnic origin, religion, political orientation, health data, sexual life and other shall be banned. it is understandable that institutions, such as eurojust, europol and the european public prosecutor, are excluded from the scope of the regulation due to the specific nature of their work. however, europol and eurojust are currently subject of the same set of rules such as police authorities in the individual member states.
in writing. eu environmental policy helps to protect nature and to take care of people's health. unfortunately, the statistics are devastating: more than 8 million tons of plastic are entering our seas and oceans every year, and if this trend continues, there will be more plastic waste in the oceans than fish by 2050. the great pacific garbage patch weighs more than 43,000 cars and covers an area five times the size of poland. the waste is damaging marine life and plants, entering our digestive systems and causing a variety of diseases. we need to start with education and awareness raising for citizens that as we increase the amount of plastic we use every day, we are harming ourselves and the environment. i am pleased to see that a large part of society, as well as businesses and smes, are beginning to put emphasis on the rational management of waste and the use of biodegradable or reusable plastics. as a perfect example, i can give you a practice that is becoming more and more common, where many of us, by buying takeaway drinks and bringing our own reusable coffee cup, for example, and thus giving up plastic, get a bonus in the form of a discount on the purchase of the drink. i would very much like, and i wish for all of us, that these practices become part of our daily lives and become part of our consciousness, which will certainly contribute to the improvement of the environment.
madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very comprehensive report on the european action plan 'one health' to combat antimicrobial resistance. as a politician, but also as a doctor, i believe that the 'one health' principle must play an important role in the health policy of the member states, because bacteria, viruses and microorganisms know no borders. it is clear that human and animal health are - as we know today - closely linked. broad action programmes should be adopted to sensitise european societies to the use and handling of antibiotics not only in humans but also in animals. member states must work closely together in this area, of course drawing on the substantive expertise of the european commission and the member states. prevention and good health behaviour should not only be limited to the restrictive sale of antibiotics (for example, over the counter or via the internet), but also be closely linked to a public information campaign. sensitivity and awareness raising should not be limited to antibiotics. we can't forget about the vaccines. this 20th century phenomenon, which eliminated many infectious diseases from our space, has been forgotten by european societies. we need to get back to that and promote vaccination as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, listening to you tonight makes me rejoice. i am glad to see such a wide unanimity of views and convergence in your interventions. i am looking at the plastic strategy which was discussed before and now i see antimicrobial resistance (amr) is a topic which unites all of us. thank you for that. your report constitutes a strong political signal for us to step up our fight against antimicrobial resistance. as i said earlier, we have reached a critical point and the status quo is not an option. inaction would cause millions of deaths globally. isolation is not an option either. no single action will, in isolation, provide an adequate solution in a world that is increasingly interconnected and characterised by an intensive exchange of people and commodities. you rightly mentioned when speaking about amr that we should draw attention to all the instruments which we have in our hands, from agriculture to hygiene measures, bio security, vaccination, prevention of diseases, animal welfare, proper use of antibiotics, and so on. we have a lot of instruments available, an excellent animal welfare platform and the one health network, which can contribute a lot. we have achieved a lot in those four years of dealing with antimicrobial resistance and i am proud that we now have new legislation on our hands, which i mentioned. i strongly believe that it is only by joining our forces, including across borders, that we can make a difference in and win the fight against amr in the eu and globally. we will now carefully analyse all the proposals you have made following tomorrow’s vote on your report. once again, i thank you for your support and continued commitment. just speaking about greece, let’s communicate because i have no signals from the greek government. it would be good now to stay in touch and we are ready to discuss in a concrete way and we will see how we can support the greek government in addressing those issues. at the moment, we have no information, no response from the greek government, but i am ready to communicate with you and to see how we can address these issues together.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by marlena mizzi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a single digital gateway providing access to information, procedures, support services and problem solving and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012 (com (2017) 0256 c8-0141/2017 2017/0086cod)) (a8-0054/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. it is a pleasure to speak to you and to the members in your own language. it is worth emphasising that an important part of this report is that the new eu regulation does not change the substance of the national rules. our political group, as conservatives, welcomes the recognition of the principle of subsidiarity and the fact that a common way of sharing information is important and that different national approaches continue to coexist. and that's the essence of the european union, i think, in a nutshell, in this case. i regret that it has not been possible to include even more support for businesses to be able to collaborate digitally with national entities, but i hope that future changes can further reduce the bureaucracy that is detrimental to business. i'm glad we can work across political lines on this issue. it's important. in today's society, where the internet is becoming more and more accessible and digital applications and tools enable more and more tasks to be done online, it is appropriate for our countries to keep up with the times. i'm glad my government is doing this. the idea is that people spend less time in offices and can work more and earn more money. it is a step in the right direction - that is how i would sum up this regulation.
mr president, i believe that this portal will become an important element, reinforcing the identification of millions of citizens with our europe. so, thank you very much, marlene mizzi and othmar karas, and congratulations for achieving compromise with the council on this difficult file. it is a very concrete step forward and a very necessary one, because, according to different studies, we already have forty different eu information and problem—solving services, but 91.6% of eu citizens and businesses are unaware of any european—level online services. you say, madam commissioner, that 80% of businesses see administrative complexity as the number one problem in the single market, and that their costs go up to eur 55 billion per year. but even worse than those billions is the frustration and anger when a tourist, an artist – and we love them, we proved this today – a company proprietor or a worker, a student, a patient or a doctor cannot find that necessary information, such as a form to fill out when he or she encounters problems when delivering documents online. this portal will help to solve those problems. i find it especially important today, when some politicians call europe an imaginary community, the imaginowana wspólnota, which serves only those bureaucrats. you know what i am talking about. instead, member states must play an active part, not only in harmonising laws in the european union, but also in informing citizens and sharing information, for example by building together this digital gateway so that all citizens of europe can profit fully from the possibilities that our europe gives them and that the single market offers.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2018.
the next item is the report by mr istván ujhelyí, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, entitled 'europe on the move: an action programme on the future of mobility in the eu' (2017/2257 (ini)) (a8-0241/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. it is difficult to consider this draft resolution in isolation from the legislative proposals of the european commission, which the committee on transport and this parliament have been dealing with for the last few months. the ecr group fully supports many of the recommendations in this report, including the need to digitise the transport sector and to increase investment in modern and safe infrastructure. these are obvious things. however, we have doubts that some of the proposed solutions will not have a detrimental impact on the position of consumers and the conditions of operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. nor can we make investments in modern transport dependent on climate objectives alone. we also reject the use of the highly controversial term 'social dumping'. there is no such thing as social dumping, there is no definition of social dumping, but it is a concept that has been around for a few years now. we shall therefore abstain in the vote tomorrow and we shall not support your proposal.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the transport sector and all related industries are now at a crucial stage of development. we are seeing new trends emerge, autonomous vehicles, drones, intelligent transport systems. we are also witnessing a rapidly expanding space sector. all of the trends that i've mentioned need to be reflected in the appropriate legal frameworks that we've prepared, because we may wake up to a reality that we simply won't understand or that we won't be prepared for. adapting education, training and the appropriate skills system to the needs of a changing market is particularly important. this will ensure that employees can adapt to their new situation and that there is no excessive skills gap. i think that's very important and we have to pay special attention to that. safety is also very important, especially as new technologies make it possible to produce vehicles that move without drivers. europe needs a zero-casualty road programme and safe transport. we must not forget that in 20 years both air and road traffic will double. we must also not forget about sustainable transport, which will allow for better standards and lower co2 emissions. i hope that today's proposal will help us to achieve or come close to achieving the objectives we have set ourselves, and for that reason it deserves our support and congratulations to the rapporteur.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this open and interesting debate. i have taken note of your comments. i also want to use this opportunity to thank mr ujhelyi one more time for the report. it highlights accurately that to achieve the best possible mobility in the future we need a holistic approach. before i share my final thoughts with you, let me elaborate on two issues. first, on the impact on jobs: in order to support workers in the transport industry in adjusting to digitalisation and the transition to low-emission mobility, the commission, in partnership with member states and stakeholders such as employers, workers’ representatives and education and training providers, is addressing skill gaps and mismatches. key initiatives include the eu skills agenda and the ‘blueprint for sectorial cooperation on skills’ and we are really looking forward to the results of these measures. secondly, on financing: as you know, the commission has proposed an ambitious budget envelope for research and development for the next multiannual financial framework period 2021-2027. new mobility solutions should be among the main beneficiaries of the horizon europe programme, with almost eur 15 billion for mobility and energy activities. this will allow us to accelerate technological innovation. of course, our connecting europe facility (cef) will also continue to support the deployment of new, modern infrastructure equipped with intelligent transport systems, and for the use of alternative sources of energy. we have proposed a budget of eur 30.6 billion for cef between 2021 and 2027, which, for the first time, will also include investment in road safety. i hope that, as we have proposed, this will be among the main criteria for project prioritisation. technology is evolving faster and faster, and promises to find solutions. i do not doubt that there is always a technical solution to a problem, but i would like to stress one more time that technology is the means and not the final objective. i believe we should always put the users first – right next to the collective social benefits. connected and autonomous mobility will flourish only if it is socially acceptable. let’s not forget that our societies can only absorb a certain amount of new things. this is why it is so important that our strategy on connected and autonomous mobility covers not only technological and legal but also social and ethical questions. when we implement the necessary flanking measures to prepare for changes in jobs requirements and skills, and when we give meaningful answers to difficult ethical questions, then we can fully reap the benefits of the mobility of the future. triple ‘vision zero’, no road fatalities, no pollution and no congestion: this is the commitment that can be achieved with such a holistic approach. but until then, we have a lot of work ahead and i am sure we will have many more discussions on this topic. i hope they will be as invigorating as today’s debate, and i count on your continued support. together i am sure we can make a real and urgently needed difference.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! i would very much like to support this report. i don't get that much here, but it takes a lot of self-denial. this report should be made up of one sentence: 'given the use of misleading labelling practices on the european market for products of different quality using identical or misleadingly similar labels, member states are called upon to adopt regulations to prevent this phenomenon'. that's it! mrs. sehnalová, for the love of god, 45 paragraphs in a row about the same thing! reading this is more harmful than all those food additives you write about. you can't get away from it: it's the same thing over and over again. what do we have here? some kind of high-level forum to improve the functioning of the food supply chain. mother of god! it sounds like the names of communist institutions i remember from my childhood. you can't write laws like that, because that's legislative gibberish. the law should be short, clear and easy for everyone to read. i shall therefore try to support this report and i am very pleased to note that there is nothing about women in it. it's a very good prognosticator.
the question asked by raising the blue card. andreas, i know that in europe we have different tastes and different habits. but i would like you to clarify, do you agree that if the contents of two cans of fish or two boxes of washing powder are different, then the packaging cannot be confusingly similar? you can't tell what's inside a package by looking at it. the packaging must be different. i wish we could make that very clear.
mr. chairman, please! recently, new, very popular american chips have entered the european market, including the polish market. unfortunately, in poland the composition of the new product was different from that in the western part of the union, where it did not contain palm oil or sodium glutamate as in our country. however, due to the massive opposition of consumers, the manufacturer announced a change in composition. the pressure makes sense, of course. i am glad that the consumer reaction has influenced the manufacturer's policy, but it is our law that should provide citizens with adequate protection against unfair practices and should protect all citizens of the european union in the same way. it's part of our responsibility. i will continue to ensure that the same packaging means the same quality and content of the product throughout europe. today we are expecting further decisive action from the european commission, and in the pilot project i prepared we have indicated that the european parliament will be involved in the work to put an end to these unfair practices. i assure you, commissioner, we are ready for this.
in writing. i am pleased that the problem of so-called dual quality products has been recognised by the main eu institutions. i thank the rapporteur for the initiative in this report. given that no concrete legislative proposal has yet been put forward, our vote is particularly important. i think that the problem should be clarified, not only in relation to food but also to household goods and cleaning products. the interpretations of producers that the changes in the composition of their products in individual countries are due only to their 'concern for the differing local tastes and flavors' are naive and unconvincing. the producers do not present how they have investigated the alleged taste preferences of the czechs, slovaks, croats or poles; they have not shown how one consumer group expects less fish in fish fingers and more palm oil in butter. we are keen to develop appropriate methodologies for proceedings before consumer authorities in individual countries to apply the tools that are available for use at local level. it is also important to emphasise the role of the ec in the next stage, but its role must be balanced accordingly. in conclusion, i support the text of the report because, as it stands, it proposes to put the right emphasis on producers, but without going too far in proposing harmonised legislation in this area at eu level.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start with something that doesn’t relate directly to the issue that we are discussing today: we meet every month to discuss human rights violations and take action. i think that it is important for me to say a few words on the system that we have built together to assess human rights violations and ensure accountability, and bring perpetrators to justice. today the existence of the international criminal court is being questioned. and i think it important to say formally and clearly in this chamber that it is not being questioned by the european union and that we will continue to strongly and fully support the icc and its work. i know that this is the strong position of this parliament, and of all our member states. we remember very well when, 20 years ago in rome, the statute of the icc was finally ratified. we remember very well that, after rwanda and the war in the balkans, the world needed real change and we all know that the international criminal court has brought that change. it has strengthened universal justice beyond power politics and beyond geopolitical interests. it has made it clear that justice is not an enemy of reconciliation, but, on the contrary, the basis for reconciliation, for it is when the victims feel powerless, when crimes are met with impunity, that reconciliation is much harder to achieve. accountability is essential to build the foundations for peace. so the court may not be perfect, but the best way forward for us is not to dismantle our global institutions. the way forward for us is to make them stronger and to build a strong, more effective multilateral system. that is why, once again – i want to say so very clearly and very strongly in this room – that is why the european union will continue to be a strong supporter of the icc, and i am counting on your support in the work that lies ahead of us. coming to the issue that we are discussing in this item of the agenda, on 13 august, as most of you have mentioned, at least 35 people were arrested in the arua district in the north—west of uganda immediately before a local by—election. among the people arrested were four members of parliament belonging to the opposition, and in the following days various ugandan sources reported that security forces had inflicted brutal treatment on the detainees, including the members of parliament. the european union delegation and member statesʼ ambassadors on the ground followed the situation extremely closely and issued a joint statement on 17 august, calling upon all forces in uganda to respect the rule of law and individual rights. we got the authorisation from the military authorities. our delegation and european ambassadors were able to visit two of the members of parliament, bobi wine in the military barracks where he was being detained and francis zaake in the hospital where he was undergoing treatment. both of them had several wounds and needed extensive medical treatment. they were eventually authorised to leave the country at the beginning of september. however, they are still facing treason charges. an investigation into the alleged abuses has been launched by the police. the speaker of parliament decided to set up an another committee to deal with this issue. finally, a report is also expected from the ugandan human rights commission. we will wait for the conclusions of these investigations, but let me state very clearly once again that security forces have a duty to respect everyone’s freedom to peacefully demonstrate in support of their opinions. the allegations of torture are serious. if they are confirmed, perpetrators must be prosecuted and victims must obtain redress. uganda has, unfortunately, a long history of violence and conflict, and we know very well that its people deserve some peace and the right to peacefully express their opinion. we’ve made this position very clear to the ugandan government and we will continue to engage with it so that responsibilities can be established and perpetrators are brought to justice.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. human rights, which derive from the inalienable and inviolable dignity of the human person, should be guaranteed and respected by every state. the case of the independent member of parliament in uganda, robert kyagulanyi ssentamu, also known as bobi wine, is therefore a disturbing manifestation of the violation of fundamental human rights, especially those defined as absolute, which cannot be limited in any case. the authorities of each state should be the guarantors of respect for rights and freedoms, not only by fulfilling the provisions of international conventions, but also by ensuring the protection of human rights. moreover, the authorities have a moral obligation to respect human dignity and to protect individuals from abuse of power. the ugandan authorities, like every other country in the world, should respect and protect human rights. release all political prisoners and end the practice of removing opposition figures and sympathizers from public life and the use of ugandan armed forces to suppress local opposition forces.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on myanmar/burma, in particular the case of journalists wa lone and kyaw soe oo (2018/2841 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, a few days ago a myanmar court sentenced two reuters journalists to seven years in prison. at the time of their arrest they were working on an investigation into the killing of ten rohingya men in a village in rakhine state. we have been following this case very closely from the beginning, almost one year ago. following their arrest on 18 december last year we requested their immediate release. our delegation to myanmar has observed all relevant court hearings, and, together with member states, we continuously raise the issue with the myanmar government. when the court decided to press charges against the two journalists last year on 7 july we again reacted publicly. many observers saw this trial as a test of media freedom, democracy and the rule of law. it is pretty clear that the test was failed, and we made this clear in our statements released right after the sentence, which will also intimidate other journalists, who could fear undue arrest or prosecution for doing their job. throughout the years, we’ve always accompanied myanmar on its path towards democracy and i still have hope that myanmar can go back to that path and become an inclusive and free country for all its citizens. so we ask once again that the prison sentences be reviewed and that the two journalists be released immediately and unconditionally. the report that they were working on, published almost a year ago, shed light on what was happening in rakhine state. it contains the same kind of stories, exactly the same kind of stories, that i heard myself from rohingya refugees in bangladesh. those stories have also led to the preliminary report from the united nations fact-finding mission. the un report confirms the need for pressure and engagement to make the situation change as soon as possible, and this is exactly what we’ve been doing so far as the european union. as you know, we were one of the strongest voices calling for a fact-finding mission in 2017 and we are now sponsoring a resolution at the ongoing session of the human rights council to support the recommendations and conclusions of the fact-finding mission. so, for those of you who asked us to do that, we are currently doing it. the resolution will aim in particular to establish an international accountability mechanism. i discussed the issue with all my interlocutors at the asean regional forum last month in singapore, in particular with bangladesh and also with china and indonesia. we will also discuss the situation when we meet at the upcoming asia-europe meeting that we will host next month in brussels, and of course i will use the un general assembly ministerial week 10 days from now to discuss how to improve the situation with all the relevant interlocutors, not only in the region, but also in the un system. there are some urgent measures to be taken. first and foremost guaranteeing full and immediate humanitarian access inside rakhine state. we are already among the largest humanitarian donors for rohingya refugees in bangladesh, but it is vital that aid reaches those in need inside myanmar. to address these kinds of issues, as well as to improve the overall human rights situation and address the lack of accountability for those who have committed crimes, we are putting pressure on relevant individuals and institutions in myanmar. we have put in place restrictive measures against seven senior army and police officers associated with serious human rights violations in rakhine state. in light of the un report we are considering strengthening these restrictive measures. we’ve also made it clear to the myanmar authorities that our trade preferences with myanmar are linked to clear conditions on human rights and democracy and that to preserve our current trade arrangements we need to see decisive action to improve the situation. finally, we’re working closely with the civilian government of myanmar to address the root causes of conflict in accordance with the annan report. the people of myanmar have asked to turn the page, to go towards a democratic system and country, and they deserve better than this. they deserve a country where journalists are free to do their job and keep the state institutions accountable for their actions and they deserve a country where all citizens, all of them, have the same rights, whatever their faith or the background. so we will continue to put pressure and to engage so that the country can advance again on its path towards democracy. thank you very much, and especially i would like to thank all of you who are engaging strongly and closely with the country: parliamentary diplomacy – as always, but especially in this case – is key. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on cambodia, in particular the kem sokha case (2018/2842 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! recent events in cambodia, especially the elections in which the ruling party received 100 percent of the votes or the dissolution of the opposition party, clearly point to a very sad truth: cambodia cannot be seen in terms of a democratic state. in this context, i believe that it is no longer enough to call on the cambodian government to respect democracy and the rule of law. to protect the cambodian people from authoritarian governments and human rights abuses, we must take more decisive measures. that is why i fully support the decision to suspend european union aid to support the elections. in addition, i believe that the withdrawal of trade preferences for cambodia should be considered, as well as the introduction of visa restrictions for those responsible for human rights violations in that country.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last year saw significant steps backwards for cambodia’s fragile democracy. one-party rule, authoritarian tendencies that have gained more ground in the country, and the space for political opposition and civil society has not so much shrunk as simply closed. at the general election in july following the enforced dissolution of the main opposition party, the ruling party won all seats in the national assembly. the election took place in a highly restrictive environment and it was clearly not representative of the democratic will of the cambodian citizens. last february, at the european union foreign affairs council, we stressed that the cambodian electoral process could not be considered legitimate after the arbitrary exclusion of the main opposition party, and so we suspended the european union financial assistance to the cambodian national election committee and we declined to observe the july elections. over the last year the legal system has increasingly been used by the authorities in the country to suppress critical voices, not only from the opposition but also from civil society and the media, and at the foreign affairs council in february, we stated that we may consider specific targeted measures if the situation had not improved. so, the situation has not improved and we are now considering the possibility of further measures that, as you know, would require the council to take a unanimous decision. we also recall that the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including labour rights, is essential for maintaining eu trade preferences. for this reason we sent already in july a fact-finding mission to cambodia to evaluate the situation on the ground, and the decisions on any further steps will be based on the information gathered during this mission. the european union has been working with and for the people of cambodia since the end of the war. at first we helped rebuild the country. we helped clear it of landmines and restart fundamental economic activities. today we support job-creation and vocational training and we would like this partnership to continue, in order to continue to benefit the people of cambodia. but it is clear that the cambodian government must reverse the current trend, otherwise this would not be possible. the recent release on bail of opposition leader kem sokha is a positive first step, even though he was released under very restrictive conditions. we now expect the dropping of all charges and the removal of all restrictions placed upon him and we invite the prime minister and the leader of the opposition to start a dialogue on the way forward. we urge the cambodian authorities to drop all remaining politically motivated charges against activists and lift the ban on the political activity of 118 senior opposition members. local councillors from the opposition who were elected in june last year should be reinstated. we also call on the cambodian government to guarantee the safe return of all exiled opposition politicians, civil society activists and human rights defenders who have fled the country to avoid arrest. the laws and regulations that have been used to restrict opposition and civil society must be reviewed and amended. at the 1991 paris peace accords the cambodian government agreed to a legally binding obligation to maintain a pluralistic and democratic system, so we now expect the cambodian authorities to restore free political debate and competition, and to respect the space for a free and independent civil society. if we continue to see this negative trend without any changes, as i said, we are ready in the council to take appropriate measures. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
prime minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from macedonian into english.) mr president, i feel honoured and more than happy to have received your invitation and i want to express my gratitude for your warm welcome. for our macedonian people, this is a historic moment. this is the first time that a prime minister of our country has addressed the european parliament in their own language, but yet i have the feeling that i am at home. i feel so good. it is so natural to be here in the home that we belong to, in the home of our european family, to feel invited and to feel welcome. as you surely know, the people in our country are facing yet another historic crossroads. in the lead-up to this new historic challenge, we have received in recent weeks a great deal of encouragement from you. many members of the european parliament, leaders of the council and the commission visited our country to demonstrate their support for the referendum on 30 september when the macedonian people will decide on the agreement with greece signed in prespa. citizens know what decision they need to make. this is not an easy decision. we will be a ‘republic of north macedonia’, but with recognition for the macedonian people and the macedonian language. we all know what benefits derive from this decision and we know that this is the best opportunity our country has been given thus far. we know that it is a once in a lifetime opportunity and we will not miss that opportunity. we will seize it because this is our ticket for entering the european union and nato. only a few days ago we celebrated our independence day. on 8 september 1991, the vast majority of our citizens voted in favour of a free, independent and sovereign state. this impressive result was based on a wide consensus. people placed the fate of their country before everything. they rose above their political differences. this consensus involved all ethnic and social groups that dreamed of a better life in an independent country. i was 17 years old at that historic time in 1991. i was yet another of the many young people living and dreaming of life in a free society: dreaming of their future in an open society, aiming for progress. we didn’t want to stay any longer in the remnants of the former yugoslavia that was turning into a regime. we did not want to be isolated from the rest of the world. we wanted to create a democratic country of opportunities, a union of prosperity where the rule of law guarantees justice and where we would be full of hope. we deeply believed in the opportunity we had. we believed in the end of political repression and an end to poverty. we believed in a better life in an independent republic. we were certain that the next generation would have more than we had ever dreamed of. we dreamed of being part of the european family. we belong here geographically, historically and culturally, and we share european values. we see our future as part of the european union. the perspective for eu membership is a mobilising factor bringing together all the stakeholders in society to work for the successful implementation of the reforms and to deal with challenges on that path. our people have worked very hard to accomplish their dreams and to reach their goals. yes, we have made progress but this is not enough: 27 years later some of our dreams have still not become reality, and i am not satisfied because i know that we can do better. we are struggling with internal political conflicts. we are fighting not be isolated from the rest of the world, and we did have conflicts with our neighbours. as a small country and a young democracy, we are still facing great challenges, but we have never lost our vision and we have never stopped fighting for a better future. we will certainly not stop now. we believe that we are in our rightful place and we strongly believe in a better future. we believe in our future as a respected member of the international community and this proud european family. joining this family will bringer greater stability for all of us and greater prosperity on the home front. as prime minister, i assure you that we are doing everything possible to reach the standards of the european union. we know the recommendations. they are our priorities: independent and democratic institutions, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, a professional, service-oriented public administration. we know there is a long road ahead of us. however, your warm welcome and your encouragement strongly motivate us and give us the strength to continue implementing our reform agenda. the european idea is the guiding force and an inspiration in settling burning open issues in the region. the republic of macedonia is a case in point. our strong faith in the european future was the key motive in reaching the historic agreements with greece and with bulgaria. we are proud of both agreements. i would like to thank my friends boyko borisov and alexis tsipras. we are a european success story, being an authentic model of a functional multi—ethnic democracy. we are a microcosm of europe. we are living day by day the european motto, ‘united in diversity’ with all its advantages and challenges. the political crisis we have overcome was, in fact, a fight for values, the kind of fight that can be seen in europe, in the european and global setting: the fight for liberal values, the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, democratic governance, and an open economy as opposed to authoritarian nationalism. our citizens have made their choice. they have committed themselves to european values and to a european macedonia. we want to serve as an example and an inspiration for settling all bilateral issues in the western balkans and we strongly support finding sustainable solutions, founded on european values and international law, that will lastingly stabilise the region and will prepare the region for its integration into the european union. one of the most important issues that we needed to resolve was the name difference with greece because this is a condition for starting negotiations for our accession to the eu and nato. the strong motivation, and the model in the search for the solution of this difference with greece, came precisely from the european union, as the most successful peace project in the world: a model that has resolved great historical conflict situations, turning them into sustainable communities of friendship and trust. we share these european values. with the help of our european friends we have transformed our political misunderstanding with the hellenic republic within a community of good and friendly neighbours. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my friend alexis tsipras, knowing that it is not easy for him either. we had delicate, sensitive talks. this is what responsible leaders need to do. we both made concessions but we are getting so much more in the interests of our peoples and in the name of our future. we have put an end to a difference that was an obstacle for our country for a full 25 years. we have laid the foundations for new friendly relations and for a partnership that will enhance stability, security and the economy in our region. we have reached an agreement about our respective, specific identity features once and for all and i believe we will make the right choice. i believe that we have a good respectful agreement that affirms our identity and guarantees our future – the future of both peoples and states. the prespa agreement is an excellent model for settling sensitive identity issues and it can be applied in other regions worldwide. the prespa agreement is a compromise to shift from the status quo and move forward to the future. now we have the opportunity to leave our past behind and take this step to the future. it is up to the citizens of our two countries to decide whether they will take this step across the threshold to the future. for macedonia it is an opportunity that we have been awaiting for so long. in 1991, we voted for independence in a referendum and, again in a referendum, we need to take the next step, to create a realistic possibility of becoming the 30th member of nato and closing, chapter by chapter, the process for our pending membership of the eu and of the european family. the referendum on 30 september is much more than just a referendum on the prespa agreement. this is a referendum for our future. this is a referendum on our second independence, a referendum of historic proportions, on a par with 1991. we know that our freedom and independence as a small country is only guaranteed as a member of the international community, as a member of the eu and nato. this is not only for the republic of macedonia: all our neighbours will have a better future when we act as an alliance and a family. the integration of the balkan countries in the eu will bring about even greater stability around europe. there can be no strong europe without a successful balkans region, and the balkans can be successful only when integrated into the eu. this vision motivated us to take this historic step and encourage the process of reconciliation – building a community and an alliance in the region. the consolidation of the eu can – and should – take place along with the european consolidation of the balkans. the benefits are multiple for the union: strengthening stability in europe; contributing to nurturing european values; more successfully handling security risks, migration and the fight against terrorism; preventing the influence of third parties; and enhancing the role of the eu on the international stage. indeed, it was addressing security challenges and risks during the migration crisis that showed that we need to work together and that we can be trustworthy partners and allies. the european integration of the balkans is a geostrategic investment in a stable, strong and united europe based on common values and standards. membership of the eu will bring a lot of benefits and new opportunites for the people of the republic of macedonia. the eu and nato will allow us to strengthen our economy. even now we can see it: the economy is on an upward trend; growth rates rise by the month; foreign investments are a reality now, and we know that there is more to come. the eu and nato are a chance for a better living standard for the coming generations. membership of the eu and nato is a guarantee for our independence, freedom and democracy, better education, better health care, and better infrastructure. these are the chances that we are getting and this is the responsibility that we need to take. i know that it is up to us. we also know what we can give back to our european family. we can give our loyalty, as we have already proved on many an occasion. we can give back true passion for the european idea. for us, europe is much more than just a union, much more than just growth and economic security. for us, europe means living in a modern, equal and open society with clear democratic standards, with the rule of law, solidarity, better courts and equal justice for all. we are a multi-ethnic country. we know and respect the benefits of community, we cherish the concept of a single society for all and we know that strength in society comes from unity. this is why we have a broad consensus in our country for entry into the eu and nato. this consensus unites macedonians, albanians, turks, the roma, serbs, bosniaks the vlachs, egyptians, bulgarians and everyone else living in macedonia. when it comes to the strategic interests of our country, i also wish us to be united, and to be united in politics as well. more than three—quarters of our population support membership of the eu and european values. yes, our people want to be part of this family. they feel european and they belong to europe. in 1991 i was 17 and this was everything i ever dreamed of: to be part of the european family and have a european future. the young in our country still dream about this today. twenty—seven years later, i am the prime minister and i am addressing the european parliament on behalf of the citizens of my country in my own macedonian mother tongue. it is now for us to decide on our future and we are grateful for this historic moment. we are proud that our beloved country finally has a chance to take membership of the eu and nato full circle. i can feel this right now. i can feel how close we are to accomplishing this dream for the european macedonia. this is why i believe that the referendum will be a success and that our citizens will vote for europe. the referendum on 30 september is our stake in and our contribution to a stronger europe: to unity and greater stability in the region. we consider today’s event and this invitation to address you, as support by the european parliament for our european future and for taking the right path. thank you, president tajani, and thank you dear members of the european parliament for the honour you have given us today. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
madam president! i voted for the report on a european strategy for plastics in the circular economy and i would support any action that would actually reduce the use of plastics. this should include not only food containers and bottles, but also, and above all, micro-plastics added to cosmetics, cleaning products, food and even medicines. the strategy is costly, but the savings for consumers are estimated to be in the billions of euros, not counting the invaluable health benefits. in parallel with the strategy for recycled plastics, the elimination of micro-plastics is very important. otherwise, it could just be another business related to enforcing the introduction of, say, bottle recycling machines. it is almost a rule that new regulations have been introduced as a result of previous ones destroying the environment, sometimes without imagination, not to mention conscience which have caused enormous losses in human and animal health.
madam president! i voted in favour of the report on the european action plan 'one health' to combat antimicrobial resistance. this resistance is growing, putting lives at risk, especially human lives. in 2010 alone, 63,000 tonnes of antibiotics were used worldwide for cattle, pigs and chickens, twice the amount prescribed by doctors to treat human infections. i regret that my amendments, in which i paid particular attention to the causes of antibiotic resistance, which depend on modern breeding and cultivation methods, and which are largely responsible for the current disorders and irregularities, were not adopted. the 'one health' principle should apply all the more as human and animal health and the environment are interlinked and diseases require to be tackled by introducing measures such as rapid diagnostic tests, hygiene, control of antibiotic prescriptions (also treated as antibiotic growth factors) or antibiotic abuse, especially in animals, and the administration of alternative antimicrobials.
madam president! i abstained from the vote. why would you do that? i am aware that the report rightly calls for increased controls and emphasises the need for more innovation, but many of the provisions concern measures that already exist or have been introduced, i.e. they are ex post. it's almost as if this report is going forward. the report also makes a number of statements with which i find it difficult to agree, namely on the accelerated procedure for the approval of products of biological origin. moreover, i cannot agree with some - not entirely correct in my view - of the theses of the analysis of the european parliament's office of analysis, which argues that the derogations and the procedure for providing supporting data have allowed the products subject to restrictions to remain on the market. in these cases, the existing rules take full account of the risks involved and do not need to be changed. for that reason, in view of these inconsistencies, i abstained.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me begin by thanking mr jakovčić for bringing this question forward. as stated in article 2 of the treaty on european union: ‘the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail.’ these common values are the backdrop of our national democracies and a reflection of who we are. there are worrying signs that the necessary knowledge of our common values and of the role of national and european democracy is not embedded enough. this risks leading to their erosion and it challenges the cohesion of our societies. citizens need to be aware of their european union citizenship rights in order fully to benefit from them. while some rights are well known to citizens, such as the right to free movement, gaps and misunderstandings remain. for example, awareness of the right to vote in european elections remains low. the proportion of europeans wanting to know more about their eu rights continues to increase – slowly, but it is increasing. the commission will thus continue its efforts in this regard. europe day is a fantastic occasion to do exactly that. it is a landmark date in the calendar of the european union when the commission celebrates the european project and the common values it is founded on. every year on 9 may the representations of the commission organise a whole string of events in the member states, often in cooperation with the european parliament, national authorities and many other partners, ngos and civil society. we open our doors to the public, encouraging visitors to experience how our everyday work allows european citizens to lead a better life. the array of activities organised on 9 may is conducive to creating ever-stronger awareness of the european union, its values and actions. by way of example, let me mention just some of the activities the commission organises to celebrate european day and share the union’s common values. first, we promote citizens’ visits to projects financed by the eu, in the context of the ‘eu in my region’ campaign, which is organised in cooperation with member states. second, in 2018 more than 220 events have taken place focusing on awareness raising about european union achievements, and reflecting on challenges for the european union. this year, specific emphasis has been placed on european values, as well citizens’ rights, through the ‘euandme campaign’. furthermore, precisely on 9 may the commission launched an online public consultation on the future of the eu. this ambitious debate runs in parallel with the ongoing citizens’ dialogues organised in the member states, which have so far reached more than 320 238 citizens. this is the context of the council recommendation on promoting common values, inclusive education and the european dimension of teaching. the commission recommends that member states promote an annual celebration – of course on a voluntary basis – of a day of the european union in schools. this recommended day of the european union in schools would not constitute a public holiday, but would be an occasion to stimulate reflection among young people on the european union and its values. against this background, the commission does not deem it necessary to have 9 may established as a europe-wide public holiday. however, they would welcome any decision in this direction taken by individual member states at national level. let me also say a few words about what we do to promote european values through our programmes and policies. firstly, a specific part of the rights, equality and citizenship programme is devoted to promoting the rights deriving from union citizenship. it aims to promote awareness of european citizenship rights, as well as to foster inclusion and democratic participation by mobile european union citizens living in other eu member states, and by under-represented groups, including women and young people. we intend to continue and further to develop these activities under a new justice, rights and values fund after 2020. we intend to continue to promote measures in the field of education in order to share and promote eu values, especially among young people. in fact, high-quality, inclusive education and training is essential not only in terms of offering our citizens knowledge and skills to succeed in the labour market but also in promoting the competences of critical thinking and deeper understanding of our common values. the council recommendation on promoting common values, inclusive education and the european dimension of teaching, which was adopted on 22 may 2018, focuses on four objectives: first, promoting common values at all levels of education; second, fostering more inclusive education; third, encouraging a european dimension of teaching; and, fourth, supporting teachers and teaching. in order to achieve the aims of the council recommendation, the commission supports and works together with member states. it is taking steps to enhance a sense of european identity among young people through initiatives such as: firstly, boosting school mobility under the erasmus+ programme; secondly, increasing virtual exchanges among schools, notably through the etwinning network; thirdly, supporting teaching, learning, research and debates on european integration issues in all fields of education and training under the ‘jean monnet’ measures; fourthly, supporting numerous mutual learning initiatives between member state authorities and stakeholders within the european framework for cooperation in education and training; and, fifthly, the european solidarity corps and discovereu. lastly, the european structural and investment funds can also be used to support teacher training or fund infrastructure to implement the recommendation. i am now looking forward to our debate, and we will continue to reach out to the member states through our communication efforts. i know that i can count on you in these joint efforts.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 9 may, robert schuman made a declaration that was considered the beginning of the process of european integration, saying that europe would not be created all at once, but would be created by concrete achievements, first creating real solidarity. the establishment of europe day on 9 may would aim to improve integration between citizens and institutions, with the promotion of european values - which is of course very important - and this information could be shared on the european day. but before such a holiday is established, it would be necessary to start building european solidarity in practice, with respect for the sovereignty of the member states. on 9 may, various celebrations with schuman parades are held in poland, and the mass media also devotes a lot of time to summarising the country's membership of the union. however, such actions will not eliminate the growing sense of distance between citizens and the european institutions as long as the union itself does not respect the values it has adopted in the treaties. article 2 of the treaty on european union states that the union is founded, inter alia, on respect for freedom, equality and solidarity. and it is only in reference to these words that questions are raised about the double standards prevailing in the structures of the union, which concern, for example, the non-respect of the results of free elections in some member states, the favouring of the farmers of the 'old 15' in the common agricultural policy compared to farmers from central europe, the pressure to accept refugees and even the inferior quality of products sent to central europe. citizens of the member states of the european union are witnessing a departure from the values of the founders, and in particular a disregard for christian values. until the union returns to the values represented by the leaders of the founding fathers of 'europe the fatherland', it seems that the celebration of 9 may would be nothing more than a reminder and a celebration of the founding declaration, far from the idea of the founders.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. i'm approaching this report from two sides: as a politician on the one hand, and as a doctor on the other. as a physician, i realize that hta is the foundation of optimal and best medical decisions today. as a politician, i have some reservations, because health care, health protection, its organisation and financing are the exclusive domain of the member states. i therefore recommend some caution here, particularly caution in the formulation of very strong harmonisation on hta. i'm very aware that medical technology assessment is a multidisciplinary process that summarizes information and knowledge about the use of certain medical technologies in medical, social, economic or ethical settings, and it's always difficult to apply. we need to make sure that hta is designed to provide a basis for safe and effective health policy, and here i am respectfully saying that the patient should be at the centre of this document. another factor to consider is how to make the best use of health funds. i have two comments. the first seems to me to be that the compromise would be the possibility of constructive dialogue within the framework of joint european reports to be carried out by the member states, as well as additional evaluation, and possibly the use of their existing scope of work and expenditure, because it is not the case that the member states do not prepare their own reports and do not conduct their own research. second case however, it is necessary to seek to extend the transitional periods for the application of hta mainly in the field of medical devices. this is a new, difficult, huge thing, and here i think we should first do well with drug programs, where it's easier, we have more experience. it's worse with medical devices, there should be a longer transition period. finally, it must be remembered that health will still be a matter for the member states, and we must take this into account.
mr. chairman, please! the pharmaceutical industry is a giant, it's a big fund, it's a big opportunity. and that's why, in this debate, i want to draw attention to two very dangerous groups that are emerging within this big money. the first group is trying to push various drugs or pseudo-drugs, placebos, at all costs, on people who are often poor, uninformed, by simply deceiving them. the second group, the extreme group, is trying to dissuade some of the public from, for example, mandatory vaccinations, from some preventive research. and i want to bring that up here because i think both of these groups are growing in strength. and this is an area of our collective responsibility to not abuse the financial resources of this great industry on the one hand, but on the other to protect society from unnecessary false information and also advertising.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i can assure you that the commission will carefully analyse and consider all the points you raised during today’s discussion – a very interesting discussion – and once again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very balanced and excellent report. let me reiterate that the commission is ready to provide its expertise to the european parliament and the council, in order to support the negotiations of the co-legislators and facilitate possible compromise solutions. as recognised by the european parliament, the proposed regulation is expected to benefit a wide range of stakeholders, including member states’ authorities, health technology developers, healthcare providers and payers, and of course – most importantly – patients across the eu. i can assure you of the full support of the commission towards reaching agreement with parliament and the council on this important file as soon as possible. once again, i thank you for your continued support and commitment in this very interesting and demanding issue for the healthcare system across europe and for all of our member states.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by malin björk, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, tanja fajon, on behalf of the s&d group, petras auštrevičius, sophia in 't veld, marietje schaake, on behalf of the alde group, terry reintke, on behalf of the verts/ale group, on the implementation of the council guidelines on lgbti persons in the context of the situation in chechnya (o-720000/2018 - b8-0401/2018) (2018/2851(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. people who experience inhumane treatment always have a right to our compassion and to our intervention. it's a basic human requirement. if they're alone, all the more so, if they're condemned, all the more so. these are obvious things. but let's think for a moment about the causes of this phenomenon that we're talking about here. our colleague mr viotti has listed a long list of muslim countries where he sees the danger of a situation similar to that in chechnya. chechnya has been under sharia law for many years, chechnya is returning to polygamy (by the way, it surprises me that in our hall, where we defend women's rights so much, we do not react to the fact that this fundamental institution guaranteeing equality between women and men, which is monogamy, is being questioned) and we really do not know what is happening. the problem is that the basic distinctions that we know in the world of our culture, western civilization, christianitas - the distinction between sin and sinner, moral disapproval and legal disapproval - do not work in this sense in islam, and we see the results. one more thing: when we are making humanitarian interventions to protect people, let's not mix the ideology of what you call lgbti, because we don't know if these men who were victims of such repression defined themselves as such.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam deputy, i would like to ask you to clarify your position, because you said that the only reason for the persecution in chechnya is the so-called homosexual orientation. do you think that in chechnya, ramzan kadyrov's political opponents - the political opposition - are not persecuted? are they not experiencing political persecution? in this country, which has been the victim of brutal pacification, brutal invasion, is there really no other repression? i say again, let's have compassion for people, but let's not make it an ideology, but let's have compassion for them because they are people.
member of the commission. – mr president, it has been a very useful exchange and i thank your colleagues for their interventions. from this debate, i conclude that we have a common concern about what has been happening in chechnya. violence against the lgbti community has also disclosed the appalling situation of human rights in that russian republic. this is the hard reality on the ground. we will continue coordinating with member states to support the victims and to put pressure on the russian authorities to stop the violence and ensure justice for the victims. we will continue to pursue all the avenues open to us, and to look at how best to use all our available instruments in specific support of human rights and democracy. just a few words about our support under the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). in 2017, several emergency grants were allocated under the eu’s human rights defenders mechanism to lgbti persons’ rights defenders from russia at the time of the events affecting lgbti persons in chechnya. i hope that you will understand when i say that it is important to maintain discretion with regard to annual support when a vulnerable or at-risk community is concerned in order to be able to continue our work. it is also very important to bear in mind the complications that receiving funding from abroad can entail for russian organisations in view of the foreign agents legislation. i would like to close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this, and other significant human rights issues, on the agenda.
thank you, commissioner stylianides, for the two and a half hours you've spent with us. i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the commission statement on international financial reporting standards: ifrs 17 insurance contracts (2018/2689 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i will say at the outset that i am not in favour of expanding reports, of new reports. why would you do that? because we can't use the data that we have already collected. on the other hand, i am against over-regulation of those parts of the market which are services-related, because i think they are worse off. however, i understand and share the general feeling that we need to raise the bar, thinking first of all about the people, the consumers - in this case insurance services. but i think that we have to do it very delicately so that this market is not damaged, not disrupted, also from the business side. i have two questions. one question was answered by commissioner ansip, so i won't go into it again. the second question was to the rapporteur on the timetable. unfortunately, i understand the schedule is a little compromised. i was pointing this out in my last speech.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interest in international financial reporting standards: ifrs 17. the commission will continue to monitor closely the endorsement of the standards, taking into account the european parliament’s concerns, with a view to ensuring that ifrs 17 is conducive to the european public good and that its implementation does not put any undue strain on the european insurance industry.
thank you very much, mr vice-president, for such a categorical and at the same time brief statement. i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 october 2018.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms eva kaili, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on distributed ledger technology and blockchain: building trust in non-bank fund flows (o-000092/2018 - b8-0405/2018) (2017/2772 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank eva kaili and the honourable members of the european parliament for this question about distributed ledger technologies and blockchains, as well as the motion for a resolution. the european commission shares the view that distributed ledger technologies and blockchain—based developments are an opportunity for industry and public services in europe. this will allow rethinking of information systems and processes promoting user trust while ensuring compliance with the protection of personal data and transparency. these technologies have the potential for more efficient delivery of products and service across organisational boundaries and borders. i had direct experience of that potential in june when i attended a blockathon where 11 teams of coders developed ways to fight counterfeiting. blockchain can provide an electronic chain of custody for each and every piece of intellectual property. the commission is working to seize the opportunities, address the limitations and define policies that will promote the uptake and development of blockchain based applications in europe. to reach scale, 26 eu countries and norway have agreed to work together to set up the european blockchain partnership. its aim is to develop a coordinated european response that guarantees interoperability and avoids fragmentation. another objective is to create a european blockchain services infrastructure to support cross—border public services with the highest standards of security, privacy and energy efficiency. the partnership is now examining which cross—border digital public services could benefit most from such infrastructure. examples include the exchange of data for moving goods, duty suspension, digital identity and vat collection. the first eu-wide services will be provided over the european blockchain services infrastructure by next year. principles of governance and other conditions will be specified by the end of this year. with the help of the european parliament, we have also launched the eu blockchain observatory and forum to help us identify and overcome obstacles in blockchain innovation. they organise online community building, workshops and blockchain focused events across europe. their work aims to stimulate a competitive blockchain environment and the conditions of legal certainty that are needed to sustain investments in distributed leisure technologies and blockchain applications across the european union. thank you for your attention, i am looking forward to the discussion. (applause)
madam president! it is fascinating to see how meps, commissioners and bureaucrats cannot sleep well when something is created without their supervision, how their hands are itching to be inserted into another area of life that they do not regulate. but no, and again no, there's no need! this technology is doing very well without you. i get the feeling that some of you wake up in the morning wondering what you're gonna mess up today. there's no need for that. you know, if you mess with something that works, you can only ruin it. this technology was designed in a way that it's completely uncrackable, independent of government, resistant to surveillance, anonymous, and so on. so mind your own business, don't go digging into things no one asks you to dig into.
madam president! the european union's goal is to achieve a balance between the level of development and the well-being of its citizens. the aim is to raise the living standards of the community's citizens. the commission's statement highlights the rural, mountain and remote regions. i think that this last category should be extended to the border regions of the european union, especially in the east, for example in poland, such as lublin, podkarpatie, podlasie. notably, the rural areas are also affected. they are characterised by a low level of technical and transport infrastructure and a quality of life that is very different from that of the rich regions of the european union. as a result, people are moving to western europe, and the regions are becoming depopulated. it is therefore only fair that the border regions of the european union should also be included in the instrument for supporting remote regions, and i was encouraged to do so by the commissioner's statement today, in which she said that she wanted no region to be left out.
madam president! rural, mountainous and remote areas make up the majority of the territory of the european union and are home to more than half of its population. however, they are still disadvantaged, with their gdp consistently lower than in urban areas. they're struggling with depopulation and the outflow of young people, and they have even worse access to the internet. there is no doubt that these regions need our special support and care. i believe that one of the best tools for providing such support is the interreg programme, which, over its 25 years of existence, has already proven its effectiveness in tackling transregional challenges, effectively finding added value in the differences between areas. i therefore believe that, when negotiating the new multiannual financial framework, this instrument should be given a sufficiently high budget to enable it to continue to provide effective support to rural, mountainous and remote areas.
member of the commission. – madam president, i just want to respond that today in the daily news you can see that the commission has already taken the decision to release eur 1.5 million for the victims of the indonesian earthquake. you can see this in today’s daily news.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the report of the ombudsman, which has just been published and which points to the dire state of the rule of law in the european union. points out that the secretary-general's post was filled in violation of all procedures; we knew that before. the report clearly confirms this, and it is sad to note that none of the commissioners opposed it, especially since we know that it is mr selmayr, who was already known for machiavellian behavior on the border of the law. what's the matter? and no one's hair falls out because of it, even though the law was broken. mr selmayr remains in office while the union instructs other countries like poland on the rule of law and legality of the actions to respect the judgments of the courts. well, that's a very bad prognosis.
madam president! in many of the documents that have been put to the vote in this house and that are currently being prepared, there are references to decarbonisation, and decarbonisation in its entirety. the authors refer to the paris agreement. it is therefore worth recalling that it provides for voluntary action, its own raw materials policy and its own path to the co2 reduction target for the signatory countries. the paris agreement cannot therefore be considered as a complete move away from coal, since we can reduce carbon emissions, among other things, by using the latest technologies in the construction of new power units. in transport, for example, we can increase the share of hydrogen as an alternative fuel, which will also help us to reach the so-called ambitious climate goals of the european union. hydrogen can be obtained, inter alia, by the gasification of coal. in poland, for example, a million tons of hydrogen are already produced from other sources each year, and experts estimate that this is enough to power about five million cars annually.
madam president! the first topic of the forthcoming european council will be migration. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of other union acts, including the rules on the application of the schengen acquis, and shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules on the application of the schengen acquis. better late than never, you might say. it would be good if at the upcoming european council, the european council went a step further and said that angela merkel's opening of the doors to refugees in 2015 was illegal and that the governments of countries like hungary and poland were right on migration. this is, however, indirectly echoed in the conclusions of the june council meeting, which did not refer to the mechanism for the compulsory relocation of refugees but to voluntary resettlement. however, it should be remembered that the most important thing is to protect the borders, which is primarily the responsibility of the individual member states, and frontex should only serve to strengthen them. we cannot allow a situation in which a member country loses control of its border to frontex. (the speaker refused to listen to the question indicated by liisa jaakonsaari's raising of the blue card)
madam president! it is surprising that a speech by a former minister at a national party conference of one of the dozens, or perhaps more, of political parties in europe should cause such a stir you were so moved by the comparison of jeremy hunt to the soviet union. i am against sharp comparisons, but i would like to see this standard applied in our house. mr. verhofstadt, who really hates it when people don't want to listen to his speeches, but he himself is reluctant to listen to criticism, because as we see he is not here, compared prime minister orbán to goebbels in this room, although implicitly, but compared him to goebbels, speaking about burning books in front of parliament, and that did not cause such a radical reaction. i am deeply disturbed to hear that in our debate here, the rule of law in relation to illegal immigration has been called xenophobic, obsessive. i think that mr timmermans, the president, a well-known defender of the rule of law, should react to this with determination.
in writing. at first sight, the topics of the forthcoming european council summit remain the same, but the content and details indicate some progress on each of the issues being addressed. the informal meeting of leaders in september narrowed down and defined the areas of joint action that will significantly enhance the union's internal security. it is important that issues that have long been discussed in the european parliament, such as judicial cooperation and the exchange of experience in cybersecurity, are among the priorities of the common agenda of eu leaders. particularly in the run-up to the european elections, it is important that we share both the technology and the strategies to tackle fake content in the cyber sphere. we also look forward to further tangible results of pesco cooperation. the first batch of approved projects was a positive step, but we need more commitment and ambition for the next call for proposals for security cooperation projects. the issue where there is no clear progress is the negotiations on the uk's withdrawal from the eu. both the negative tone of the salzburg meeting and prime minister may's words that leaving the eu without any deal is possible indicate that the situation is serious. for both political and legal stability on both sides, it is necessary to establish the terms of the withdrawal. otherwise, both sides drift into the unknown.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is about transnational corporations, business and human rights. as we know, the private sector is an important partner in achieving the sdgs and in mobilising additional resources for development cooperation, and therefore private sector actors must adapt to the principles of development effectiveness and corporate responsibility. globalization today affects all aspects of life, including business and supply chains. the role of corporations in ensuring respect for human rights is therefore increasingly important and creates a situation where international standards and principles are key to avoiding human rights violations in third countries. unfortunately, there is still a lack of a holistic approach to corporate liability for violations of these rights, and victims face numerous obstacles to access remedies, including judicial ones. despite the european parliament's support for the igwg process and its request for the european union to engage, the european union has expressed concerns about the current state of the process and appears to be still threatened by obstacles that prevent it from engaging in the negotiation process, resulting in a lack of a negotiating mandate. in the view of our political group, the union and its member states should accede to a new, potentially legally binding instrument if their demands are properly incorporated and its mandate should not go beyond what is legally established in the european union. as we know, there are countries that are not participating in this process. the treaty is only effective if a large majority of states ratify and respect it. the present form of the proposed resolution is in many respects at odds with these demands and our group cannot therefore support it and will table an alternative draft. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i have always been in favour of transparency, and so i think that a debate where transparency is considered to be one of the most important elements is important and valuable. on the other hand, i have always been in favour of equal opportunities for doing business, including with those companies that we call transnational or supranational. but i think that some of the proposals that have been dropped in this room are unfortunately leading to a waste of effort. first of all, unrealistic expectations unrealistic legal expectations, including those linked to possible rights of appeal, rights to fight for workers' rights are formulated as if their aim was to throw these rightly formulated demands into the trash. and that's what i'm saying.
in writing. with the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business and supply chains, the role of business in respecting human rights is crucial and needs to be more visible and regulated by law. international standards are of paramount importance in preventing human rights violations in third countries, but despite so much discussion and negotiation on this issue, a common approach to how transnational corporations should comply with them has still not been developed. i would like to express my support for the work of the un intergovernmental working group to develop a binding instrument governing the respect of human rights in the activities of multinational companies. the efforts made so far represent a major step forward in the protection and promotion of these rights. i also believe that the negotiations on the future treaty must be conducted in the most transparent way possible and include clear objectives and measurable indicators for the european union's participation in the next negotiating rounds. i would like to ask for a clarification of the role of the european parliament so that the union's contribution to the work of the intergovernmental working group is as real and constructive as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when discussing the situation in yemen, it's worth remembering a few basic facts. first, the current conflict began three years ago with the overthrow of a legally elected president by the shiite houthis backed by iran. secondly, of course war crimes are committed by both sides, we have to be honest and objective here, but it is worth remembering that there was a resolution in the un security council a few months ago in february that condemned iran's participation and breach by iran of the arms embargo and it was vetoed by the russian federation. and thirdly, the conflict in yemen is a breeding ground for terrorist groups like al qaeda, and hezbollah is training rebels in yemen. finally, speaking on behalf of the eec, we call in our draft resolution for negotiations and a peaceful end to the conflict.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as i underlined in my opening remarks, in yemen, we face not a regular humanitarian crisis, but a real humanitarian catastrophe. as i have always said, unfortunately, in humanitarian problems and in humanitarian crises, we do not have humanitarian solutions – we have only political solutions. this is why, as the european union, we focus on some initiatives, diplomatic initiatives, including behind the scenes, to promote a ceasefire across yemen, and of course, above all, our strategy remains peace in this very painful situation in yemen. we have made a lot of diplomatic efforts and taken a lot of initiatives, but up till now the situation remains as you describe. i heard many suggestions from you regarding the situation, but you know that in such a situation, you have to be pragmatic. we have to see the situation on the ground and our role as the european union, as a regional and global actor, in order to be and to stay result oriented. frankly, what i see in yemen, what i can handle every day, is a very painful experience, as my compatriot takis hadjigeorgiou said, but at the same time, i would like to remind you that in some critical decisions, including inside our institutions, especially within the european council, we need unanimity. so you can imagine that it is not easy to find common european positions in many of our efforts, initiatives or decisions. we have to continue to provide humanitarian and development assistance. i already gave you specific figures about our contribution in this difficult situation. we remain the biggest humanitarian and development donor in yemen, but we have to accept the hard reality: our efforts and our initiatives to change the situation on the ground, unfortunately, have limits.
in writing. the war in yemen has been going on since 2015 and unfortunately, there are many indications that ending the conflict quickly will be extremely difficult. the war has already claimed tens of thousands of lives. unfortunately, they're largely civilians, including children. the latest reports from save the children are particularly disturbing. as many as five million children are starving or severely malnourished, and tens of thousands more are likely to be unsalvageable and simply starve to death this year. this is one of the biggest humanitarian disasters we face in the world today. i therefore believe that the political action taken recently by the un to restart the peace process must go hand in hand with increased humanitarian aid. i hope we can get the rebels to talk, but it's equally important that we get the civilian population on the ground without undue delay with the aid they need to survive.
mr. chairman, please! i think there's a word that's been going around in this debate that's been unspoken, and that's "trust". trusting us as mps, but also as customers, to industry. i think the dieselgate thing is still going strong around here. we need to take care of the environment and the climate, and create incentives for the production and use of low and zero-emission cars. i believe that environmental objectives can also be reconciled with the pursuit of jobs and economic growth. this is not just the case for manufacturers, but for the whole automotive sector in general, of which a large proportion are small and medium-sized enterprises, and these too should not be forgotten. the question is whether the proposed reduction target of 35-40% will allow such synergies to be maintained. i don't think that's the most important thing. what matters is that we want to do it. the most effective solutions are those that are widely accepted not so much by producers but, above all, by consumers, also because of the size of their portfolios. a reduction rate that is too high can raise that price too rigorously, and as a consequence, in countries where incomes are lower, it can even temporarily increase co2 emissions because there is no money to buy new, relatively more expensive cars. i think we can all agree that the most energy efficient cars are electric cars. but on the other hand, let's not say that other technologies are worse. hydrogen, biogas - i think especially in the next generation - second, third and fourth - we should accept that too.
in writing. cars are the final link in the chain of energy flow from primary to usable kinetic energy. therefore, their harmful environmental impact should be measured by a comprehensive efficiency indicator, calculated as the ratio of the efficiency of each link in the chain. the comprehensive efficiency estimate for combustion engine vehicles is the production of fuel in refineries (petrol or oil) from oil with an energy efficiency of e.g. on average around 50%, and then used in vehicles with an efficiency for mechanical propulsion of around 20%, giving a final efficiency of around 10%. for the propulsion of vehicles with electric motors, we can start from about 40% of the energy efficiency of the generation of electricity and about 80% of the energy efficiency of its use in the energy chain, which gives an estimated final vehicle efficiency of about 30%. as you can see, the energy efficiency of 'electric vehicles' would be about three times higher than the energy efficiency of combustion vehicles. assuming that 1% efficiency increase is about a 2% reduction in co2 emissions, we see that a complete switch to electric mobility would result in a 40% reduction in co2 emissions. however, the transition to electric mobility is fraught with challenges. the available capacity of the power plant should be significantly increased and new power plants built. there will still be problems with the electricity storage. but i think in the near future, hybrids will be the basis for new market solutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the polish delegation of the ecr group strongly supports the basic directions of the reform of the vat system at european level. both legislative initiatives are part of the policy of the current polish government, which has taken decisive action to tighten the vat system in poland from the outset. i have to say, he's been quite spectacular in this area. we are therefore supporting all the so-called four pillars of the new regulation. however, we do not support the concept of the certified taxpayer. i would point out that the council and the commission have long since agreed to abandon this project and that our parliamentary consultation is therefore not keeping up with developments. isn't that a little weird? the polish delegation to the ecr will therefore abstain in the vote on this report. we fully support the draft report on the harmonization of vat rates. poland has been trying to give this reform a direction for the last two years. in my view, the draft report balances the two aspects of legislation: flexibility and the minimum harmonisation needed, and deserves recognition and support.
mr. chairman, please! admittedly, in these reports, the current vat system has allowed fraudsters to extract billions of euros from the eu budget for decades. it's been known for decades, and you've done nothing about it. why are you only now getting into this, and who is responsible for creating such a pathological system? if it takes you all these years to notice the elephant in the room, to understand something so simple, i'm afraid the taxpayers can't keep up with the pace of economic education. because before you realize that the eu subsidies don't work, that your communist agricultural policy doesn't work, that the whole social security system is leading to disaster, that all this socialism in general is one big failure, then there will be no stone left in this europe. and i support the direction that avoids tax evasion, but i am not strongly in favour of tax harmonization, because that means an increase for most of us.
mr president, the two reports we are discussing today represent an important step in the direction of completing the definitive vat regime in the european union. the report by mr szanyi makes progress in three crucial areas: firstly, member states shall adopt a maximum of two reduced rates, which shall not be lower than 5%. these reduced rates would only be allowed for goods, the supply of which is in the genuine public interest. this will reduce dispersion in the vat rates across the eu and benefit final consumers. secondly, the weighted average vat rate should be at least 12%. thirdly, while the derogations and the reduced rates will continue to be determined by individual member states, they will also be available to exporters from all other member states. together, these changes will help achieve a level playing field in the single market, eliminate distortions and allow for a consistent application of the country of destination principle. at the same time, they will give more freedom to member states in fixing the national vat rates according to their priorities. the other report by mr kofod aims at harmonising and simplifying certain rules in the vat system. in particular, harmonising rules in vat treatment of chain transactions will significantly reduce the scope for vat fraud across the eu. this is especially true when it comes to so-called ‘triangular transactions’ or ‘carousel schemes’, which had been one of the most popular vat fraud schemes in intra-community trade. mr president, while acknowledging the progress achieved, i have to stress that the definitive vat system is still a largely unfinished construction. i call on the commission, and especially on the member states, to show more resolve and determination in completing this important work.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. i'll remind you of a saying that we all know, the words of saint john: "in the beginning was the word". and we all know that great things begin with words, but terrible and vile things can also begin with words, and we all know that words can turn into deeds. unfortunately, we are witnessing today in many parts of our union the use of verbal aggression, the division of society into the better and the worse, the patriots and the traitors. permission to be heard in audio-visual, printed and online media. stories of refugees bringing parasites and disease. this is like the most heinous propaganda from the darkest moment in european history. and those words are often followed by the approval of fascist marches calling for violence, racism, homophobia. excesses such as burning a jewish puppet or symbolically hanging portraits of politicians who clearly articulate the need to protect the weak, minorities and call for respect for european values are already taking place. we have examples of this in the czech republic, poland, hungary, malta. in some countries, the public media incites hatred against political opponents of the government; in others, the government itself does so. and words are beginning to turn into actions, as we saw recently in italy. i also mention the unfortunate excesses in chemnitz. and we can't pretend that nothing is happening or that these are the internal problems of several countries, because this terrible plague is spreading. the fight against this disease is first and foremost the responsibility of the member states, and the commission - thank you, commissioner - must work very closely with them, continuously developing an action plan and consistently enforcing it. and finally, mr. chairman, auschwitz is in my constituency. at the entrance to the fourth block there is a plaque on which is engraved the phrase of the philosopher santayana: "who does not remember history, is condemned to re-live it". ladies and gentlemen, let's learn from this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, hans-georg maassen, the head of the federal office for the protection of the constitution, was dismissed after declaring that the chemnitz manhunt was politically correct fake news, as was a video posted online to support the claim. we still don't know exactly what happened in chemnitz. i'm surprised there's so few questions about this case. but one thing is certain: germany has a problem with fundamental rights, and the european union authorities are keeping a strange discreet silence. because either there is something wrong with the german society, or people are being hunted in the streets, or the authorities of the federal republic are misleading their society, hiding the truth and manipulating public opinion simply to exercise power effectively. out, out, the tertium non datur. germany has a problem, and the european union authorities, who claim to defend fundamental rights, are not really interested in it at all. it's high time we took an interest in this, because one thing is certain. we act as if germany is above the law.
mr. chairman, please! it's characteristic that mrs. ward has not accepted our blue card, masquerading as a democracy, and silencing the democratic debate. why did you want this debate? why did you want to have this whole debate? the only element of debate that's here, which is the ability to ask questions, you're throwing out. what was that for, anyway? you only want to hear your own voice on the wall. you're fanatics and you don't want to talk about it. the title of this debate is outrageous, it's all about neo-fascist violence. and you don't want to talk about antif? libertarians are afraid to arrange a meeting with the president of my party, who has nothing to do with fascism. the left has more in common with fascism, because they were national socialists. and they're afraid to have a meeting because they're afraid that antifa... (the president cut off the speaker)
(starting to speak out of the microphone)... you're the one who's responsible for every time this debate is used to justify communism in this room. mr zarianopoulos or ms forenza can give their parties any name they wish. but in memory of the victims of nazism, please don't do this. mr. postle, what are you doing? on the day that the red flag was hung, the polish government ministers who fought the whole war against germany were rotting in the bolshevik prison in lubyanka. and you should honor the memory of these victims of communism.
mr. chairman, please! i think that as far as the right to ask questions is concerned, you should not punish by taking away the right to ask questions from those who have the right to do so, but at most from a member who has exceeded his time. he may have a short answer about the time he has exceeded this right to speak, not those who would like to ask a critical question. this is a complete misunderstanding.
i was critical of the president's interpretation of the withdrawal of the right to ask questions because of the overtime of the speakers, but in this case i want to be critical of the president's critics. catch-the-eye is a collection of normal statements in a debate. and each of those statements can be followed up with a question. there is a practice that refuses to do so, but it has no basis in the rules. and the chairman is absolutely right about that.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my appreciation first of all to the people of estonia, who in a special way - like many nations subjugated by the soviet union - have shown a desire for freedom, a will to live, a will to be independent. a nation of exceptional intelligence and wisdom. i can join in this praise of your speech, mr prime minister, first of all because it expresses motives which are important for the future of europe. i think the prime minister has demonstrated pro-european pragmatism. pro-european pragmatism, not pro-european centralism, because pro-european pragmatism is perhaps the most appropriate response to the contemporary challenges facing our countries and the european union as a whole. this is the price of security, of the security of europeans, of closer cooperation in the field of defence policy, but also of cooperation with the north atlantic treaty. i can very clearly subscribe to those views. at the same time, the prime minister expressed his scepticism about what president verhofstadt often presents in this chamber, his scepticism about the centrality of the union, about reforms which would put smaller countries in a worse position. the basis of european solidarity is partnership, respect for all, including the smaller countries of the european union. i fully share the concern that formal reforms, a new form of revision of the treaties, could lead to this danger: the danger of diminishing european partnership, european solidarity, the position of smaller countries. and finally, one very important element: the commitment to a competitive market, to an open competitive market, to the liberalization of services. and it must be said that it is not only the populism that the prime minister has spoken of that is the force limiting economic competition in europe. protectionism is much broader, and it is also present in the policies of the eu's mainstream parties. i am very pleased that the prime minister has chosen to focus on this theme, on a competitive market that will give strength to the european economy.
prime minister of estonia. – mr president, first of all, thank you for all the kind words and comments, especially from my estonian colleagues. i will try to focus and give as many concrete answers as i can. tunne, i really appreciate what you said about estonia, our country. i would like to thank you especially for your personal commitment and support. regarding the social pillar, i am proud that we agreed the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights during the estonian presidency. we did so in gothenburg in sweden. it was a very important achievement and now is the time to move on with the implementation of the pillar principles. regarding the question about the baltic states and our energy market, it is so important today that we have good connections between finland and estonia – i mean two estlinks. it is very good that we will have the balticconnector and of course we need good cooperation if we are adopting the lng. as i said before, for all three baltic states it is very important to synchronise our energy market with the rest of europe and with the middle of europe. as regards defence, both quality and quantity are important. efficiency is important, but we also must spend to percentages. regarding eu defence cooperation, we have taken big steps forward with european defence initiatives and i am proud that during the estonian presidency we achieved a lot in this area. now is the time to implement the decisions taken, for example, the pesco projects. in this way, we can deliver more security for our citizens. in addition, i cannot stress enough the importance of preserving transatlantic unity and the need to advance eu and nato cooperation. as for foreign policy, the proposal on the table is worth exploring, but we remain cautious. regarding different speeds, when it comes to the question about one, two or three speeds, we always answer with a sense of unity and the same direction. i do not like a divided europe and more divisions. regarding taxation, i can only repeat that it is a national matter, but in digital tax, i think that we really need global solutions. regarding energy security, our views on nord stream 2 are well known. in our opinion, the interconnections between the union and third countries must be subject to the rules covering the energy union. the interconnectors with third countries should seek to diversify the union’s energy sources and increase the union’s security of supply. nord stream 2 does not meet those criteria. it is a political project of the russian federation. this opinion is shared by a number of eu member states. as i said, the energy union is the key to estonia’s connections. the nordic energy market has brought down energy prices and provided more services and opportunities. i would like to thank mr hökmark for his support. i am one hundred percent in agreement with you. we believe in digital solutions in health issues as well. we introduced our ideas during our presidency and stand ready to discuss them. we are not in denial regarding the debate over taxes. it is important that we fight tax evasion, cooperate closely and have similar tax bases. i know that your next discussion here in parliament, in the afternoon session, will be about the risks of money laundering. if i may, i would like to share my views about money laundering. there was a question about this as well. estonia has zero tolerance for money laundering. combating these kinds of crimes is a clear priority for us and it is important that the estonian financial supervision authority discovered suspicious transactions in the estonian branch, for example, of danske bank. as a result, in 2015 the branch had to close its high-risk non—resident portfolio. however, since danske bank is a danish credit institution, its banking supervision is primarily carried out by the danish authorities. in recent years, we have significantly broadened the fight against money laundering in estonia. however, this is a continuous process and a major challenge for the european union as well. currently, the estonian authorities are working with denmark and other countries to investigate whether the requirements for combating money laundering in 2009 to 2014 were fulfilled or were not met at the estonian branch of danske bank. the prosecutor’s office has commenced criminal proceedings. in conclusion, as i said at the beginning of my speech, we are building a future every day. what unites us in the eu is much more that than what divides us. by having common policies, we have been able to make a difference. we europeans are stronger together and i hope we will spare no efforts in securing our collective interests and values in the world. i am very appreciative of all the members of the european parliament and the president of parliament, mr antonio tajani. (applause)
in writing. - prime minister! i ask you to try to convince the heads of state or government in the debate on the new financial framework that the funding of erasmus+ for the years 2021-2027 should be tripled. the programme is the most popular and appreciated eu initiative supporting activities in the fields of education, training, youth and sport. erasmus has enabled millions of citizens to both study and train abroad and to work on joint international and cross-sectoral projects for new, innovative solutions in education and training. the programme contributes significantly to the personal development and upskilling of its participants and is therefore an important tool in the fight against youth unemployment. through the exchange of good practice and the development of school and youth workers, erasmus is also a driver for improving the quality of education in the member states. prime minister! education and training is the best investment in the future of the european union. erasmus has been running for 30 years and the demand for participation is far beyond its budgetary capacity. therefore, at least a tripling of its budget is necessary to ensure that we can maintain the success of erasmus and increase public support for our actions.
mr. chairman, please! we have a pretty simple situation when it comes to voting. the ambitious task of unifying vat in the area of emerging economies and new technologies has been undertaken, but also with specific tasks. i would like to highlight three in particular: the need to reduce the cost of compliance and the complexity of the procedures for companies; to reduce the revenue losses in member states associated with non-compliance; and, thirdly, to ensure that companies in the european union are not disadvantaged in relation to companies outside the european union. these three elements are the ones i wanted to focus on.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament's report points to a number of actions suggesting that not only is a new directive needed to allow for harmonisation or additional regulation between the various parties in this big pharmaceutical business. i am drawing attention to this because in my view what we voted for does not guarantee satisfactory progress. but i do believe that this challenge was necessary, even if it is too late.
mr. chairman, please! we've been building a community for over 60 years. it seems therefore that it is high time to harmonise many fields, industries and sectors, including medical technology. especially when it comes to what i think is the most important thing in life, which is your health. as we've said before, health often depends on treatment, on the use of medical technology, and therefore drugs, medical devices, and these are sometimes ineffective. they're usually very expensive. harmonizing the assessment of effects, not just effects, but also the efficacy of medical devices and drugs can lead to us reducing the bureaucracy when it comes to the marketing of new drugs, and on the other hand, we may increase the efficacy of these drugs. that's the point.
mr. chairman, please! this is another irresponsible resolution of this parliament. once again, you pass a law without knowing the facts, and then others have to worry about how to enforce it. if the aim of this parliament is to get to a situation where only members of parliament and european officials can afford to drive, then i think we are going in that direction. if this is your idea for solving the traffic problem on the bridge in strasbourg, then i really congratulate you. i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! the protection of the environment, including air, is perhaps one of the most important goals of our civilization. it is worth the effort and the money that is put into this important work. but everything must be done in the right time frame, rationally, reasonably, so that one good does not overwhelm another good. one of those goods that i mentioned at the beginning is the natural environment, a clean, healthy natural environment, but the other equally important good is the human being, his family, his work, his life, his development opportunities. the state and the international community are also such assets, and therefore the objectives we set for ourselves in the field of environmental protection should take account of the needs of people, society and the countries of the international community. i think that we would have had a chance of doing so here if we had accepted a compromise solution, but we have gone much further as a parliament and that is not a rational and sensible solution.
mr. chairman, please! technical corrections to the vat directive are necessary. i see this directive through the lens of the enormous problems with e-publication. it should be remembered that more than ten years ago, electronic services were subject to very different rates in different countries: zero, 5%, 22% and even 23%. a few days ago the council agreed that it was electronic services, in this case e-books, that would benefit from reduced rates. the debate on this directive shows how much we have to do. and i'm very glad that this task has been undertaken. i supported the directive, i supported the report and i hope that the pace of response to the changing business environment for vat will be faster and better.
mr. chairman, please! this report is just a wishing well concert. you want to fund everything at the taxpayer's expense. there's nothing you wouldn't promise people, people who live far away from other people. i don't know why, because if living in a secluded area doesn't pay, then let people move to a place that does, instead of sitting in the middle of nowhere where you're going to send them public transportation at taxpayer expense. we just passed a carbon-cutting bill in the same session, and now you're going to let buses go up into the mountains instead of down into the city and emit carbon dioxide. you just don't know what you want. you guys need to think about where you're really going with this. i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! we pay a lot of attention in the european parliament, but not only, to urban policy. and it's hardly surprising that the vast majority of people, especially in developed countries, live in cities. the contribution of rural and mountain areas to gdp in individual countries is also minimal, traceable. but equality, equity, sustainability - these values require us to treat rural, mountainous, remote areas and the people who live there, the local communities, in the right way. i just want to make one point, so that our discussion doesn't turn out to be that we're not considering the needs of these areas and these people. look at how much money is set aside each year and in each financial perspective, whether it is under the cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy, for these very purposes, for these very areas, for these very communities.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we have to look at the inevitable cause and effect relationship in the economy. if we tamper with voluntary contracts in a way that forces someone to pay more than they bargained for in the market, then some contracts will not be fulfilled. some contracts will be broken and people will have to support the few who stay in work. but in the case of these contracts, if they are held at higher forced prices, they simply increase the cost of production and increase the prices of goods and services. we'll be able to buy less. we'll be the poorest. and if we can buy less, consumer demand falls, so does production, so, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to use common sense, because ignorance in economics leads to sabotage. let's not be the place that causes the economic disaster of all of europe. let's think about this a little bit more rationally. some of the demagogic words sound great, but they don't get anybody.
madam president! in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that the effectiveness of experiments in europe and the world with unconditional basic income or other forms of guaranteed income has not been sufficiently positively evaluated. experiments in finland, france and the new italian government, which wants to pay every unemployed or poor person €780 a month from 1 january, have not been evaluated positively so far. the commission notes that the swiss authorities have not provided any evidence that the scheme is compatible with the internal market. experts point to the negative aspects of this concept: strong wage pressure from those already employed and less motivation to work and look for work, as well as a strong incentive to intensify immigration processes to europe. moreover, to finance such programs, a much larger progression of income tax would be required, as this tax is widely cited as the source of... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! if one has a right to some evidence, then someone else has an obligation to provide that evidence. promise to help at someone else's expense, mrs. agee, that's not charity, that's theft. and if it came out of your paycheck, i understand. but if you're promising at the taxpayer's expense, it's just a shame that you're in a faction that has freedom in its name. what kind of freedom is that? if one man must work for another man, it is slavery, not freedom. this is slavery. at the same time, you acknowledge that 23% of people in europe are still at risk of poverty. it means that your social policies don't work, but they encourage people to be poor, or at least to pretend to be poor. because if we reward behavior, we have more of it in society. if we reward people for doing nothing, for idleness, for laziness, for pretending to be poor, we'll have more of these people. and at the same time, we punish them for doing good work, because then we take away their money for those who don't do good work.
madam president! a guaranteed minimum income is a concept according to which every citizen of working age, whether working or not, should be guaranteed and, if necessary, paid by the state a minimum income that will provide them with social security, a certain minimum necessary for survival. a guaranteed minimum income is thus a social and political concept that aims to combat poverty, and de facto in various forms in most countries of the european union such a minimum social security is provided. it is not universal usually different types of social benefits, social housing, benefits require certain conditions to be met. the system is often complicated, but it is, and the question is whether we should therefore move towards a guaranteed income. i see, of course, the positive, the pragmatic aspects of this solution, the simplicity of this concept. however, this solution, which is contrary to the demands of social justice and the european social pillar, has its shortcomings. guaranteeing a minimum income to everyone regardless of employment status can be demotivating and discourage entire groups from entering and remaining in the labour market. the question is, who's gonna pay for it? i therefore believe that the first priority should be to discuss minimum standards of employment and pay, leaving the social policy for non-working citizens to the member states.
madam president! for several years now, we have been discussing a minimum income that would be available to all citizens, whether they are working or not. and the significance of this idea is that it's also being talked about by the heads of companies like tesla and google. one of the arguments for this approach is that the robotization and automation of the economy will lead to a situation where there will be no jobs for everyone. while the idea seems noble and driven by concern for the public, the experience of the minimum income guarantee is not optimistic. in finland, an experiment was carried out in recent years on a group of unemployed people living in selected areas of the country. the project ended unexpectedly this year. although there are no official results yet, initial reports indicate that it was a failure. first of all, it did not translate into an increase in the employment of the unemployed. bad, because it reinforced the argument that a guaranteed minimum income would lead to a permanent withdrawal from the labour market rather than an increase in proactivity. we had similar experiences in france and switzerland. so i would recommend discretion and caution in discussing this matter. a guaranteed minimum income will not eliminate corruption, precarious work, illegal employment, or unemployment, which all contribute to poverty. we should focus our energy on activities that activate and empower the unemployed, activities that push for decent work for everyone, activities that support women in particular to successfully balance family and work responsibilities. i think it would be a better idea if it was aimed at the retired people who have worked all their lives.
madam president! last week, walking down the street in brussels, i met a young man who was collecting money. he begged. but he had a little note that said what he was collecting the money for. he was saving for beer. a few days later, in krakow, i was walking down the street and i met a young man who played the violin beautifully. he was raising money. he also had a little note that said he was collecting money for the conservatory, for college, for studying. both cases, you might say, are similar. one of them was collecting money. he wanted someone to give him a donation, and someone else wanted a donation. only one of them offered nothing in return for this donation. he just lay there waiting for the money to buy him a drink. the other offered to donate a beautiful game, and he was also collecting for a noble purpose, to educate himself, to develop himself, so that he could give us all something wonderful, beautiful, his artistic skills. i'm asking if they were both supposed to put money in the can. i don't think so, you know. help can't be blinded by it. help must be addressed by name, then it will be real help. aid must also be fair and it must be fair to the beneficiaries, that is to say, to those who need it. i think that the same should not be given to those who lie on the sidewalk and want beer, alcohol, wine, and those who want to educate themselves, want to develop themselves, want to have children and then work on the development of their children. but it also has to be fair to those who give the money, and therefore to those who work.
madam president! i have to admit that i'm a little surprised by this debate, because we're talking here -- some people are talking -- about the market, about the minimum wage and about fairness. we're just talking about human dignity at this point, and that's the subject of our debate. human dignity, that is, those who for various reasons, for life, for misfortune, for disability, are unable to earn an income from work, and we want to tell them whether they should remain under this proverbial bridge, or whether expenses such as food, housing, clothing can be financed from this minimum income, which, it seems, can provide this minimum of dignity. i understand that this is a joint task. the european level is the rules, the principles, and the national level is the amount, because the value of one euro in luxembourg is different from the value of one euro in bulgaria, and the addressees. i think we can solve this problem together.
madam president! it's probably about me. mr. zdechovský was speaking just now. he was taking part in the debate. yes, thank you very much. as a member of the committee on terrorism, i have repeatedly encountered the fundamental problem of cooperation between services, and especially between states. this is arguably the most sensitive, if not the most insufficient, part of counter-terrorism cooperation in europe. looking at the increase in cases over 15 years, more than tenfold, i would certainly emphasize that this debate is needed, and the document itself prepared in connection with the reform of this basic institution is necessary. that's what i'd call it. i wanted to thank the initiators and also to say that i not only support these activities that reform institutions, but i regret that my country, my country poland did not sign up to the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. i think we should change that, along with the hungarians and the swedes.
(starting speech outside the microphone) 99% of the assets of criminals are not confiscated, not even secured. this is a very dramatic situation, which shows how inefficient the european union's justice system is and how it is failing to deal with this problem. i should add that terrorist groups spend only a few percent of their revenues on terrorist attacks. it's consumed in a completely different way. the fact that we are taking this decision and this debate today is a testament to our determination, but i will stress at once the late determination. i hope that the adoption of this regulation by vote tomorrow will make it easier to secure and confiscate criminal assets more quickly and efficiently.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the adoption of a new regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders will facilitate the seizure and collection of assets by national authorities at national level and improve the cross-border enforcement of freezing orders and confiscation orders. this regulation introduces the principle of mutual recognition, which means that all judicial decisions in criminal matters in one eu country will normally be directly recognised and enforced by another member state. this will prevent criminals from moving their assets across the eu. the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets are very effective tools in the fight against crime and terrorist financing, as they deprive criminals of the proceeds of their crimes and prevent the use of those funds to finance new criminal activities, including terrorism. furthermore, confiscation allows for the compensation of victims and the respect of victims' rights to compensation. it also provides additional funds for investments in law enforcement or other prevention initiatives. for these reasons, i shall be voting in favour of this report.
in writing. i think it is entirely justified to ask the ep and the council to prepare as a matter of urgency a draft regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders. the project must be a response to the activities of criminals in europe who seek material benefits by exploiting various loopholes in european law. experience shows that taking the benefit of criminal activity hard is the most effective way to combat crime, including organised crime. according to europol, the various illegal markets operating in the european union generate around eur 110 billion a year, or 1% of the union's gdp. police practitioners point out that only a fraction of this pool is recovered, and the vast majority of the profits go to criminals. you have to fight it, of course. it is important that these methods of combating will be included in a regulation which, as the eu's supreme legal act, will have to be directly applied by all eu countries. the proposed regulation should not only directly concern criminals, but should also cover confiscation against third parties where there is no doubt that they are the ones who dispose of the proceeds of criminal activity.
in writing. judicial cooperation and mutual trust are essential to combating crime, which increasingly crosses the borders of the european union. i am therefore pleased that this cooperation is also supported by a solid legal framework and subsequent instruments that will hamper criminal activity within the union. it is now estimated that 98,9% of any criminal proceeds are not confiscated and remain at the disposal of criminals. the new arrangements will make it easier to freeze assets and confiscate criminal assets across the union. this will, on the one hand, protect these funds from being used for further criminal activity and, on the other, ensure that victims' rights to compensation and restitution in cross-border cases are respected. in practice, a confiscation order issued by a court in one member state will be recognised and enforced in another member state within a maximum of two days. this will significantly speed up criminal law proceedings also in the field of preventive confiscation.
the next item is the report by anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a framework for the free movement of non-personal data in the european union (com (2017) 0495 c8-0312/2017 2017/0228 cod)) (a8-02018).
vice—president of the commission. – mr president, a digital society cannot exist without data. if europe is to get the best from the opportunities offered by digital progress, data has to flow freely with no obstacles and no constraints. data feeds into innovation. in turn that makes the kind of technologies possible which bring new jobs and improve our environment and daily lives: the ‘internet of things’, artificial intelligence, fintech, ‘smart cities’ and electronic health systems, to mention just a few. the new regulation complements the principle of free movement of personal data that is enshrined in the general data protection regulation. it guarantees the free movement of all data and does so by leaving the general data protection regulation completely untouched. this regulation does not cover personal data, but it does for non—personal data what the general data protection regulation has already done for personal data, namely free movement across the european union. it has three important elements. firstly, it prohibits unjustified requirements about where data should be localised. these restrictions are only allowed in exceptional circumstances where this is justified by public security. secondly, there will be a mechanism to make sure that regulatory authorities still have access to data stored in another member state. they may also impose penalties on users that do not provide access to data, but they may not deviate from the free flow principle by relocalising the data for a long period without the commission first giving its permission. thirdly, the regulation will make the eu market for cloud services more fluid. it allows the industry to develop self—regulatory codes of conduct so that users will be able to move data more easily between it systems and switch between cloud service providers. this should be done within the next two years. the regulation on the free flow of non—personal data has gone through the legislative process at record speed. the commission only proposed it last september so the time taken to reach this point of conclusion has been a little more than a year. we have been helped enormously by the political will to conclude quickly both in parliament and the council, which have been calling for this initiative since the beginning of this commission’s mandate in office.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. my dear colleagues! barriers to data access and sharing - as we all know - can prevent the creation of innovative products, services and solutions. such practices undermine the full potential of the data-driven economy and are thus a drag on the european union's economic growth. i therefore welcomed the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the free movement of non-personal data, expecting strong action to counter the trend towards national legislation requiring providers to locate data in a specific territory. the intensive work we have carried out in the european parliament is an expression of our support for the need for the union to take swift legislative action to counter unjustified obstacles to the free flow of non-personal data, such as location requirements, and to promote self-regulation by defining its own framework guidelines on data portability. in this way, the draft regulation should create incentives for innovation and thus encourage more users to use the services provided by new and small enterprises entering new markets.
mr. chairman, please! i've been living in schengen for over ten years, i've been driving around the european union, i don't notice the borders because they're invisible, but they're still there. and it's these barriers that make us evolve slower than we could, and that's why we have to constantly, systematically, step by step, overcome them. and today we are taking another good step towards achieving a true digital single market in the european union. the removal of data localisation restrictions will not only contribute to economic growth, but will be another element that connects citizens in a very concrete and tangible way within our union. these new rules, and in particular the principle of the free flow of non-personal data across borders, will make it easier for businesses to do business. yes, it will be easier, more efficient and cheaper for businesses to operate in different countries and no longer have to duplicate it systems and store them in different locations. so with this regulation, we will make businesses feel more confident entering new markets and increasingly using cloud services, and research shows that the new rules on the free flow of non-personal data will generate an additional €8 billion per year for the eu economy. so i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs annie maria corazza bildt, for her continuous efforts to harmonize the single market, for the extremely effective work on this report with the co-rapporteurs, with the european commission, also with the council, for the fact that this matter has been dealt with so effectively at such a record pace. this is a really big step in the common market. and i ask all my colleagues to vote tomorrow for this regulation.
mr. chairman, please! we live in a time when we must build on the strength of the european union - a strength that provides the basis for the development and therefore the prosperity of the member states and their citizens. the free movement of people, capital and services has become the cornerstone of the single market, but 60 years ago and for decades to come, those who have worked for the community could not have imagined that data would be so important for development. today, we should add to this catalogue of the single market the freedom of movement of data. it is, in this day and age, in this digital economy, essentially the sine qua non of development. development, on the other hand, builds the well-being of the citizens of the european union. the barriers that have existed in the european market up to now no longer have any justification. moreover, they are barriers to the development of european companies, not just digital ones, but actually all those that function in the economy. they are also a barrier to our global competitiveness. that's why, first of all, i support this dossier. secondly, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly, and thirdly, i believe that we need to continue to pursue precisely this type of approach, which will deepen the integration of the european union.
if you'll allow me this unusual reflection, it was my great pleasure to chair this debate. it is very rare, very rare indeed, that there are such unanimous words of appreciation for the rapporteur, such a high level of appreciation by the rapporteur for the cooperation with the counter-rapporteurs, that the conservatives applaud the social democrats and the liberals applaud the gue speeches, that the president of the european commission applauds - and i have seen at least twice - the speeches of individual members and that your speech is so warmly received with applause in this chamber. thank you so much! but you can do something together, you can do something effectively, and we're doing it. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 october 2018.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on the risk of money laundering in the eu banking sector (2018/2860 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i agree with all honourable members who declared here that it must be our common priority to fight money laundering. there are at least two serious reasons. many of you mentioned here that we have to stop the reputational risk to the european banking and financial sector. the second thing has been mentioned many times here, the illicit money – the money which comes to europe to be laundered – serves in many cases to finance organised crime, trafficking in human beings, drugs trafficking and terrorism. so this is indeed connected with the previous discussions we had here today which concerned the need to be better in ensuring security in europe. i would like to answer the direct question of mr giegold, there were two questions: when will i guarantee that there will be no money laundering in europe and the second was about when the commission will do something. maybe it’s not exact but you asked about the activities and actions of the commission, the current ones and what are the plans. the second question was on the capacities, so let me briefly answer. while the role of the commission is clear, we have in fact four roles here: set the rules, enforce the rules in the member states, monitor the application of the rules, and then the forth role, which i call a fireman role, to act in case there is an incident, which are the cases we are talking about today here. first on the rules, as i said before, i think that the eu has the best system compared with the global systems, or the systems which work outside europe. they cover prevention, which cover very thorough due diligence, checking of further suspicious transactions, detection, investigation, penalisation. in our european rules, the roles and obligations of different players and different institutions and also concrete people are very precisely described. there are roles for the european union, commission, member states, institutions at the level of the member states, be it supervisory body, be it law enforcement level, be it financial intelligence unit and, of course, the banking sector and other sectors which are concerned. there is also a role for individuals, and it will be very interesting after the investigation in denmark and estonia is be finalised – which i hope will be next year, because the investigations already started – to understand better who failed, what failed. were there rules which allowed these failures, by leaving some gaps and loopholes, or was it the failure at the level of the institutions? was it the supervisor or were there concrete people working in the banks who committed some wrongdoing by negligence or intentional wrongdoing? we will know more, hopefully, as i said, next year. on enforcement, you know that we do a lot to enforce and to guarantee the proper implementation of the 4th anti—money laundering directive (aml) and also that we are helping the member states to prepare for the 5th anti—money laundering directive. both pieces of legislation are dramatically increasing transparency; they are covering other sectors than the banking sector. you asked about the real estate sector; it is being covered now. we are covering cryptocurrencies, which pose a new kind of risk, also for our financial sector. we have issued new standards for financial intelligence units, where we see the gaps in cooperation. coming back to the enforcement of the implementation of the 4th aml, we have launched infringements in the case of 16 member states, we have referred two member states for the lack of notification to the court. so we are pushing very intensively, and i must say that the member states take it seriously and we are in constant dialogue. now a little bit on the monitoring role. we are of course monitoring the situation in all the member states, but the enhanced monitoring, of course, is in the states where we see problems. you know that i am working very intensively on the maltese situation. very probably we will issue an opinion – following the european banking authority’s (eba) findings – on the maltese case in the middle of november. we are monitoring the situation in latvia, and of course now in denmark, estonia, in cyprus and in germany. the detection of problematic places is quite precise thanks to the continuous risk analysis we are doing, and we are monitoring very precisely. the last thing which i wanted to mention is the role of the fireman. the commission acts when something wrong is happening. i think that it shouldn’t be the role of the commission, because we have quite limited competences here. you know that in the case of malta, in the case now of denmark, i asked the european banking authority to go to the country and to run the investigation. this is the core principle which we introduce in the new legislation, that the european banking authority should be equipped with the competences to collect the data, to coordinate and to act in case of first alert that there is something wrong happening. i am sure that if the eba had had the competence before the danske bank problem, there would have been some action between 2007 and 2015 when money laundering in the scope of eur 200 billion was up and running. it would have been a solution. i believe that we are proposing something which will be very practical for these emergency situations. why have such a competence on a european level? well, because if one member state fails, it is a problem for the whole of europe. we have to improve shared management and by taking part of the power we are also taking part of the responsibility, speaking about the european banking authority. i want to urge you to support these proposals because this is based on bad lessons and on our very strong effort and will to improve the situation and not to let these situations and scandals happen again. a last comment on the capacities. for the european banking authority it is foreseen that by 2020 they should have 12 people, but in case of need i am sure that the capacities will be enlarged. what if not this? this is a cardinal and key issue and problem we face in europe, as i said at the beginning, connected with endangering our security. i’m sure that the capacities will be deployed on the necessary level and the same applies for the commission. you know that mr juncker promised to enlarge the capacities in my dg. we have now a very well—working unit dealing with the matters connected with financial crime. we will increase the capacities. the experts who are in my team are now intensively working on the european list of high—risk third countries. everything we promised the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) and the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance (tax3) would happen, we are now doing, because this is a very serious situation and this is a very big task ahead of us. thank you very much for your attention, sorry to be a little bit longer, but i wanted to explain the context and to express my personal strong determination to solve the problems we are facing now.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, thank you again for giving me the floor. i have followed members’ valuable contributions with great interest. i have also heard the input from the commission. there is definitely a problem with money laundering that we need to understand and that we have to solve. the various investigations taking place will add much needed clarity. it is indeed very damaging if the information on money laundering and financing of terrorism does not flow where it should and if no action is taken in good time to remedy the situation. the avenue proposed by the commission could be very helpful in this respect by ensuring that aml rules are effectively supervised across the eu and that different authorities cooperate closely with each other. yesterday, the proposal was presented in the ecofin council and it will now be examined at technical level. as already mentioned, the council will also set out comprehensive and long term measures in this area by december. the presidency will remain available for exchanges on the subject as needed.
in writing. – first, i would like to thank the commissioner for acknowledging our work in the pana and tax3 committees when it comes to the fight against money laundering issues. still, the recent months have shown that despite the eu’s tireless efforts, money laundering in the european union’s banking sector is still an issue costing us billions of euros. the money laundering scandals connected to danske bank, ing, pilatus bank and ablv have shocked many europeans. i do not want to get into the examples of terrorist financing or the laundromat cases... if our rules and the cooperation between member states are so strong, why in some cases did we need the us authorities to help us in finding our own – european – weaknesses? from our pana and tax3 observations hitherto, we know that, for the time being, we probably might not need new institutions, but it is improving member states’ cooperation and information exchange which can facilitate the fight against money laundering. what we need in the era of populism is trust – trust in the institutions and what we do in the eu. fighting against money laundering will bring that. we need to do it.
in writing. we are witnessing a dramatic situation in southern europe, particularly in the mediterranean. the unprecedented influx of migrants into the eu is increasing rather than decreasing month by month. it is a form of human trafficking, which many experts say is more lucrative than drug trafficking! it is high time to call on the european commission and all member states to work together in solidarity to help where these problems are born: at their source, mainly in the territories of african and arab states. only such actions have the potential to make a positive impact and to provide stability in areas threatened by conflict and extreme poverty, which are the main reasons for thousands of people migrating to europe. decades of experience and observation of countries with large numbers of immigrants often show very serious problems with their assimilation and integration into european societies. let us remember that integration without assimilation is pure utopia and wishful thinking! and often, instead of assimilation, we see radicalization and acts of terrorism, as we've seen so many times in recent years. in conclusion, let us act together, in solidarity, but with great prudence, with a particular focus on helping and resolving conflicts at their source, rather than blindly relying on mechanisms such as forced relocation.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the fight against customs fraud is a fight to secure funds for the eu budget. this is important and efforts to combat these crimes should be supported, but... yes, it is. any action of this kind to curb this practice is right, if only it is limited to that. i feel like we're going beyond what we should be accepting. the eu legal framework for customs infringements with sanctions, the unification of sanctions or the transfer of the responsibilities of customs authorities from national to european union level, or the supervision of all member states' customs administrations are in fact steps towards the creation of a federal europe. it's too much centralization at the brussels level. so while condemning all forms of customs fraud and supporting the fight against it, it is difficult to understand why such far-reaching proposals have been included in this draft.
mr. chairman, please! it's hard to hear these stories about how public procurement is just some wonderful ocean of incredible opportunities that are opening up to us. no, government procurement is a necessary evil. public procurement is a situation where officials spend other people's money for other people's needs. it's the worst possible way to spend money, because when a person spends their own money for their own needs, they spend it efficiently and sparingly, and when they spend someone else's money for someone else's needs, they spend it inefficiently and inefficiently. so the first thing to do is to take the state out of everything that is not absolutely necessary. if we back out, we won't have to use public contracts and deal with dishonest officials. you can't clean up corruption. it is not possible to eliminate all the shortcomings of public procurement. if we use the lowest price criterion, it has the advantage that it is objective and you can always see which price was the lowest. if we apply other criteria, social criteria, it may turn out that it is the colleague of the official, no one fulfills these social criteria as well as he. so we're looking at the possibility of corruption. neither is good, so what you should do is to withdraw the state from everything where it is not necessary.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about a fundamentally important issue, and not just because of the huge job market, but also because of the huge money that's involved. the commission has therefore to deplore the very slow pace of implementation of the 2014 directive. today i would like to highlight some important issues related to public procurement. first, there is an absolute need to strengthen the quality criteria over the price criteria, as has been mentioned. and it's about the entire life cycle of a product or service, not just the quality at the start when we place an order. in the present day, it is also necessary to take account of the pace of change in technology and technology. moreover, i would argue that public procurement should not only respond to technological change but also stimulate new change. and perhaps most importantly, we should reduce the bureaucracy of public procurement and increase the flexibility of public procurement. contracting authorities and contractors must be able to react to changes in the conditions for the performance of contracts, and often we are faced with a situation right now, for example, when there is a high growth and a decline in the supply of labour when there is an increase in labour costs, an increase in the prices of raw materials, intermediate products, etc., and there is no flexibility and no change can be made. a lot of contractors just walk out of buildings. these issues are, in my view, of fundamental importance, alongside issues such as increasing the symmetry of access to the eu market and of eu companies to third country markets, or strengthening the role and participation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! public procurement and the law governing it are an extremely important element of the proper functioning not only at national level but above all among local and regional authorities and entities. i am therefore pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to develop a strategy that focuses on six clearly defined priorities. the procedures for public procurement must first of all be transparent and understandable, which is why i support the idea of simplifying them as much as possible. the use of new technologies to create so-called e-procurement, which is entirely online, has great potential in this regard. i would also like to stress the importance of the award criteria being enriched by indicators other than the lowest price. contracting authorities must pay attention to the quality and sustainability of projects.
mr. chairman, please! i admit that i am in favour of limiting the amount of money spent by public entities on public procurement, but i am even more against the conduct of economic activities by public entities, especially by local authorities. i have the impression that this second element has unfortunately been escaping the control of various institutions lately and should be subject to special monitoring. i would like to emphasize two points in praising my colleague carlos coelho, because i think he has done a good job. we have two elements that determine the quality of the bid. on the one hand, there is the legislation, that is, the external financial framework, but on the other hand, there is also the precision of the contract itself. it seems to me that, in the light of the many different tenders that have been submitted recently, this second element in particular leaves much to be desired. and that's what i'm going to talk about at the end of my talk.
member of the commission. – mr president, even from this discussion it is clear how important this subject is. i want to reiterate that the reason we decided to adopt this packet is not because we have bad legislation. the legislation is new, the legislation is fresh, and we think this is good legislation. what is bad is the implementation. this is in response to those of you who are saying that there is not enough flexibility: the legislation gives a lot of flexibility and room to manoeuver. of course, laws must be obeyed, but it gives quite a lot of room for manoeuver, for example, for social services, from the possibility of exclusion via a light regime to integration of all of the social criteria in tendering. for this specific topic, we are preparing some guidelines on social public procurement to help member states. we also share with you the opinion that the digitisation of public procurement is extremely important. on the one hand, it will substantially improve transparency, for example, regarding late payments. on the other hand, we see in the member states that have implemented e—procurement, that it has increased the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the process. only a few member states have introduced such an option, but the commission advocates for the full cycle of public procurement. concerning the local level. many of you mentioned this, and i fully understand it. i had a lot of personal experience with public procurement. let me tell you, it is not european legislation that is a huge burden for them. the burden is the gold-plating: these are additional things added to the legislation during the transposition process. this is a problem. this is a serious problem everywhere in europe, and that’s why we decided that this is not the moment for thinking about any changes in the legislation. but in this partnership that we want to create, this exchange of views and guidance, it’s sometimes fear that really stops people from taking the right decision. they just don’t know, they do not have enough skills and they just don’t know how to do it. some of you mentioned the late transposition of the directive: the largest deficit in such statistics that we have is in germany, because the state of transposition is very late. therefore, we do not have statistics on how it works on the ground. let me just add that since the adoption, we have implemented an ex—ante tool for large investment projects. this has already launched a very concrete service to help public buyers to apply the rules and to avoid problems while tendering for really big sums on infrastructure projects. we have disseminated several hundred examples of good practices on professionalisation. we have published our innovation guidance document, but as i said, the next one will be on the social topic and social public procurement. i’m strongly committed, both to the subject and to the topic, and i am strongly committed to maintaining this discussion with you, because this topic is really worthwhile.
in writing. the 2014 directives not only reviewed the union legal framework for public procurement, but also modernised the laws responsible for it. this broad reform was intended to directly serve the europe 2020 strategy and to make a significant contribution to the growth and competitiveness of the european union. the directives required, inter alia, the digitisation of public procurement. four years after the formal adoption of the directives, there is no full picture of how the directives have been transposed and how they are implemented in individual eu countries. in many member states there were significant delays in transposition, forcing the commission to open infringement proceedings. an important step taken in this report is the introduction of a set of soft measures to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of public procurement rules in the member states and to accelerate national reforms. however, the european parliament reserves the right to request the european commission at any time to propose legislative measures to improve the framework for public procurement.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the chairman of the delegation for relations with belarus, i should be concerned about the completeness of this type of opinion, the completeness of the discussion, and therefore i will not return to the speech of mr štětina or mr tannock or mr auštrevičius. i'm going to add one very important element to my opinion, to my speech. it's a cultural thing. without a doubt, belarus could be proud of its artists, its creativity, its folk culture. they also have a nobel prize winner in literature. but the theater is being harassed. in this case, i want to talk specifically about the belarusian free theater, which is harassed in many ways. artists are being harassed, professors are being harassed, people who help this theater, but even the audience. i am drawing attention to this because i want the opinion that comes out of the european parliament to be really complete, to be complete and to take into account not only the fate and problems of karta 97 or bielsat, but also the artists themselves.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. belarus is an important, close nation, a country bordering three, and therefore more than one tenth, of the european union. this nation today is working on its memory, fighting for its memory. in the minsk kuropats, polish-british historian norman davies estimates that a quarter of a million people were murdered. fortunately, this place has begun to be surrounded by respect and memory. today he's in danger of being desecrated. there are ongoing social protests. archbishop tadeusz kondrusiewicz, the metropolitan of minsk-mohyla, said that the memory of the victims of kuropat, respect for this cemetery (where there are few crosses, because most of the victims are unknown) is a test of humanity, a test of the conscience of this nation. i appeal to the belarusian authorities: prevent the desecration of this place, join in the cultivation of the memory of this great tragedy of humanity, which should unite us all. it's time to condemn all the crimes of communism!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, eu—belarus relations continue to be driven by the policy of critical engagement on the eu side. as always, we remain very attentive to the human rights situation in that country. at the same time, we believe that progress in a variety of fields can be better achieved by means of enhanced cooperation. in this context, eu—belarus relations have come a long way over the last two or three years. we have witnessed the proactive participation of belarus in the eastern partnership. here we see, of course, the resumption of the eu—belarus sectoral dialogues and the signature of the mobility partnership in october 2016. people—to—people contacts, including youth exchanges, are also developing through the eu programmes, such as erasmus+ and horizon 2020, as well as belarus’ accession to the bologna process. we are now close to finalising the joint partnership priorities – which will be the first document of this kind between the eu and belarus – an important building block in our relations, setting the strategic frame for our cooperation in the coming years and in which human rights and freedom of media issues play an important role. we have recently observed an increased willingness by the belarusian authorities to engage constructively with the eu on the human rights dialogue, including during our last meeting on 17 july in minsk. our support for an involvement of civil society will remain an essential part of our policy. the extensive agenda of this dialogue covered also the concerns on the freelance journalists in belarus and the lack of legislation in this field. however, this increased willingness for debate has unfortunately not yet led to measurable legislative improvements in the human rights situation, notably on the freedom of media. in response to the new draft law on the media, the eu used the opportunity of the human rights dialogue to reiterate again the importance of freedom of expression and independence of the media. we called for unrestricted access to the internet. we are very much aware that several independent media organisations are working hard to achieve meaningful results in promoting critical thinking and democratic values, and we value their work very much. the eu at the highest political level has underlined to the belarusian authorities that repressive actions against independent media, including the charter 97 website, are contrary to the international commitments made by belarus. we have equally called for the introduction without delay of a moratorium on the death penalty and the need to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. as we further pursue our policy of critical engagement, we will continue to follow closely developments in belarus with regard to fundamental freedoms. the eu stands ready to assist belarus in meeting its obligation in the area of democratisation and full respect for human rights. in addition, the eu will continue to provide financial support for civil society through the relevant eu programmes and initiatives. steps taken by belarus to respect fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and human rights will remain key for the shaping of eu policy towards belarus. let me also add one sentence. we are discussing today the human rights issues, but of course nuclear safety issues are also an overall eu concern. the eu is putting pressure for full transparency on the construction process of the new nuclear power plant in ostrovets and we are also financing experts who are assisting in the new belarusian national regulation on this.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the united arab emirates, in particular the situation of human rights defender ahmed mansoor (2018/2862 ((rsp)).
i'm sorry, there is a mistake. i remind you that we are discussing the united arab emirates, in particular the situation of human rights defender ahmed mansoor. something else is showing up on the screens, but it's a mistake.
member of the commission. – mr president, the united arab emirates (uae) was the first gulf country with which the eu started a comprehensive dialogue on human rights, with the most recent eighth meeting taking place at beginning of july in abu dhabi. since the first meeting in 2013, we have addressed several areas of concern and have seen improvements, for example, with regard to gender issues and religious tolerance. nevertheless, of course, concerns remain in a number of areas: freedom of expression and association, the right to a fair trial, and the situation of human rights defenders, including individual cases, are among the points we have raised consistently during our dialogue. we continue to advocate a cooperative and transparent engagement in which the eu can support the uae in its endeavours to fulfil its international human rights commitments. as a first concrete step, we have been insisting on the need for enhanced information exchange. despite challenges, there is no alternative to continued engagement in this domain. in the eu, through our delegation in abu dhabi, we actively follow the overall human rights situation in the country, including individual cases. the case of ahmed mansoor is one case we have been actively following. mr mansoor, who was awarded the martin ennals award for human rights defenders in 2015, was sentenced in may this year to ten years’ imprisonment on charges related to the publication of false information and the spreading of hatred and sectarianism. we are regularly seeking clarification from the emirati authorities on his situation, his whereabouts and his health, as well as details on the judicial process and the appeal procedure. in doing so, we have constantly reiterated the eu’s principled position on human rights defenders and on freedom of expressions, in line with existing eu guidelines. let me also assure you that we will remain actively engaged in this individual case. we will also continue to raise the general human rights situation with the emirati institutions. we are of course aware of countries’ concerns over their stability and security, but we are quite convinced that one cannot have long-term stability without respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on seven draft resolutions on the mass arbitrary detention of uyghurs and kazakhs in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (2018/2863 ((rsp)).
i'm very sorry, because i saw that mr. polčák applied for a blue card, but that was for the previous speaker, as i understand it, so we won't go back to that. i'm sorry, i didn't see that.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of the uyghur and kazakh minorities in china's northwestern xinjiang province is rightly described by scholars as a cultural genocide. as part of these efforts, uighur adults are placed in re-education camps, and uighur children are separated from their families and placed in orphanages. the goal is one to destroy their national identity. the scale of the problem is illustrated by the level of investment: in 2017 alone, the chinese government allocated $30 million to build 45 new orphanages for 5,000 children. the scale of the use of technology to control the lives of ethnic minorities is also alarming, as the latest human rights watch report points out. i therefore believe that the chinese government should be strongly urged to immediately close the camps, release those wrongfully detained and stop violating the rights of ethnic minorities. it is also important to ensure free access for journalists and international observers to monitor the situation in the province.
member of the commission. – mr president, the eu is closely following the situation in xinjiang. we are deeply concerned about credible reports pointing to a serious deterioration of the human rights situation there. in addition, the recent concluding observation of the eu committee on the elimination of racial discrimination merits close attention. this expresses alarm about reports of mass detention, political re—education camps affecting uyghurs and other minorities, mass surveillance, travel restrictions, and uyghurs abroad being returned to china involuntarily. these findings present serious grounds for concern. the eu calls on china to engage constructively with the committee recommendations. we have received accounts from eu citizens of uyghur origin in the eu, who report being pressurised to return to china or to provide information about their relatives there. travel documents of family members in china have reportedly been confiscated or not issued to prevent people from leaving. there are legitimate concerns about the security of uyghurs and other people belonging to minorities if returned to china. the eu urges all countries to consider carefully requests for international protection from such people and, where applicable, to ensure respect of the non—refoulement principle. the eu repeatedly raised this concern with the authorities during the last eu—china human rights dialogue in july 2018. the situation in xinjiang, freedom of religion and belief, and the rights of persons belonging to minorities, especially tibetans and uyghurs, were addressed. the eu reiterated its request for a fact—finding visit to xinjiang, including access to the camps and the need to implement recommendations from international human rights bodies. the eu supports the request made by the un high commissioner for human rights for her office to have access to all regions of the country. respect for fundamental human rights requires that all human rights, including freedom of expression, freedom of religion or belief, freedom of movement, assembly and association, the right to due process and the right to non—discrimination, are respected in xinjiang, as they should be anywhere in the country, in line with china’s international obligations and national legislation. the upcoming universal periodic review provides an opportunity for open dialogue between china and its international partners on the full range of human rights issues.
i'd like to apologize to you, commissioner, for the behavior of my colleagues. well, sometimes it's easier to make a big statement than to follow the basic rules of politeness. i'm closing the debate. we're going to vote. (the sitting was suspended pending the vote)
madam president! i wanted to invoke rule 162 of the rules of procedure. during the debate on neo-fascist violence, president paşcu took my voice after half a minute, half of my speaking time, and did not give it back to me because i criticized his party colleague. if the president of paşcu cannot maintain neutrality, he should not preside.
madam president! today we voted on the document on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a framework for the free movement of non-personal data in the european union. this is certainly an important issue in view of the increasingly rapid digitisation of the economy. the agreed text introduces a principle that allows non-personal data to be stored and processed anywhere in the european union without undue restrictions. the exception to this rule, which i believe is the key issue, is public security, which is also included in the document, and i therefore supported the final text, as did other members of my group.
madam president! there are many christians in this war-torn country. in the 2018 world persecution index published by open doors, yemen ranked ninth. the joint draft resolution already states in paragraph 1 that the european parliament 'condemns in the strongest possible terms the violence and all attacks on civilians and infrastructure' in yemen. unfortunately, the document does not mention the persecution of christians. i share the view that the european parliament should as stated in our resolution call on all parties to the conflict in yemen to comply with their obligations under international law and with regard to access to humanitarian aid and the protection of civilians.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. it is perhaps easier to write a directive than to enforce the rules, although the biggest problem seems to be the automated factory-like poultry farms, huge, with several thousand poultry farms, where it is difficult not only to maintain the welfare of the birds but, above all, to provide healthy meat for the chickens raised. first, poultry was reduced to small flocks similar to natural flocks, then litter was eliminated and replaced by cages from one to eight stories high to achieve high production without taking into account the natural needs of the birds. at present, european law allows a density limit of 33 kg/m2, sometimes even more, which means that one chicken has an area smaller than an a4 sheet. so it's not just about reducing the density of the population, getting natural light, getting better air quality, or reducing ammonia emissions. all of this should reduce the need for antimicrobials. but the most important would be to reduce the negative impact of poultry meat consumption on public health by reducing the bioaccumulation of substances such as herbicides, pesticides and, of course, antibiotics. it's also about minimizing the stench and noise from the farms. no data are available on the origin and the standard of the feed. is it genetically modified or pesticide-laden? the big risk, as we've already talked about here, is of course the bioaccumulation of antibiotics in chickens and their possible release into water and sewage. there are also no regulations on noise and stench, which exposes local residents to inhaling odors with a risk of respiratory diseases. there's also no regulation on the discharge of faeces into groundwater, which results in increased levels of nitrates, nitrites, which are carcinogenic to the digestive tract.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i'm the representative of the region that's hosting the climate conference in katowice this year. i am proud to be from poland, a country that has made some of the biggest reductions in its emissions in decades and which will be hosting the climate conference for the third time. i hope that when you come to katowice, you will be able to appreciate the efforts of poland, and in particular the silesian region, which has made very good progress in reducing the emissions of its economy. but i also hope, commissioner, that you will take the trouble to understand the scale of the challenges facing mining regions in the face of the european union's climate policy. the main focus of this year's climate conference will be to develop mechanisms to implement the paris agreement. poland strongly supports this agreement and the amendment which i am going to table on behalf of the cor is in the spirit of this agreement. it states that our aim is to achieve a balance between emissions and removal capacity, as defined in the paris agreement. it also removes the envi target, which the commission proposed, by saying that the level of emission reductions should be increased to 55% immediately. we cannot agree with that goal. and as far as biodiversity is concerned, poland is the best example of biodiversity that is well-managed and well-managed.
first of all, i wanted to point out that if the united states is pulling out of the agreement with the 40% emissions reduction plans, what do you think will happen - i'm talking to those who are proposing the increased amendments - when we propose 50%, 55% or 45%? whether the next countries will be more willing to join the agreement or more likely to withdraw from it. so let's not overdo it. second, consider how much carbon a society has emitted over its history, because when england was smoking through the chimneys of the industrial revolution, other places were still riding on donkeys in the fields, so it's not unfair that now all three quarters of us are reducing those emissions at the same rate. third, this reduction can only be achieved by fairly charging all the costs of emissions, not by pointing out any technologies, much less calculating degrees, if the climate is to cool, because nobody really knows. it's just a guess. no one has ever cooled a planet. you don't know exactly where it's going to end. counting that to the second decimal place is really funny.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to invite you all to katowice, the capital of silesia, from which region i am elected to the european parliament and therefore feel like a co-host. and there's the clean coal technology centre, which is actually the only one in europe where there are really technologies that are particularly important for climate protection. i am also the author of the itre opinion. it welcomes the fact that the envi committee has taken account of the demands made in particular with regard to the protection of hundreds of thousands of jobs in the eu's energy-intensive industry. it also took into account the positive impact of digitalisation and space programmes, and above all of innovation in the energy sector itself. i also wanted to emphasize that our biggest, most important goal in katowice is the katowice package, to really engage the rest of the world in achieving climate goals. and it is not necessarily in this international meeting that we are to set out our new objectives as the european union. it's counterproductive. but i wanted to point out on the other hand that we have in our european union, in 12 countries, 41 mining regions. and it's worth doing what the itre committee did. she voted that we need a special program for these regions, 5 billion euros to protect citizens, to show these tens of millions of people that there is a program for your regions.
i'm a big believer in setting the bar high, but in sports. i would prefer that the bar be set wisely, precisely and with due regard for the starting point of individual economic operators or simply states. i'm a big proponent of reducing these negative impacts of industrial activity, economic activity on the climate. i think that the experience of this perspective until 2020 is unfortunately negative, and i think that the tasks should be made much more flexible and adapted to specific objectives and, above all, to specific possibilities, so that we do not end up in a situation where everyone is convinced that these tasks are primarily designed to punish someone.
on behalf of the enf group. - madam president! - i have to go. the idea of the union was once to increase economic freedom and reduce taxes and burdens on citizens. today, the main objective of this parliament is to increase the budget of the union and to force member countries to increase taxes and charges. the closer we get to the election, the more you guys show off spending other people's money. taking money from hardworking people to fight unemployment, to support selected entrepreneurs, or to pay scholarships to selected students. you're actually creating unemployment, destroying the economy and all human activity. you can't outrun north korea. they're already spending 100% of their income on that. at most, it will catch up with the communist countries. you'll achieve their standard of economic growth and unemployment. eventually, europe will experience the happiness of emigration to china or singapore. i don't wish you luck.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that the committee on budgets voted by a large majority over 1900 amendments to the council's position, which not only resulted in the council withdrawing all its cuts but also increased the appropriations for commitments by over eur 720 million. the most significant increases are in the €350 million allocated to the youth employment initiative and the nearly €130 million allocated to the security and citizenship strand. however, it appears that an increase in the level of payments of only 3,2% compared to 2018 may not be sufficient, as 2019 is the penultimate year of the current financial perspective and thus will accumulate payments, backlogs already known to the commission from previous years. however, a budget in this form should allow the problems of the internal and external dimension of migration to be addressed, the protection of the union's external borders to be strengthened, economic growth to be stimulated, employment to be promoted and new jobs to be created, especially for young people, and the de facto cohesion of the union and of union agriculture to be strengthened.
in writing. the problem of single-use plastic packaging polluting the environment, especially the marine environment, is a major environmental challenge. but i think it should be tackled systematically, not by prohibition. and most importantly, by using common sense. the draft i have tabled contains, in my view, shortcomings and harmful provisions, often inaccurate and disproportionate to the situation, which is the reason for the eight amendments i have tabled. it completely omits the issue of food hygiene, which is a big improvement over the past in the use of sup (single use plastics). it is also incomprehensible that different rules apply to sup and to plastic bottles, foil and plastic packaging, which are the main sources of long-term environmental pollution. the commission and some meps have claimed that the proposed project would be employment neutral in the eu and would only cover products from china. in the eu, there is a large and highly employed industry that produces not only plastics but also environmentally friendly disposable paper, cardboard and advanced products made from plastics, aluminium and waxed paper. this industry cannot be destroyed. the shortfall project addressed the issue of effective recycling, which would create new jobs rather than reduce them. the proposed directive should provide incentives for multinational groups responsible for the choice of materials used in their products to encourage the use of environmentally friendly substitutes.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! looking at the latest data on european economic growth, one can be optimistic. they clearly indicate that we have gained the wind in our sails. the improvement is evident in areas such as public finance, employment and investment. the unemployment rate in the euro area stood at 8.6% at the beginning of 2018, the lowest since the economic crisis. the overall employment rate in the euro area, which stood at 71% last year, is also encouraging, showing that we are moving closer to the 75% employment target set by the europe 2020 strategy. despite these positive signs, we must remember that there are still many areas which require our urgent and prompt intervention. the unemployment rate among young people in the euro area remains unacceptably high at close to 17%. the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion is also very high, at just over 23% in the euro area, or almost 120 million people, which means that it is still higher than in 2009. segmentation and inequality in the labour market also persist. the above data mean one thing: our efforts to counter these negative phenomena must be intensified. our aim should be an integrated labour market that provides high-quality employment for all, including disadvantaged groups. reforms in the member states should therefore promote responsible employment contracts and adequate social protection, including for workers with non-standard and new types of contracts. the dynamic nature of employment and the digital transformation require us to adapt accordingly. the changing demands of the labour market also need to be met by workers who should be equipped with the appropriate skills. this is why we need to better link our education systems to the labour market and promote lifelong learning. we also need to facilitate occupational mobility and entry and re-entry into the labour market. we also need better work-life balance policies so that workers can adapt to employers' expectations without sacrificing their personal lives. this requires flexible work arrangements, favourable parental leave for both parents and investment in affordable and quality childcare. it is also necessary to step up efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion and unfair working conditions, which distort the market and lead to poverty among working people as well. i believe that this year's commission country recommendations are moving in that direction, but i am concerned about their inconsistent implementation. since the european semester was launched, only 9% of all recommendations have been fully implemented, while as many as 30% have been implemented very little or not at all. however, i am convinced that better implementation of the recommendations to member states would translate in a real way into more growth and more employment.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to draw your attention to the activities of an institute called transport and environment, which is financed by european taxpayers' money, european commission money, among other things. this institute produces such nonsensical reports, in which it deplores, for example, how poles import diesel cars from western europe, seeing some damage to the environment. i don't know what you mean. if these cars exist and are driving in germany, what is the environmental damage of driving in poland now? the report also laments the fact that poorer eastern europeans are buying used cars in general. if they buy used cars, it's better, because they've used some of the environmental resources to make these cars, and instead of wasting them, they'll be serving the poor. and to take offense at the poor for being poor is really idiotic. we also play for the money of the european taxpayer, producing such nonsensical reports.
the next item is the commission statement on the use of facebook user data by cambridge analytica and data protection (2018/2855 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the facebook cambridge analytica case was, in many ways, a wake—up call for all of us. we were reminded once again that in the digital world our personal data can be misused, abused and used against us. we were reminded again that cybersecurity and disinformation are a serious threat for free and democratic elections and that the digital arms race is not a thing of the future. it is happening right here and right now. it was a clear warning sign that the election periods are particularly prone to disinformation and manipulation by private and foreign interests and that the european elections are not immune to this threat. we must strengthen our joint response to dangers to our democracy. the facebook cambridge analytica scandal was not an isolated case as, since then, we have learned of new data breaches. every such new case confirms the importance and the urgency of acting. every such case confirms that the new eu data protection rules are not a privilege. they are a necessity, as you point out in the draft resolution. the commission shares many of your concerns concerning data protection and misuse of the research argument, and calls for algorithmic accountability. we also support wholeheartedly the call for the prompt adoption of the european political parties regulation by the co—legislators. we also take note of some new ideas for future regulatory action and electoral safeguards. the commission has already been working to ensure fair and resilient elections or to deal with disinformation, which covers some of parliament’s ideas. while we should not shy away from reinforcing our regulations where necessary, europe is better equipped now than ever before with the powerful tools provided by the new data protection law, which were not in place at the time of the cambridge analytica breaches. it is important to enforce the existing rules at their full capacity. i am in regular contact with the chair of the european data protection board and the chair of the uk data protection authority, who is leading the investigation into facebook and cambridge analytica. we fully support the coordinated response of the eu data protection authorities. i have also raised the us investigation into the matter with the chair of the us federal trade commission (ftc), mr simons, who was in brussels last week for the second annual review of the privacy shield. he reassured me that this investigation is a key priority for the ftc and that it is ongoing. we have to wait for the final outcome of the investigation, but we will watch this very closely and stay in contact with the ftc. but we also need to look beyond the case itself because it sent shock waves through the core of our democratic system. our current election rules, practices and habits stem from our non—digital past. campaign spending limits, strict rules on political advertising, including transparency on who is campaigning and who paid for it, the silence period, the role of the media in disinformation – all the offline rules – must be enforced online in the digital world. one thing is clear: the upcoming elections will not be business as usual and we cannot treat them as if they were. we cannot be naive and we have very little time to act. the commission therefore encourages member states to establish and support a national elections network. the idea is that such a network would be able to quickly detect potential threats and swiftly enforce existing rules, including available financial sanctions. we have also stepped up our game against cyber—threats and to address disinformation. my colleague, commissioner king, will tell you more about this in the concluding remarks, but i just want to stress that the commission is not looking idly at those new developments. we have brought in a package of measures to strengthen resilience against classical cybersecurity threats, like hacking in 2017. on disinformation, the commission proposed a package of measures in the communication on tackling online disinformation, based around transparency, traceability and accountability. we asked major it platforms to commit to an eu-wide code of practice on disinformation, which was presented last month. but we also have to recognise the fact that many companies, including facebook, are trying to fix the mistakes they made and support us in the effort to make elections fairer and more transparent. it goes without saying that the pressure you in this chamber put on them brings positive results. i am counting on cross-party support for this package because it is ideologically neutral. the truth is that this is not, as such, about politicians. this is about the right of european people to make their choice as freely as possible, free from illegal manipulation, free from disinformation and free from foreign interference. parliament’s support for this package is crucial and your resolution is a great opportunity to send a clear message to the eu governments, but also to other relevant stakeholders. the european elections take place very soon. if we want to be prepared, we have to act now and we have to act fast. i am encouraged by last week’s european council, which welcomed the commission proposals, in the communication called ‘securing free and fair european elections’, on election cooperation networks, online transparency, protection against cybersecurity incidents, unlawful data manipulation, fighting disinformation campaigns and tightening the rules on european political party funding. it also called for a rapid examination and operational follow-up by the competent authorities. i therefore hope that together we can advance rapidly and shield ourselves better against manipulation, disinformation and abuse, also in light of the upcoming elections.
thank you very much, mr. president bullmann. yes, we will respond accordingly.
in the world of digital revolution, trust is one of the most important values. it builds healthy relationships between users, content creators and broadcasters, and communication organisers. facebook is not only a key company, it's also a communications organizer. that's why the issue of facebook's credibility is so important and symbolic. it is imperative that we fully explain all the causes and aspects of the facebook-cambridge analytica relationship and the scandalous leak of personal data. there are legal tools in the form of the privacy shield regulation that went into effect on may 25 of this year, there's the european-american privacy shield that ensures that privacy is respected, and cambridge analytica was certified. what is legally required must be respected without any discounted tariff. but it's been a while since that incident. there are new challenges: political advertising and the lack of clarity about its funding - important during elections, the automation of algorithms that threatens to disrupt the transparency of communications, the development of disinformation in all forms, up to deepfake. the dark side of the internet is stronger than the good side, which is why we need new strategies. we are working on them in the european union and i thank the commissioner and the commissioner for this initiative. and what's more, facebook is working on them, too -- whether it's developing a flag for banned, hateful, or questionable content, whether it's eliminating bots and anonymous accounts that are used to fight online, or whether it's teaching a new approach to privacy where our real choice and consent is the key to conscious behavior online. by labeling bad practices as bad today, let's also show good examples, and this and working together will be more useful for a healthy future of the internet.
ms scott cato, right now mr romeo franz is listed to speak, and according to the rules you may only be granted the floor during catch-the-eye procedure. there is no direct replacement, just catch-the-eye. interjection from ms scott cato: ‘i am on the screen now though, mr president, i would just point out respectfully.’ let us agree: ok, catch-the-eye, and you have one minute. according to the rules, if i have a list of speakers – excuse me but i do believe that the person chairing the sitting is myself, not somebody behind, so a one-minute speech. it is a list. i asked mr romeo franz to take the floor. we received information that ms scott cato would like to replace mr franz, which is not possible. my proposal was that she be granted one minute in catch-the-eye, ms scott cato accepted, so let us continue according to the list of speakers which has been prepared.
ladies and gentlemen, there are still more blue card applications, but let's stick to the rule: one speaker, one blue card. the point is, we have to be done by 10:30.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about two related but different problems here -- the use of personal data for commercial purposes and the use of personal data for political purposes. while the first has been known for at least a few years, the gravity of the second problem is only now being recognized. the resolution rightly demands that online platforms distinguish between the political uses of their online advertising products and their commercial uses and that the processing of personal data for political advertising purposes have a different legal basis than that applicable to commercial advertising. it is only that - as far as i know - such a suitable legal basis has not yet been established and the great task for the future is to develop it. the draft resolution also states that member states should urgently investigate alleged abuse of political space on the internet by foreign powers. but abuse of the online political space also happens within the union, between different member states. and that also requires analysis.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate on what is a key resolution. as my colleague, commissioner jourová, underlined, the cambridge analytica case has thrust into the spotlight an array of threats to our elections: hacks, leaks, fake news, as well as the misuse of personal data, classical cyber—attacks that target our voting systems and cyber—enabled manipulation of voting behaviour. to tackle the classic cybersecurity threats, the commission brought forward a package of measures in september last year to build greater cyber-resilience, to protect systems and data and to strengthen deterrence against those who would seek to attack us. to tackle the challenge of cyber-manipulation, in april this year, the commission proposed a package of measures in our communication on tackling online disinformation, based around transparency, traceability and accountability. this set out our clear definition of disinformation. it sent a clear and strong message to all of the internet platforms – facebook, twitter, youtube and others – who we strongly believe have a real responsibility to take action. we asked them to commit to an eu-wide code of practice on disinformation, presented in fact last month. we set out clear objectives for this code and called for measurable results in a number of areas, not asking the platforms, or indeed public authorities, to judge whether something is true or false, right or wrong, but to shine a light on the provenance of the information that we are seeing. i am encouraged that your resolution, as claude moraes underlined, identifies the need for urgent action in a number of these areas. we ask the platforms to restrict targeting options for political advertising, to ensure greater transparency around sponsored content, to step up their efforts to identify and delete fake accounts, and to establish clear rules around bots. there should also be greater clarity around algorithms and information on how they prioritise the content that is on display. this should be combined with tools enabling users more easily to discover content and access new sources representing alternative points of view, as well as to be able to report disinformation. we want to see the code implemented effectively. we’ve said we’ll analyse first results by the end of this year. we hope we can see sufficient progress by working on a voluntary basis, but we’ve been clear: we reserve the right to consider our options again if we do not make the progress that we need to see. as mentioned by commissioner jourová earlier, last month president juncker presented a set of measures specifically on election security, asking member states to set up a national election cooperation network of all of the relevant authorities and to appoint a contact point to participate in a european-level election cooperation network. as part of this, the commission will work closely with, and support, data protection authorities to make sure that all data breaches are effectively investigated. last week, we convened a high-level meeting which brought together, for the first time, public and private actors from the member states in order to take stock of progress and to identify and share best practices for countering the threats to our democratic processes and our democratic values. this event highlighted again the key importance of engagement, both by the public authorities, but also by the key private-sector actors. with the european elections and numerous national elections on the horizon, it is imperative that we see sufficient commitment from the big online platforms. the commission very much welcomes your strong engagement on this urgent range of issues. awareness is the first line of defence, but, as you set out in your resolution, we need to go further. we have a strong shared interest in protecting our democratic institutions, our democratic processes and our elections. the commission is committed to working with you, with member states and with the private sector to secure the foundations of our democracy.
you'll allow such a minor personal observation. it is a good thing that i have been given the chair on this particular point of our debate, because i am responsible for security in the european parliament, including the one we have discussed here. i have received one draft resolution closing the debate. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to express my great appreciation for romania as a country which is of crucial importance for our security in a region as sensitive as the black sea basin. we work with many colleagues, here in this chamber and in committees, who make a very real contribution to our common position and to our concern to strengthen each other's independence. you said a very valuable word about not duplicating the security structures of europe. three quarters of our countries are allies in the atlantic alliance and the common security policy should be based primarily on solidarity within nato, on presenting a common position. it's a pity that mr. verhofstadt left again. he said here that we must abandon the european treaties, abolish the principle of unanimity. if he loves the majority so much, then let his country join the diplomatic response to the skripal case. because romania has shown solidarity; mr verhofstadt's homeland, unfortunately, has not.
the romanian president said today that the european union needs a vision to consolidate what he called a true union that looks to the future. the question is, what is the real union? many european leaders have drawn up different visions from the president's, and the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, has presented several of his scenarios to you, encouraging them to be discussed in the member states and in different circles. i want to say that such civil discussions, initiatives are already being created in poland and lithuania. the europa christi movement has been active for two years and has clearly stated its expectations for the future functioning of the european union - the true union that the president spoke of. first, a return to the fundamental values of christianity, to which reference should be made in the basic documents of the union. the protection of human life from conception to natural death must be a sine qua non, and the protection of the traditional family model must be guaranteed in eu documents. i'd appreciate it if you'd consider it.
madam president! this report is a load of nonsense, lectures and some socialist whining, meddling in other people's business. the list of institutions that have been set up and that are mentioned is impressive: the europe 2020 strategy, the european social fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, creative europe, etc. mother of god! what we have here is full-blown communism on the march. we try to manage every aspect of life through a hundred thousand different agencies that no one controls anymore and no one knows what they're doing anymore. it's a completely unnecessary report written in gibberish. no one will read it. nobody cares, and there's no reason for us to care.
madam president! fellow workers! president timmermans spoke of meeting the pragmatic expectations of the citizens. that was a good formula. the question is how do we understand the pragmatic expectations of the citizens? i think they're at least three areas: security concerns, and security concerns in a full, holistic sense, not just the fight against terrorism, the security of the southern flank of the european union, but also security in the east and vulnerability to putin hegemony; second, setting an example of austerity legislation, which is not always good, setting an example of transparency in the european commission's work; and third, rejecting the socialist prescriptions. the european union needs an injection of economic freedom, competitiveness, the fight against protectionism, equal rules that will give economic strength to europe as a whole. i think that is what the citizens expect, certainly a lot of the citizens in central europe.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european commission's work programme for the coming year, which will be a year of decisions, change and challenges for all of us in the union in the fields of development cooperation and humanitarian aid. from the perspective of the committee on development (deve), which i represent, but also from the perspective of other committees in parliament, the key, the main topic is of course the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the related negotiations and discussions around the commission's proposal to create a new neighbourhood instrument and international and development cooperation. the president's message included proposals for a more effective governance model and for increased cooperation between multilateral and national development actors. i personally believe that this is a good direction, which will create jobs and take advantage of investment opportunities in partnership with africa and the countries neighbouring the union. i believe that we must - as the union and the member states - avoid duplication of effort and rather strengthen their effectiveness and complementarity. i would also like to mention the 2030 agenda and the un sustainable development goals, which are also included in the european consensus on development. i hope that the european commission's analysis, which will be published later this year, will provide a comprehensive strategy for implementing the sdgs in 2019 and that these objectives will also be reflected in the future development aid financing architecture.
if everything is a priority, then nothing is a priority. i feel a little sorry for the commissioner, because i have heard almost 30 speeches and only a dozen or so of them were on these priorities. the rest is more a criticism of the eu institutions or a wish for specific priorities in the long term. i'll tell you what's most important to me. first, to complete all those issues which take a long time, namely budgetary and financial issues, including the aforementioned example of the promised erasmus+ programme. the second issue is, of course, security in the broad sense, that is, everything that we started this parliamentary term with and we end up with completely different conditions. and third, brexit. solving the problems of the uk deal, of the uk leaving, will be crucial to the whole future of working with not just the uk, but other countries as well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, mr. first vice president, i would like to thank you for your service to the united nations. the european commission has a few months left in its term of office and you have heard how much is expected of it. all the more reason to close the unnecessary ones. i am thinking in particular of the case brought by the european commission against poland. as you saw, at the last meeting of the general affairs council, many countries spoke, but this is not the majority needed to state that there is a risk that democracy is not functioning in poland. and we had a local election recently. you could have seen them yourself. it's time to close this case. if you believe in the rule of law, please stay within your jurisdiction. this is clear from the principle of separation of powers. if you believe in democracy, you must clearly conclude that there is no majority - i repeat again - the majority required, because not every majority is the majority required by law to continue this procedure. and please take up the matters that the house has asked for today.
mr president, so here we are again with another tax scandal on the agenda. after panama, bahama, paradise football leagues and other revelations, we have a cum-ex scam that cost eu member states almost eur 50 billion. a network of equity traders, tax advisers, bankers, lawyers and investors has conspired to remove – or should i say steal – this amount of money from member statesʼ tax coffers. the cum-ex scheme had only one purpose: to grab tax reimbursement from the state – but for tax that had never been paid. the modalities are now very well known. we are all shocked by the amount of this monumental theft. mr president, we should be grateful to the group of journalists from panorama and die zeit for uncovering this malpractice. but should i ask: what about the law enforcement institutions? where have they been when these criminal activities were taking place, and why was this kind of swindle at all possible in the eu in the first place? i am calling on this parliament and on the commission to take immediate steps in order to eliminate these malpractices.
i'm a member of the terrorism committee, and i have to say that financial matters are the most time-consuming of our work. issues related primarily to the financing of various types of illegal activities that threaten the security of european citizens. there are elements in between. there are elements of these large denominations of euro 500 euro banknotes popularly called bin ladens, but also tax fraud, the ones we're talking about on this occasion. i think that the european institutions are not sufficiently sensitive to this issue. that whether we are talking about this kind of affair or about vac or whether we are talking about special taxes or the withdrawal of funds from countries where certain goods are produced, for example to cyprus or to tax havens, we are all the time ineffective and - i stress - late to various criminal groups. that absolutely has to change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. a moment ago, president timmermans gave such an elegant speech about his final plans. and i'm having another déjà vu listening to our debate today. i remember the beginning of our term of office, the luxembourg affair, and then we also talked about how the state takes money from the budget of the states. and let's really all ask ourselves if our tolerance back then is the reason we have to talk about this today. this is not a new topic. well, first of all, because cumex has been written about for many, many months, and even longer. second, this is not just a matter of people being harmed, of the limited budgetary functions of the state, but it is a matter of the functioning of democracy itself. because the lobby control institute, a prestigious german institute, wrote about what the german state's neglect of fighting these things looked like. so really, if we're looking for the places where democracy is broken, it's best to start at the top.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your exchanges this afternoon show that we all three share the same sentiments. first, there is legitimate indignation at these new revelations. these are practices - many have said - that are intolerable and must be stopped. and then, a sincere and profound appreciation to the journalists. it is further proof that the investigative press is an essential pillar of a real and living democracy and it is a reminder that no one should attack, in any way, the freedom of the press. finally, our common determination to act is also a way of paying tribute to the work of these journalists. in this connection, let me correct what may appear to be a false impression: no, the repetition of scandals is not a sign of our impotence. there is always a time lag between what is revealed and the state of the law. the joint action we have been taking continuously in recent years is not in vain, but it is the perpetual race. it's an old story between the policeman and the thief. our fight against tax evasion will never be finished because, as i said, the imagination of tax evaders is limitless and the possibilities offered by technology must also be explored. these revelations show that fraudsters have been able to take full advantage of the laws which differ between the states, the lack of information between them and the specific provisions of bilateral conventions. from that point on, the lessons we, as public policy makers, have to learn are that we simply have to stop with purely national, piecemeal approaches, because they don't work. we are dealing with international, european mechanisms and the response must obviously be international and european. i would like to make it clear that we now have rules and tools in place to enable states to alert their counterparts in the event of fraud, and it is not a question of means, it is a question of will and attitude. member states must understand that tax administration is an area which is becoming increasingly european. i will ensure that this message is conveyed to the heads of tax administrations at their next meeting in brussels. i have often had the opportunity to say in this chamber that, to be effective, fiscal sovereignty must be exercised jointly at european level, otherwise we are helpless in the face of these phenomena, many of which are crossborder. i know that this paradigm shift is difficult for everyone, starting with the member states, especially in the area of taxation, because they consider it - we know it - to be one of the essential attributes of their monarchical power. but this is not a question of renouncing sovereignty, it is a question of exercising it jointly at european level in order to work in the general interest of the european union. it is a question of deciding on a collective approach which is the only one capable of offering a response that is equal to the ingenuity, again very high, of the fraudsters. with a coordinated tax policy, we can close the loopholes in our tax laws and, therefore, close the opportunities for fraud. this is the idea i will be bringing forward when i put forward proposals early next year for the move to qualified majority voting in tax matters. it is high time that we started the debate with the member states. i have been asked several times about the possibility of extending the automatic exchange of information to dividends. i think that's a perspective worth exploring. but let us admit that at this stage of your mandate in the european parliament and our mandate in the commission, this is something that will have to be explored further over time. but i want to say that we have already extended this exchange of information, that many member states do not use the information they receive from other states and that it is important, even fundamental, to put in place what has already been adopted. i do not deny the commission's responsibilities, and the work of parliament, the work of the journalists, the change of mind on the international scene have all given us tremendous opportunities to move forward. but i say to mr giegold in particular that i am still calling on the member states. their responsibility in implementing what we have decided, including in completing what is already proposed such as the accis project (common consolidated corporate tax base) or digital taxation is absolutely major. qualified majority or not, they have a responsibility. it is up to us, the institutions that represent the general interest, to remind them of this, and i am doing so in the council. i hope that under the austrian presidency, which is very active on these issues, in particular on the accis and on digital taxation, we will have final results during this semester, because then it will be too late. i therefore encourage the austrian presidency to continue its efforts so that we can achieve the progress that has been so long awaited by you, ladies and gentlemen, but in reality, above all by the citizens of europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i have listened carefully to your comments and to the concerns raised. and yes, you are completely right. we are aware of the seriousness of the affair, its possible repercussions and the financial impacts for the institutions involved. i can only second what the commissioner said and confirm that the presidency stands ready to look further into the issue. and thank you, commissioner, for the encouragement. we are really doing a lot and trying our utmost to reach good results under our presidency on all points, not least in the matter that you have mentioned.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at one of the following monthly sessions. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the murder of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi in the saudi arabian consulate in istanbul (2018/2885 ((rsp)).
i'll explain that i'm giving a voice to those colleagues who haven't had a chance to speak yet.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank parliament for the quite strong and united voice that i’ve heard from different groups and different national backgrounds that send the same message. this very much supports and strengthens the work and the words that weʼve been doing and saying in recent weeks, namely that we want to know the truth, that we want justice, and that we will not settle for anything less. we will continue to demand a full, credible and transparent investigation. as this parliament was debating this murder, we released a common g7 statement going exactly in the same direction, which i think is a good message of unity and strength. we, as the european union – and myself personally – have been very explicit so far, and we will continue to do so. we are also united. as you know – and as some of you have said – individual member states have either taken steps or indicated that they would be willing to take steps. some have decided to withdraw their participation from events in saudi arabia and have announced other possible measures. collectively, i believe that, as the european union and in the council in particular (so here i would have to cross the chamber and sit on the other side), collectively we will have to monitor the situation as it continues to evolve in the coming days – hopefully not weeks – and decide on any measure to be taken collectively, as the european union, based on, first and foremost, the steps that are taken by the saudi authorities to establish the truth and to bring those responsible to justice. as i said, accountability, not revenge or any fig leaf that could hide real responsibilities. i can also point to the fact that those of you who have taken the floor come from different political groups and different countries. most of you come from parties that have a majority in the national governments. maybe there is something you can also do when it comes to your national governments’ positions. it’s true that there are different attitudes among member states at the moment on some of the measures. i notice that there are also different attitudes within government coalitions in single countries that are quite evident in this chamber. so we can all work on more unity, and i think we have the duty to do so in the coming days: to react properly, rationally, united and in coordination with our international partners. i also want to thank the parliament for a second reason, and i will finish with that. this debate was important, but the constant focus that you help us to put on freedom of speech and the support we give – not only to journalists around the world, but also to human rights activists, civil society organisations, and to political opposition in some cases – is vital. this will remain at the core of our foreign policy, with one key element that some of you mentioned today and that to me is really vital, namely that this is done, and will continue to be done, in the case of the european union, regardless of geopolitics. it’s not because we like one country more than another; it’s not because one country is more, or less, credible than another that we will stay more silent. we will continue to support civil society, human rights, journalists and activists everywhere in the world, and we will continue to denounce and to oppose all measures against a free, open society everywhere in the world. we will continue to engage in every situation where freedom and human rights are under attack, whoever the victim, wherever it takes place and whatever the country. (applause)
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, during the subcommittee on security and defence (sede) mission to, amongst other areas, the eastern part of ukraine, including mariupol and talakivka, we were able to see with our own eyes the gravity of the situation in the sea of azov region. the draft joint resolution that we are able to present to parliament describes precisely this situation. i would like to thank my colleagues for this. the aggressive posture of the russian federation in the azov sea area turns our attention to yet another pattern that this country uses to deny access to territories. i am well aware of this. it happens in the vistula lagoon in polish territorial waters. it has happened in many areas close to the baltic sea and i would also like to turn the attention of my colleagues to the denial, or partial denial, of access to seaports by nord stream 2. it is also an important factor added to this project.
madam president, here we are again, speaking about the threat posed by russia. the security of the azov sea is linked to the security of the black sea and eu security in general, not only ukraine. the further militarisation of the azov sea area, the construction of the kerch bridge without the consent of ukraine and the restrictions on maritime transport once more show that russia wants to undermine the sovereignty of ukraine and test how far it can go before the eu can react. as president putin does not seem to be really interested in dialogue, i urge the member states and the eu to act. first, we need to extend the sanctions to include the companies that use this infamous kerch bridge as well. such illegal actions cannot bring economic benefits to russia. secondly, the mariupol region still needs more assistance from the eu, especially now while it is under even more military and economic pressure from russia.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we stand by the people of venezuela in their dramatic situation with the spillover effect of this drama to the whole region. therefore, we have to increase pressure on the maduro regime to stop violations of human rights, including the rights and immunities of our colleagues, the parliamentarians. we have to increase pressure also to introduce reforms in the country and to keep cooperation with other organisations such as the oas and the un.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with those who propose a permanent mechanism to check democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, namely in criticising the eu institutions' practice in this area. the actions taken by the commission and the european parliament were selective, arbitrary and highly politicized. for example, even 'best friends' (in the idiom) of my country have admitted in the back of their minds that they could be concerned about another member state. and that's exactly what it is. and this is certainly not the case with malta, for example, which my colleague mentioned. well, take a country that's considered a model of liberal democracy. i mean germany. for decades, the judiciary in germany has been demanding reforms to fully implement the principles of democracy, the separation of powers and judicial independence in the german judiciary. the appeals for judicial reform were raised before the 2017 bundestag elections. for example, the neue richtervereinigung issued a so-called berlin appeal, which stated, quote: 'the federal republic of germany, as a member of the union, can reliably require third parties to comply with the rules of the subject if it organises itself in this way. we therefore call for a commitment to bring the german judiciary up to the principles of separation of powers, which have long been part of the european standard. the german authorities have not yet complied with these requirements and the deutscher richterverbund published its position on the matter on 11 september 2018 entitled 'the third power must govern itself', in which it states, inter alia, that the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office in the federal republic of germany are subordinate to the executive branch and that in many länder the minister of justice decides on the appointment and promotion of judges and prosecutors. the court of justice has the power to order the appointment of judges and the appointment of other judges. that's the judges' rule. as you know, public opinion in germany has recently been agitated by the appointment of judges to the brandenburg constitutional court, where, as usual, the seats are shared between the major political parties. this time the spd decided to appoint, among others, a politically engaged writer with no judicial experience, who was sensible enough to join the party a year ago. i could do a million of those. the same is true in many other lands where judges may be members of a political party. there's political influence in the selection of judges everywhere. i therefore ask, and i am addressing this to mr timmermans, why the european commission has not taken action to ensure that the federal republic of germany respects the values listed in article 2 of the treaty on european union. you can say, because germany is germany and poland is poland. but such thinking will sooner or later lead to the disaster of the union and perhaps of europe. but it can also lead to disaster if you believe that it is the european commission or the european parliament that decides the rule of law or constitutionality in a country. nothing would be more contrary to the principle of constitutionality and the rule of law, and the proposed mechanism for verifying democracy and the rule of law would be a contradiction to it.
the question asked by raising the blue card. in reference to your statement, where i gave examples from germany, i wanted to ask you if you are ready to apply what you said to your country and to your party?
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you if you are concerned about improving the schengen information system, why don't you ask the chairman of your group, mr verhofstadt, who invited ludmila kozlovska to this parliament, who was banned from entering the european union by polish special services, which was later confirmed by ukrainian services confirmed that she is a dangerous person. the chairman of your group is calling her some sort of alleged polish dissident and she is showing up in this parliament against the ban issued by the polish authorities. what do you think of that?
mr president, firstly i would like to thank carlos coelho and jeroen lenaers, the rapporteurs, for the great job and balanced solution. these three regulations establish not only significant improvements for the schengen information system but create the new order. they open up the possibility to exchange more information among member states’ agencies and to improve the security of our borders against terrorists by real time checks and the sharing of information. they support the effectiveness of the prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences. on the other hand, they also make it possible to speed up searches, with the help of an adequate alert system, for missing children. these improvements strengthen trust and boost cooperation between member states. also, thanks to common technical standards, rules and semantic interoperability, they guarantee the efficiency of using the digital tools to collect the data – not more but better data – for a legitimate purpose and in an adequate way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. you talked about efficiency, about a working system. i wanted to ask you, knowing the casus of ludmiła kozłowska expelled from poland, do you not think that there is a certain loophole that some safeguards against political exploitation should be added to the sis? should we not create the possibility for people on the schengen system, on this list of people who cannot enter the schengen countries, to appeal, to ask for an explanation? what does the mp think?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. the schengen information system should not be used under any political pressure or for political purposes. as i said at the end of my speech, there has to be a legitimate interest. when you use as in the case of the polish authorities the security of the country as an alleged reason for stopping the ability of ludmila kozlovska to move, then i think it is a violation of the schengen rules, and i agree that appeals exist maybe we should discuss them further. i just want to say to my colleague, who has already spoken about the case of ludmila kozlovska, that she was invited not only by mr verhofstadt, but also by the german national assembly, by many institutions. and besides, even at today's press conference, when asked about this case, the minister of foreign affairs of ukraine did not give an answer saying that she is any threat to ukraine and the ukrainian authorities never officially said this clearly, and we talked about the issues related to ludmila kozlovska in the official ukrainian delegation in kiev a month ago.
mr. chairman, please! i ask why this system exists, when every member of this parliament can challenge the decisions of the relevant authorities, the relevant services and invite excluded persons to show off with them in the spotlight. mr. pocket, you are a boni! is this your defense of the rule of law? and on what basis do you question the polish authorities' decision? if you know better than they do, we can save a lot of money. instead of all these border services, authorities and special services, let's hire mp boni, mp verhofstadt, mp rosa thun, let them sit at the table and decide for us, then we won't have to spend all these services these millions of euros. you're breaking up the system in the name of political struggle. you're saying this is a political decision? and what is the reason why mr. verhofstadt invited ludmila kozlovska here? for political gain. in the name of a political fight with the polish government, you're blowing up a system that's supposed to protect us from terrorists and dangerous people. ukrainian officials have issued - you missed it - a statement about kozlovska that they consider her a dangerous person who sought to change the borders of ukraine. he's most likely a person connected to russian intelligence. and that's how the russians once again got you here.
mr. chairman, please! thank you very much, that's good, because i'm going to take this opportunity to respond to the rumors that we just heard. it's really a loophole in the sis system, because it's really a high-profile case with a ukrainian citizen who lived in poland, is married to a pole and - for clarification - both are involved in the open dialog foundation, which is a stigmatizing human rights violation in eastern europe. the open dialogue foundation has also recently taken a closer look at the rule of law in poland. in return, ludmiła kozłowska was immediately expelled from poland and entered on the sis list of persons who are not allowed to enter schengen. and immediately there was information - the same information we're hearing here - that the ukrainian security services considered her a dangerous person. but the ukrainian security services immediately referred to the portal that is spreading it, denying that there is any such procedure in ms. kozlovska's case. these rumors are only being repeated by those who are getting their information from putin's fake news. i have a quick question for the commissioner. what do you say, commissioner? shouldn't we immediately put some kind of safety system in place for these people? where can they appeal at a rapid pace? this case is indeed very urgent.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we all know how important it is for the schengen area to function smoothly. it is one of the symbols of a united europe and a great success of integration our success. we cannot afford to lose this, and we must keep in mind the continuous improvement of this system while ensuring our safety. that is why i congratulate mr coelho and mr leanarz today on their reports, which are designed to introduce new systems and safeguards into the schengen information system that is already in place. the previous sis ii regulation only allowed national law enforcement authorities to enter alerts on refusal of entry and stay in the system. but it was not a duty, which was a loophole in the whole system that the coelho report eliminates. attention should also be paid to ensuring that facial images or dna profiles can be used to facilitate the identification of missing persons, in particular in cases where fingerprint data or photographs are not available or cannot be used for identification. not only does this increase the chances of a proper identification, it also increases our security. from my point of view, it is of the utmost importance that the new solutions improve schengen and increase the security of europeans, but do not force us to give up the values and freedoms that are the essence of the union, the essence of a secure europe, a europe without borders. that's what we've accomplished.
in writing. schengen is one of the most important arrangements within the european union, as it allows eu citizens to move freely across europe. but the schengen system must also promote the security of europeans. therefore, one of the most important issues is the effective return of non-eu citizens who are in europe illegally. unfortunately, this system is not fully effective. often, people who are in one eu country illegally are ordered to leave. however, because there is no smooth flow of information on these orders, most of them do not leave europe but simply move to another eu country. eurostat data confirm that only about 40% of irregular migrants requested to leave leave the eu actually do. this is why i wanted to strongly support the creation of an effective eu-wide system for the communication of information on return decisions. the idea is that decisions taken in one eu country should reach all eu countries as quickly as possible and be enforced by them. this would undoubtedly improve the eu's internal security and improve the attitude of europeans towards those migrants who are legally in the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i have a feeling of déjà vu, because we talk about it every year and it is something that unites all the political groups in our parliament, because we have the same problem: the council does not provide the necessary information, it does not answer written questions, in a word, the old polish proverb illustrates this: the grandfather spoke to the painting, and the painting never spoke to him. these answers to our questions, which we don't have answers to, are essential to the discharge procedure. we need answers on the main shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in luxembourg regarding high amounts of money transferred or unclear policies on construction. the council has still not prepared a response to the european ombudsman's strategic report on the transparency of the council's legislative process, despite the fact that the ombudsman asked for a response to her recommendations and proposals for improvements by 9 may 2018. this is also disrespectful to the european ombudsman. and finally, mr. chairman, the ombudsman's report was worked on by a large number of staff. if this has not led to a response from the council, such a pointless job is a waste of taxpayers' money.
(starting speech from the microphone) rule 11 (3) of the rules of procedure: the duty of mutual respect in the debate of the house. mr. speaker, i would ask that congressman bullmann apologize to all right-wing members for associating right-wing politics with any kind of extremism. from winston churchill to polish right-wing politicians who rotted in nazi and communist prisons, we make up such language! we hear all the time about the division, the segregation of europeans, the treatment of people with right-wing views as inferior, as people who can be attributed to extremism, radicalism. and i ask you, mr president, to respond to this demagogy every time. we poles have the worst idea of politische schweine and we're just saying it!
madam president! i found president donald tusk's speech to be realistic and pragmatic, and what i lacked was a detailed development of his message by president timmermans. we certainly need a rational and friendly atmosphere in the last weeks of the brexit negotiations, because - as mr henkel said - not only british interests are at stake, but european interests are also. we need to be more rigorous in our fight against human trafficking. and here i would expect action from the european commission, including action to fight for the security of our elections, which are threatened from outside (the european parliament elections). and finally, there was too much resentment at the expense of responsibility. mr bullmann attacked the austrian presidency, and mrs in 't veld attacked the council, accusing it of paralysis. these are bad examples of the reduction of trust in the european union. we need an example of trust in other institutions from the european parliament, because that gives us the opportunity to act rationally.
madam president! the first day of the last summit was for me yet another testimony to the problem that the british sovereign has cooked up for his own country, and subsequently for ireland and for the whole of the european union. the problem is on the united kingdom side, because the european union is united on this issue. on the other hand, on the second day, the written conclusions concerned matters on which there are differences of opinion between member states, i.e. immigration policy, internal security, relations with third countries. this is still a work in progress, and the voters in 2019 will tell us all whether these security efforts are appreciated, because this is the biggest deficit of the european union today. this is as important a challenge for the current heads of the council and the european commission as the great economic crisis was for herman van rompuy or barroso in the last round. i would like to return to my disappointment with the position of the united kingdom in the negotiations with the european union. i have personal reasons, because for my environment, which was part of the great solidarity movement - from this environment donald tusk also grew up - british parliamentarism was a certain role model, it was a model and inspiration worth following, because of its quality, because the truth triumphed over the falsehood, and political dispute was a way to educate people on the issues that were most important for the country. that is why i am so inspired and that is why i am so disappointed, but also, of course, i want this separation to be orderly, also in the interests of the hundreds of thousands of my countrymen who have found a better life in the british isles, and i would like them to have a chance in the future.
madam president, if the uk needs more time to reach agreement, it should be granted. in the spirit of the peaceful coexistence of countries, all of us should refrain from meddling in the political diversity of the uk, as well. i welcome the council tackling hybrids, cyber, disinformation and cbrn. i also welcome the notion of restrictive measures, although i point to the huge challenge in the attribution of attacks.
in writing. i would like to draw particular attention to three aspects discussed at the european council summit which seem crucial, especially from the point of view of our security. first, the reduction of illegal migration by 95% compared to october 2015 is a very good result, but we need a systemic and, above all, an effective way to prevent such situations in the future. the board is paying attention. it is particularly gratifying that our leaders are aware of the remaining shortcomings and weaknesses of the current regulations in this area and are calling for work to improve them. secondly, i welcome the strong emphasis on cybersecurity and the call for the possibility of imposing sanctions on entities and persons involved in cyberattacks on europeans or our infrastructure. the response to such blatant violations of our online security must be decisive. it is also necessary to continue to work at a rapid pace on defence capabilities in this area. the call for proposals for concrete actions to combat disinformation and the possibility of manipulating public sentiment in europe is also an important step. we have a series of important choices ahead of us, and it is crucial that public institutions and citizens themselves have the tools to be able to flag false and manipulated information online. calling the council is a step in the right direction.
mr. chairman, please! from the point of view of the committee on culture, 6 points suggest that the budget can be considered satisfactory. first, of course, the increase in erasmus+ programmes, which we have been fighting for since the beginning. the result is more than satisfactory: 5 million more for creative europe. and that's very important, and it's very important, because that's where we had the biggest underestimation. €3.9 million more for the cross-sectoral creative europe instrument is a very good decision. and 3.3 million more for media activities. in my view, it is particularly gratifying that nearly 20 of the 29 pilot projects submitted have been selected. that's the best result in years. and a million for special annual events. we've always had a gap here, and i'm very happy that it's been filled as well.
mr. chairman, please! the ubiquitous plastic has been polluting the environment for years, but i abstained on a report on reducing the impact of certain plastic products. it is also the result of previous policies that, 'driven without imagination', have led to pollution on an unimaginable scale. in europe alone, 15 tons of plastic are thrown into the sea every year, and on a global scale, 8 million tons of plastic are thrown into the oceans, where it's a problem for all living organisms, not just the seas and oceans, but the birds that ingest plastic. and the impact of microplastics on human health is completely unknown. therefore, there is a need to reduce the environmental disaster by effective methods. however, i am in favour of leaving it to member states to choose the instruments to reduce the use of single-use plastic products. i would also like to see the decision to introduce legislation on packaging collection and recycling left. beyond legislation, there is an urgent need for information, education, both for packaging manufacturers and for the public worldwide, and the involvement of scientists to reduce the problem of pollution.
mr. chairman, please! i'm a big believer in taking care of the environment, taking care of the ecology, starting with yourself, starting with the simple behaviors in your own household. i must say that for this reason too i had no doubt about how to react to both the amendments and the report itself. i supported them. i think we should be more rational, more consistent, more determined in this matter. i am satisfied with the report itself and with the findings of today, but i must stress that our reaction to this matter is unfortunately a little late. what do i notice first? first of all, i would like to draw attention to the production system itself. such restrictions should be imposed in order to reduce the production of plastics. the second element, which is equally important, is to select, to pay attention to what is already in the landfill, and then we will have a certain set of actions in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! so, limiting plastic is a challenge, but it's also a necessity for us. we're actually drowning in a mountain of plastic garbage. this garbage is everywhere. this action to reduce plastic is absolutely necessary and absolutely necessary. fifteen tons of plastic are thrown into the sea every year in europe alone, and worldwide, we're talking about eight million tons of garbage that end up in the oceans. and you should know that 70% of all the waste in the oceans is plastic. some single-use plastic products for which there are readily available and cheap substitutes should simply be withdrawn from the market. we have to be mindful that there should also be preventive measures, to make people aware of the harm of plastic. and of course, i'm also leaning very hard to limit the amount of plastic bottles that are being used every day in the millions, if not billions of tons around the world. i think this is the right direction, although i think that the objectives set are unfortunately too general and difficult to achieve. so we should specify these goals so that we can be effective.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i will speak on the lisbon treaty as well. i believe that it has brought immense progress to the functioning of the eu in terms of efficiency, democracy and also transparency. but it maintained and enhanced the system of intergovernmental policy coordination, which was very different from the community method, and for many of us this has been a disappointment. as a result, important policy decisions and actions are based on the voluntary commitment of member states, with all its consequences. we saw during the time of ‘polycrisis’ that this working method does not work when key challenges are at stake. the committee on constitutional affairs has proposed – and the whole house accepted when voting through a series of reports last year – the logic to first explore fully the potential of the lisbon treaty and only then to reflect on the changes to the treaty that would be necessary to attain desiderata the boundaries of the treaty of lisbon do not allow to be pursued. but we all know that today unanimity makes treaty revision virtually impossible. there is a long list of issues on which the union has moved forward, building on the unexploited treaty potential – pesco is a recent example here – but the list regarding unused treaty potential remains even longer: the passerelle clause that has never been used; the european parliament’s right of inquiry and its right of legislative initiative; reinforcement of the rule of law framework; transparency of council legislative decision—making; and accession to the echr. without doubt, within the lisbon treaty framework, we can move forward on completing reforms of the emu. all we need is the political will. in this house we have called for the use of qmv in the council, but also for the general use of the ordinary legislative procedure. eventually all decisions, including on the mff, should be taken by qmv, even if a very high one in some particular cases. so yes, indeed, we can clearly use the existing unexploited potential of the lisbon treaty to improve the governance of the union and its institutional set—up. i believe that this will make the treaty of lisbon more relevant to the challenges that our policy—making will face in the years to come.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the fact is that we are trying to talk about the lisbon treaty from two extreme positions. some say the lisbon treaty is great, we are all going to move on; others say it is hopeless and should be torn up and thrown away. i don't think it was. the problem with the european union today is that the lisbon treaty is often not respected, and i have the impression that the real power in the union has nothing to do with the laws of the lisbon treaty, that in fact today the two main states in the european union have the main position in the formation of european policy, and this is not at all rooted in the lisbon treaty. of course, this treaty needs to be improved, because the responsibilities between the president of the european commission and the president of the council have not been specified. we remember in this parliament the war between mr barroso and the then president of the council, and the fact that they were sometimes absent because they boycotted each other. that needs to change.
mr. chairman, please! the treaty of lisbon has a prehistory. this prehistory is the rejection of the constitution for europe by the french, by the dutch and by mr timmermans' countrymen. in the history of the lisbon treaty, it is - and i dedicate this to richard corbett above all - that gordon brown has unfortunately withdrawn, as have the leaders of other european countries, from holding the referendum. if there had been a british referendum then, we wouldn't have brexit today. but this treaty is the law. unfortunately, this law is not treated as a law by those who are supposed to enforce it. we have heard today from mr timmermans: a qualified majority would be useful, we hear from mrs sophia in 't veld about the mechanism for monitoring democracy, we hear that article 7 is not enough. ladies and gentlemen, in the classic concept of the rule of law, the authorities were satisfied with the powers they had, rather than thinking about how to increase them. the law is a way of regulating, in the case of treaties, relations between states, not a tool to increase one's power.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: for 23 years - in fact, for 24 years - since the court began drawing up the statements of assurance for the annual report, the opinion has always been negative. now, for the second year in a row, the court has issued a qualified opinion on payments, so there is progress. but remember, this is still not a clean opinion. this could be granted if the estimated error rate did not exceed the 2% threshold. what's important to note, in my opinion, is that there's been a lot of progress here, because in 2015 we had almost 4% of this error in payments (3.8%), in 2016 it was 3.1%, and now it's 2.4%, so it's clearly better. however, it is worth emphasising that the biggest problem is with regard to the cost-reimbursement principle. here the situation is much worse, because this includes spending in areas with the highest error rates. finally, i must say that this report by the court is solid. we thank the president and his team and, on behalf of the ecr group, we declare our cooperation in the further annual reports. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - what is it? - a good question, mr. ambassador. well, of course, i think it's more intellectual than practical consideration here. i think we should try to lower that threshold, and i'm not a big believer in ideal situations. it is not possible, although i think we need to work step by step to improve these results, because this increases the credibility of our european institutions, and i think this is important.
mr president, commissioner, president, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. of course, as the president said, we are talking about one percent of our national product or national income, but it is that one percent that is going to change the face of the european union. it's our public money, and the fact that you're making sure it's spent legally, and also efficiently, that performance orientation, i'd say that's a plus. i would distinguish between two different things in this annual report. i would like to thank the court of auditors for simply knowing what is happening and for presenting this picture to us. secondly, the conclusions we should draw for ourselves, which is what president gräßle said, are to speed up, to arrange the repayments of the appropriations for the member states in a rhythmic way. but it is not the fault of the european commission or the court of auditors that the member states are doing this. finally, because time is running out, i would like to stress the importance of the european court of auditors' cooperation with national courts, because this can help us all.
mr. chairman, please! i shall concentrate on cultural issues in this report. i was to speak as a representative of that committee and to make a brief statement. first, i'm looking at the new programs that are coming out. they are, for example, pleased to see the european solidarity corps entering its implementation phase. that's, i remind you, two and a half thousand internships. it's worth noting that, and it's worth noting that with such a positive opinion. the continued low absorption and insufficient geographical coverage of the two instruments, but above all the student loan guarantees under the erasmus+ programme, may be a cause for concern. this is where adjustments are necessary. a second concern is the persistently low success rates of projects funded under the europe for citizens and creative culture programmes. let me remind you that there we have 20 percent and 15 percent absorption respectively among the good conclusions, that is, those conclusions that have been positively evaluated. i'm noticing that.
in writing. the annual report of the european court of auditors is a good opportunity to recall how the european union generates its budget. in 2017, the union budget amounted to eur 137,4 billion, of which the largest share, eur 78,4 billion, was paid by the member states in direct proportion to their gross national income. in addition, €20.3 billion came from customs duties and €16.6 billion from vat. thus, the total eu budget represents no more than about 1% of the eu's gross national income. at the same time, it is important to remember that budgetary expenditure is an important tool for achieving eu policy objectives. the high level of outstanding budgetary commitments, which have risen to a record high of eur 267.3 billion, is therefore of great concern. member states shall not use the budget allocated to them to achieve the planned objectives. i am very concerned that my country, poland, has not yet used the 27 billion euros for structural investments. this money would certainly have contributed to the better economic development of the country. therefore, member states' governments should better forecast expenditure and better manage the risk of payment arrears should be a priority when planning the future multiannual financial framework for 2020-2027.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, during our work on this file, our objective was to prevent the import into and storage in the eu of cultural goods illegally exported from third countries, but also to reduce trafficking and combat financing of terrorism and, obviously, to protect cultural heritage, especially archaeological objects in countries affected by armed conflict. during our work the most important and, at the same time, the most challenging issue was the scope. luckily, we managed to achieve a good compromise, covering all those goods that deserve special protection, but at the same time limiting the scope as much as possible to those cultural goods most affected by illegal trafficking. i believe that it is extremely important not to overburden market actors and disturb the licit trade of cultural goods in the eu, therefore, i am very happy that red tape for the art market will be avoided, in particular for smes. this will be possible through the establishment of an economic threshold in addition to the 250—year threshold, which means that not all goods with zero value will be covered by this regulation. to give you an example, without an economic threshold, books from the 18th century which are worth nothing would fall under the scope and administrative costs would probably be higher than the value of the book itself, and that would kill the market. we need common rules to ensure effective protection against the loss of cultural goods and the prevention of terrorist financing through the sale of looted cultural heritage to buyers in the eu. this is the first step towards well-balanced legislation which will protect cultural heritage while enabling the stakeholders concerned to keep trading without barriers.
mr. chairman, please! the polish delegation has so far supported the original commission text, as we consider that the looting of works of art, especially from areas affected by armed conflict, is a shameful practice that can additionally serve to finance international terrorism. but in parliament, the commission's text has been distorted, including by extending the scope of the regulation to all international trade, which could paralyse customs. the union is also subject to additional obligations in the form of protection of cultural heritage in third countries, which is imprecise and may, for example, involve financing of suspicious projects from the union budget, without adequate supervision. in addition, as poland in particular argues, there is no adequate it system for the registration and processing of import declarations. in conclusion, we support the fight against the abuse and the crime of trafficking in cultural goods, but we must develop practical solutions that our institutions can cope with. that is why we abstained on the text.
mr. chairman, please! together with silvia costa from the s&d group, we were the applicants in 2017 of a pilot programme that envisaged the construction of such educational modules, especially for the police, in terms of navigating this particular market of illegal trade in works of art. i'm very happy that this program is being implemented in 2018, but it's worth expanding. but, returning to today's debate, i would like to highlight four elements which i believe are extremely valuable and have been included in the document. firstly, the establishment of a common definition of cultural goods in transit is an important issue. ensure that importers exercise due diligence when purchasing cultural goods from third countries. the third element specification of the standard information for the certification of the legal origin of cultural goods. finally, effective deterrent measures should be introduced, in particular to discourage illegal trade.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. it is very significant that the european parliament and the council have adopted the european agenda on security to combat illicit trafficking in cultural goods. the initiative aims to prevent the import and storage in the eu of cultural goods illegally exported from third countries, which is expected to contribute to reducing the illicit trade in these goods and to protecting cultural heritage, especially in countries affected by armed conflict. to this end, the regulation proposes to establish a common definition of cultural goods, to define standard information confirming the legal origin of the product, to introduce effective measures to discourage the illicit trade in cultural goods and to promote the active involvement of interested parties in the protection of cultural heritage. furthermore, and importantly, the principle was formulated that cultural goods are only allowed to enter the customs territory of the union if an import licence has been obtained or a declaration has been lodged by the importer. in order to avoid circumvention in cases where the exporting country is not the country where the object was produced, it is necessary to distinguish whether it is a signatory to the 1970 unesco convention, which contains a provision on combating illicit trade in cultural goods, or not.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr claudio cipriana tănăsescu, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products (com (2014) 0557 - c8-0142/2014 - 2014/0256 (cod)) (a8-0035/2016), the report by ms françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on veterinary medicinal products (com (2014) 0558 - c8-0164/2014 - 2014/0257 (cod)) (a8-0046/2016) and the report by mr w. w. on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the placing on the market and development of veterinary medicinal products and on the application of council directive 90/525/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of food and feed containing hazardous substances (com (2014) 0145 - c8-0258/2014) and commission decision 2014/577/eu) (com (2014) 01458). the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i fully support the assumptions made by our rapporteurs on veterinary medicinal products. i am glad that the commission and then the european parliament have taken up this important subject and even more glad that they have completed it. it's a great success. as a doctor, i think it is extremely important that the regulations on veterinary medicines are clearly separated from the regulations on medicinal products for human use. i think the negotiated regulations are good because they strike the right balance between the need to increase efforts to combat antimicrobial resistance, while avoiding - as is often the case - excessive administrative burdens. i am sure that the european parliament has also struck a balance between applying appropriate incentives to research and development of innovative medicines and at the same time guaranteeing, through appropriate protective regulations, free access to generic medicines through patents. it's of enormous economic importance to agriculture, for example. the report duly emphasised the role of prophylaxis and metaphylaxis and demonstrated an appropriate cascade of possible uses, in particular animal antibody agents. the issue of antibody medicinal products, for which a kind of responsibility is assumed through data collection, sales monitoring and legitimate use on prescription by a doctor or authorised persons, is also identified.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the new regulation will ensure that the european commission will carry out detailed controls on the manufacture of medicated feedingstuffs and will prohibit the prophylactic use of antibiotics, set out labelling requirements, and investigate antimicrobial resistance and regulate levels of cross-contamination with antimicrobials. i fully support the extension of the above provisions to domestic animals. in my view, this regulation can only be a transitional solution and should aim to develop modern rules for the rearing of animals fed with feed based on natural, unmodified ingredients. ensuring animal welfare and high-quality organic feed will contribute to animal welfare, i.e. the production of healthy food, which has an invaluable impact on human health. ladies and gentlemen, let's promote the idea of moving away from antibiotic therapy in food-producing animals.
mr. chairman, please! the directive states that the pricing mechanism in the veterinary sector operates on completely different principles than in the case of humans. no, the pricing mechanism is always the same, but you interfere differently in both markets, so the results are different. the pricing rules are always the same and will remain the same in the future. we are moving in this case towards the approximation of these regulations to those that affect people, and therefore towards price increases. and you have to be prepared for the fact that whatever your intentions, that's what the consequences will be. the second point i would like to make is the reference to article 13 of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. that's what article 13 is all about, that animals should only be used for research as a last resort. but what about animal drug trials? what are they supposed to be tested on? i think it's an unintentional consequence of the fact that animal drugs should be tested on humans. i'm guessing that's not what the creators intended, but they indirectly led to this legislative proposal through ill-advised appeals.
mr. chairman, please! i am not dealing with medical or veterinary problems, i am dealing with safety problems and, looking at this problem from such a very, very broad point of view, i would like to thank mrs grossetête very much, who has done a great job, and i emphasize this in particular because it is not an easy problem, nor is it well received in terms of its details. but i would like to take this opportunity to call for educational elements, for better information not only for those who are professionally involved in what we are talking about today, but also for those individual recipients of the various services in this area. my appeal is prompted by observing the behavior of anti-vaccinationists who are creating a mess in people's heads by demanding a waiver of mandatory vaccination in these basic elements. i think it's very important.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is very satisfied that the european parliament has shown broad support for the one-health approach, where animal and human health are addressed together in the important fight against antimicrobial resistance. the international dimension in the fight against resistance is equally important, as this problem does not stop at the border. for this, i would like to stress the importance of international dialogue to developing common rules through, for example, a dialogue at the g20. on the topic of human health, our regulation provides for the development of a list of antimicrobials that are reserved for human use. this will increase the chance of preventing resistance. with regard to human medicine, the commission will complete the assessment of other actions which would be the most appropriate and effective. regarding effecting controls on third countries, the commission will pay special attention to the way the measures are applied in third countries, including through controls. concerning possible red tape, we have taken into account for a long time now the special needs of smes. for example, we dedicated support from the european medicines agency to reducing the fees to be paid by smes. i would like to thank one more time all three rapporteurs for their sense of priority and their focus, which led to a successful negotiation of this regulatory package.
allow me to express my personal satisfaction. it is a pleasure to preside over debates that take place in such a creative, sympathetic, mutually understanding atmosphere, and applause, regardless of the political side that speaks. and the applause is from the whole room. i'm closing this joint debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018.
the next item is the report by christine revault d'allonnes bonnefoy, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the charging of certain types of infrastructure by heavy goods vehicles (com (2017) 0275) (a8-0202/2018).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. europe obviously needs modern and secure infrastructure, and that requires significant investment - a truism. we understand the need to raise new funds for this purpose and fully agree with the principle that the users who contribute most to the use of roads should bear the greatest costs of their maintenance and construction. unfortunately, this report goes far beyond this objective and also covers the passenger cars of individual road users. this is a huge burden for citizens of the member states and a significant financial barrier to access to the cheap and, in many regions, the only common means of transport, the car. we also have serious concerns about whether the closed list of objectives for which road toll revenues may be allocated equally responds to the investment needs of the different member states. in the opinion of the group of the european right, these ideas go far beyond the scope of the commission's proposal and we cannot therefore support this report in tomorrow's vote.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much. this debate is becoming more lively here, and i think this is the moment when we need to answer questions of a primal nature. if we look at this directive, we have to answer four questions. the first question is: are the new legal and financial solutions countering the degradation of europe's road network? this degradation is a fact. secondly, are there any chances of a faster transition to greener vehicles thanks to the proposals of parliament and the council? thirdly, will the level of safety in the whole of road traffic improve, but also, and this is important, will drivers have a chance of better working conditions? and fourthly, will it become more common for road users to also participate in improving the environment? my answer to these four questions is a positive one overall, which is why i think we should be actively working on this directive.
mr. chairman, please! air pollution has enormous social and environmental costs. the european union is facing a shortening of life expectancy due to air pollution. i think anyone who respects the environment, respects other people, will lean on this directive. i'm very happy that we're introducing the polluter pays principle. but i'm also glad we've moved away from the whole "pay-as-you-go" thing. it would be a punishment for those who are stuck in traffic through no fault of their own. i'm happy and supportive of the idea that distance is pay. i do, however, share the doubts raised by claudia schmidt here that these charges would be levied on private car users. this is a matter for the member states and we should not pass this on to private road users who often lack the resources to do so. so i hope that the amendments which have been tabled in the course of the work on this directive, and which concern private users, will find a majority in this house. but of course i'm leaning towards all those voices that say we need to take care of the environment, we need to fight before it's too late.
mr. chairman, please! i have to admit, i'm not thrilled with this project. it has many disadvantages, it creates new burdens for drivers, for car owners, for others. i have to say, lately it's been systematic taxation and gasoline and tolls and parking and et cetera, et cetera. but something has to be done, we cannot be indifferent to these challenges that are related to climate protection, with respect to those who do not have transportation and are the negative beneficiaries of the development of automobiles. i would like to draw attention to one aspect which i consider to be very important, namely the clarity of the policy, its structure so that it is understandable to those to whom it is addressed. today's charging systems are extremely complex, complicated, unclear and unfortunately they also build hostility to the kind of legal acts that we are talking about today.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this very concrete debate. i would like to thank again all of your members who have contributed to this discussion. i am really encouraged by seeing that parliament has confirmed its broad support for the commission proposals. at the same time, i hear, of course, the concerns regarding the more controversial elements of the proposal, and let me briefly react to some of your concerns. some of you suggested that the eu should not regulate road charging for passenger cars. my answer is that we cannot ignore the impact of cars on infrastructure wear and tear and on the environment at local, regional and even at the global level. cars are responsible for the lion’s share of external costs – two—thirds of co2 emissions in road transport, which is 60% of all emissions in transport – so we cannot simply ignore that. next, we propose to extend the scope of the directive to high vehicles, including ldvs – where there was a comment that this is not the case. for zero-emission vehicles we propose incentives, and i’d like to be very clear on that – a special discount on infrastructure charges of 75% – so that is a very strong incentive. let me also insist one more time on the fact that the directive, tomorrow, just like today, will not force member states to charge for infrastructure. again, we are setting common rules. that is all we are doing. we are setting common rules, not imposing the level of charges. for example, if the uk imposes a charge on uk hgvs today, this is the result of a uk decision. this proposal does not change that fact. allow me also to stress that road charges are not a tax, as this is a way to pay for a service – access to the infrastructure – and for externalities. the commission has actually proposed allowing member states to have some additional vehicle tax incentives, if i can call them that, on hgvs in parallel with the introduction of tolls. so this can be already done, and this is part of the proposal. the commission receives also numerous complaints about discrimination against foreign motorists, especially from border areas, and recurring complaints against national charging schemes. i do believe that common principles, agreed at eu level, are needed and justified, and all the more so as member states remain fully free to decide whether to charge or not, but if they do, there are certain rules they should respect – common rules. it is also worth mentioning that common principles are an important element of seamless mobility models that we are foreseeing in the forthcoming years. as a final remark, let me express one more time my real appreciation for the work you have done. it was crucial to conclude the discussions in parliament before the elections and i am confident that the position adopted in the european parliament will serve as a solid base for the negotiations with the council, so i really look forward to a positive vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today we're dealing with an amendment to the clean vehicles directive, the current version of which for a number of reasons - i won't mention them - doesn't work as we would expect. so the decision was to either abandon the regulation altogether or reform the system, which is not the most perfect. the commission has opted for the latter, proposing a system based on binding purchase, leasing or service objectives in public tenders. in the european parliament, we have had to answer the question of how we define a clean vehicle. most agreed that, alongside zero-emission vehicles, there should also be vehicles that offer the greatest chance of reducing air pollution, both by dust, nitrogen oxides and other pollutants. in order to find a suitable solution, we decided to base the definition of a clean vehicle on an already existing and agreed text, using the fuel list contained in the directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure, with certain restrictions that apply to biofuels, in particular first generation. we have thus created a synergy between the new law and the existing law. this will promote clean transport, support the development of new technologies such as electric cars or those powered by alternative fuels, and thereby also improve air quality, help us combat smog, a new challenge in many cities, and lay the foundation for achieving the climate goals agreed in the paris agreement. the objectives we have adopted must be achievable by the public bodies which will implement this directive. these regulations must also take into account the principle of subsidiarity. i must therefore stress the need to ensure that these objectives are financed at an appropriate level. otherwise, local authorities will not be able or will not be able to buy vehicles whose price is currently significantly higher than the price of traditional vehicles. it is often twice as high, for example in the case of buses. as a result, they will be able to change their rolling stock more slowly, which may jeopardise the development of public transport. many local authorities also have tasks to perform in relation to public transport in non-urban areas, in rural areas. it's a whole different technology that's needed to drive these buses. one of the objectives of the directive is to generate low-emission vehicle procurement on a scale that also supports innovation and the production of vehicles based on new solutions. but we must also remember european producers, so that they do not fall victim to unfair competition. that is why we are voting tomorrow on an amendment which is intended to restore a level playing field for all producers and to encourage those countries which do not allow european producers into their public procurement markets to do so. otherwise, vehicles produced by companies from such countries will not be eligible for the purposes of the directive. i would also like to appeal - i think i can also say this on behalf of all the co-rapporteurs, whom i thank very much for their cooperation in the work on this regulation - to the presidency that the european parliament will be ready to start negotiations from tomorrow. we therefore ask that the council conclude its work on the general approach as soon as possible so that we can adopt the directive before the end of the current parliament's term.
mr. chairman, please! we have a very green day today, but i'll say right away that it's probably also quite expensive for individual users, for manufacturers, for legal entities. why did i say that? because i always want to be aware of the consequences and costs of the changes that are being made, so that we can also estimate the impact on those who are poorer, who simply cannot afford certain things today. it's not that i'm against all these environmental laws, i'm just fighting for them to happen. but i have to admit that i am surprised to see from time to time, on the left of the political spectrum, that this concern for the environment and the poorest of the poor is not going hand in hand. who drives the worst, most toxic cars today? oh, my poor people. if we raise the cost of producing cars, we raise the cost of using them, and unfortunately, we make it harder for those who are less fortunate.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this stimulating debate. i am happy to know that there is broad support in parliament for these proposals and objectives. let me comment on some of your questions and comments. on the comment related to eu manufacturers, most eu manufacturers already have clean vehicles on the market and are investing to further expand their offer well before the date of application of this revised directive. many eu cities, regions and transport authorities have also already taken strategic decisions to advance the introduction of clean vehicles. the proposal will not penalise eu manufacturers. on the contrary, it will facilitate their investment planning and help them remain competitive in this market. this is particularly needed in light of the quickly accelerating global competition and increasing market share of non-eu manufacturers. in addition, the commission is open to considering an alternative approach, based on alternative fuels, only if the proposed sub—targets for zero-emission vehicles are maintained at a necessary level of ambition. finally, let me stress again that i warmly welcome your ambition to conclude the negotiation before the parliamentary recess. there are of course certain aspects that will need to be clarified in cooperation with the council, but i am confident that the right solution can be found and swift agreement can be reached between the co-legislators. therefore, i look forward to the adoption of mr grzyb’s report in plenary tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much for this debate. i can say that for example this indicator that 70 percent of buses are purchased through public procurement shows how much public procurement can affect the replacement of the fleet and its quality, and the level of emissions that come from this fleet. on the other hand, we also realize that in public transportation, the use of buses, for example, is not a seven or eight-year period, as in cars, for example. this is a period of often 15 years and therefore there is a proposal that has also been criticised, retrofitting, that is to say, the conversion of the drive units in these buses. we think this is extremely important because many local authorities - for example, tallinn, many other cities - have spoken about this in the consultation when we met with representatives of local and regional authorities. we did the job. what is more important, buying one new electric bus or replacing, say, ten buses with old diesel engines? i think we're getting a lot more results in a shorter amount of time here. each of these elements will affect the final result of the objective we want to achieve with this directive. the second thing is, of course, biofuels. we are convinced that, given the objectives we have set ourselves in the context of the circular economy and the experience of local authorities, the introduction of biofuels, in particular those derived from the recycling of organic waste, for example, is also a goal that is already being pursued in many local authorities, in the framework of so-called energy clusters or local energy communities. we should take that into account. and finally, i want to say that many local governments have also started to change their public transportation and service systems towards clean vehicles. often, the percentage of these vehicles in countries that are not the richest is much higher than in countries that have much higher gdp per capita. so local governments have seen this opportunity to improve air quality, because transport is responsible for 40 to 60 percent of emissions. so i think we have allies here - not just those who are defending themselves against european regulation, but also those who want to benefit from it. commissioner, thank you very much for your cooperation and for your statements. fast work on the final negotiation.
in writing. the adopted directive is a very ambitious project which will involve major changes for many local and regional entities covered by public procurement law. however, i am convinced that the example must come from the top and that promoting green and energy-efficient vehicles in public institutions is an important step towards co2 emission levels in the european union. i believe that the rapporteur has succeeded in drawing up a proposal which balances the social interest with the challenges facing local authorities and vehicle manufacturers. i agree that contracting authorities and contracting entities will need support, including financial support, from the union, as the ecological transition will entail costs that may be difficult for smaller entities to bear. i also think that the rules designed to protect eu producers from unfair competition are important.
in writing. clean air, environmental protection, is the condition of a generation of civilization! today we are looking for ways to minimize the harmful impact of road transport on the environment. we should limit the number of combustion vehicles, especially in our cities. a network of subways, trams, and trolleybuses can be a perfect answer to the congested streets of today's big cities. the use of electricity as a transport driver is a viable and proven alternative. but it is vital that this energy be produced in an environmentally friendly, efficient and... cheap way! poland has made great progress in this field. we can use the latest technology to generate electricity in a low-carbon, efficient and cheap way. and that's what modern coal-fired power plants are doing. we should not be fighting polish coal, but global emissions!
mr. chairman, please! it's very late, it's the 22nd, so to sum up, we need to remember the source of this debate. the debate was prompted by the questions from the committee on culture to the committee on the automatic nature - i emphasise the automatic nature - of the recognition of diplomas, because diplomas are very often recognised, and the problem is precisely that automatic nature which we lack. the question was put to the commission, but it is the de facto task of the states to make an effort, within their own countries, to recognise automatically diplomas awarded in other countries. but i'll just focus on two things at the end. first, the validity of the erasmus+ programme, which builds both experiences and some common denominators for the education acquired in individual countries by young people from different countries of the european union. and the second thing to remember is the legal uncertainty that is building up at the moment because of the potential for brexit. i'm drawing attention to this because young people are very keen to study in the uk. we know that for a transitional period, this rule will be maintained, which is the rule at the moment, but then there may be a problem. i'm noticing it today.
in writing. the introduction of automatic recognition of diplomas promotes educational mobility and encourages people to study abroad. educational mobility can contribute to positive changes in educational practice, faster access to education, the development of higher education and the research sector. furthermore, facilitating the recognition of diplomas and periods of study can contribute to the activation of the labour market, worker mobility and economic development. unfortunately, there are obstacles to this. students often have no guarantee that their diplomas obtained in one member state will be recognised in another. i support the commission's proposed recommendations, the consequences of which will make it possible to create an integrated european education area and the functioning of an open european labour market, provided that they are implemented in all member states. it should be noted, however, that it is the individual countries that are responsible for their education and training systems. the automatic recognition of diplomas should be without prejudice to the right of the education and training institution to decide on the admission of a candidate. an important aspect of the project is the willingness of the individual countries to engage in the proposed actions, respecting their competences. the planned actions should be complementary to national actions. the current legislation in poland already implements the idea of automatic recognition of higher education diplomas and secondary school leaving certificates issued in an eu, eea and oecd country. i encourage all member states to make a commitment to this end.
madam president! this query is a real time machine. as i read these anxious questions: how will it be, whether the supply chain of medical supplies will survive our next regulation, it reminds me of the meetings of our communist party, which i remember from my childhood, how every year the communist sages met to think about how to efficiently conduct the collections this year. and then it would all fall apart because there was no string for the tie. elsewhere, in other countries, even then in the normal measure of the west, there were no wise men discussing the bow tie, and the bow tie always was. we didn't have one. and now we also had a lot of medical supplies, no one was short of them, so the european union decided to regulate it and now we will worry if we will get rid of all this, if everything will not work out for us, because we have three directorates that we do not know how they will cooperate with each other, so maybe we appoint a fourth one to coordinate their actions, and then a fifth one to deal with their unification. this is the way the european union is going. so i think our cardboard altiero spinelli in the lobby of the building in brussels is proud to see the direction this organization has taken, which was founded as a tool for free trade and deregulation, and has really become the next communist international.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur, the committee on international trade (inta) and the whole parliament for this report, as it’s extremely important. as you have pointed out in the report, globalisation is profoundly changing the world economic order, and we have a duty to harness this phenomenon. this is necessary to ensure that globalisation is used as a force for progress in favour of more sustainable and more inclusive growth. this report is also timely and the vote today is timely. the rules and values-based international trading order is facing the deepest crisis since the end of the second world war. the rules at the core of the international trading system are increasingly being challenged by some – even major – global players. the commission totally subscribes to the report’s recommendation that we should avoid resorting to protectionism. protectionism is an easy answer to common fears, as we all know, but it has always come with often catastrophic consequences in the longer term. the commission also concurs that itʼs vitally important to preserve the multilateral world economic order, to ensure that it remains rule- and value-based. this is why the eu is a leading advocate of the rule- and value-based international trade system – of course, with the world trade organization at its centre – while acknowledging that these rules need to be updated. this report also rightly underlines the importance of promoting sustainable development with our trade policy. this is what the eu does with the chapters on trade and sustainable development in our free trade agreements. these chapters are designed to make sure that trade policy goes hand in hand with high labour and environmental standards and with the promotion of corporate social responsibility (csr) and other trade and investment practices supporting sustainable development. as announced by my colleague, commissioner malmström, in her 15—point action plan to make the eu trade and sustainable development chapter more effective, the commission’s aims are to ensure that countries comply with the commitments to more assertive enforcement; to facilitate the monitoring role of social partners and civil society; and to make eu resources available to support implementation of the sustainable development chapters in trade agreements. let me now turn your attention to two countries that i think are extremely important in this respect: cambodia and myanmar. both of those countries benefit from the everything but arms arrangement, which guarantees completely tariff—free access to the european market for all export goods except for weapons and ammunition. however, this access is not without conditions, and in the case of myanmar, the commission will soon send a high-level eu mission there to assess the situation on the ground. this mission has to be seen within the framework of the possible withdrawal of those preferences. with cambodia, we are even a step further in the process. without clear and evident improvements on the ground, the process will result in the suspension of the trade preferences that cambodia currently enjoys. the commission also has other concrete trade measures in place that support sustainable development: the conflict minerals regulation; the fair and ethical trade award; and eu support for responsible business conduct. eu values are, furthermore, promoted through an updated regulation preventing the export of goods that could be used for capital punishment or torture. so let me conclude by saying that the commission will, of course, take your valuable recommendations into consideration for our future work on trade policy. in line with your request, the commission will continue to work to make sure that globalisation helps bring more sustainable, more inclusive growth while at the same time defending the rules and values that the international trading order is based on.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr cătălina sorin ivan on the protection of the eu's financial interests recovery of funds and assets from third countries in fraud cases 2018/2006 (ini) (a8-0298/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr ivan for his report. it is again timely. as we all know, it is our shared duty to protect the financial interests of the european union. we need to ensure that misused funds and assets are recovered in the most efficient and most effective way, including, of course, from third countries. i am convinced, like you, mr ivan, that the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) which is currently being set up, will be a game changer in our fight against criminals and fraudsters. the eppo will not only change the way member states cooperate inside the eu, but will also have a major impact on the way the eu and member states cooperate with partners in third countries. the commission agrees that this is essential to strengthen the effectiveness of international cooperation in asset recovery and supports the development of carin, a network of operational law enforcement and judicial contact points on asset recovery, which covers more than 150 countries and jurisdictions. there is a strong complementarity between the commission’s anti-corruption work and that of the council of europe group of states against corruption (greco). the commission continues the discussion with the eu council on the choice of the appropriate legal framework for the eu accession to greco and we truly welcome very much the pragmatic approach of the greco plenary. finally, eu level mutual legal assistance agreements can be good vehicles for judicial cooperation in criminal matters and they can also complement the existing agreements member states have in place. at the same time, eu level mutual legal assistance agreements, as we all know, are lengthy to negotiate and to enter into force. they also require a high degree of trust in judicial systems. this means that standards in third countries, third states, as regards, for example, the rule of law, independence of the judiciary, fundamental rights, the fight against corruption, fair trial – the judiciary should first be compatible with eu standards before the eu engages in negotiations on such agreements. eurojust also plays an important role here. it has just concluded various agreements with third countries such as ukraine, montenegro, and most recently albania. this facilitates close and swift judicial cooperation in relation to third countries and ensures that the financial interests of the union are protected and misused funds can be recovered in a proper way.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. pending the vote) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
we join in that wish.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in accordance with rule 59 (4) of parliament's rules of procedure, i request that the draft directive be referred to the committee responsible for the subject-matter for intergovernmental negotiations.
unfortunately, we can't do that because these are roll-call votes. i'm very sorry, i understand you're in a hurry. before the vote on the 14th amendment:
perhaps we will need to debate this issue someday. (the oral amendment was not accepted)
as far as i know, we'll have to ask the factions. there must be at least 38 members who will present the same motion. 38 members of parliament must request a recess.
my dear fellow! a motion has been tabled, there is a sufficient majority in favour of the motion, so i must put it to a vote. if the majority of the state decides that we continue to vote, we will continue to vote. i'm ready to continue it. i'm very sorry, but that's the procedure.
i am not going to go into the details. please read article 190! you can apply for this at any time.
your colleague has reported it, he has found support, and i have to put it to a vote, that's the principle of democracy, and you can vote to go ahead. i'm prepared to conduct this vote until tomorrow. thank you very much. thank you.
i agree with the companion about our image. just think about who's ruining that image. (the request for an adjournment was rejected) after the vote on paragraph 20:
i hereby close the vote.
we're going to go over the voting details. we shall begin with explanations of vote which could not be given yesterday, and then we shall proceed to explanations of vote on the items on which we voted today. i must inform you that we have received many requests for oral explanations of vote. we can continue this meeting until 2:45 at the latest to allow the appropriate services to prepare to resume the meeting at 3:00. any other explanation of vote may be given in writing.
mr. chairman, please! this resolution on neo-fascist violence is a pile of garbage, it's worthless trash, bad journalism written by people with no literary talent whatsoever. where's the data that justifies all this nonsense? there are thousands of victims of neo-fascist violence. how do you know there are thousands of victims? how do you know that this violence is motivated by neo-fascist ideology? how can you call a neo-fascist ideology right-wing if they were socialists? then acknowledge your left-wing socialist heritage and don't push the uncomfortable allies of the right. so it's unthinkable that we're even going to bring in any of the things that are not connected to radio or television... it is absolutely unacceptable that parliament should become a left-wing newsroom commenting on current events at the discretion of members, rather than creating legislation. i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! i supported the resolution on animal welfare, antimicrobial use and the environmental impact of industrial broiler farming and i would support any regulation that would improve food safety. a huge problem in modern farming, and not just chickens, seems to be automated, huge factory-like farms, with thousands of farms, where it's difficult not only to maintain the welfare of the animals, including the birds, but above all to provide healthy meat for the animals, including the chickens. european law allows a density limit of 33 kg per m2, sometimes even more, which means that one chicken has less space than an a4 sheet. so not only do we need to reduce the density of the population, but we need to provide access to natural light, better air quality, preferably natural food free of hormones, antibiotic growth factors, herbicides, pesticides, genetically modified feed, and also reduce ammonia emissions, which together should reduce the need for antimicrobials. it would also be important to protect the environment by minimizing stench and noise.
mr. chairman, please! i've never been able to talk to a room this empty. there are four of us left, i'm guessing, outside of the board, but any record is a record to beat, and we're looking forward to the future. as for the katowice summit, i hope that it will address issues such as the pointless erasmus programme, which encourages people to drive around europe instead of studying there, at the expense of others, emitting various carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases along the way; the paperwork that this parliament also generates, all the tons of paper it prints with its resolutions, as pointless as the one on neo-fascist violence. maybe the two houses of parliament, which emits carbon dioxide, carrying documents from one place to another, drivers, assistants, etc. perhaps the question of a hotel for members of parliament that could be built next to the parliament instead of driving members of parliament around, emitting carbon dioxide through brussels and increasing traffic congestion there; perhaps the question of nuclear energy, which i do not know why many people here oppose, but which is clean energy. i hope that such issues will not be forgotten here.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you and thank you very much for having this debate. it’s a very important debate to have about the environment for our industry, to grow, to create jobs, but also to innovate, and i think the important thing in this debate is that europe has a good and strong starting point. if you want to take a look at the statistics. europe has a very large deficit when it comes to raw materials, in particular energy. but the thing is that we have a very large trade surplus in manufactured goods, like cars, machines, chemicals. in other words, europe’s part is in a value chain where the jobs are and where the value is created, and this is how we have brought it so far. and if you don’t want to look at the statistics, look at the magnificent european companies as you see them and as you see their products every day. so, we have a solid industrial base thanks to european innovation, thanks to european productivity and thanks to our internal market which rests on fair competition and openness. but we can do more. we can do more to level the global playing field and to create opportunities for a fair and open internal market. there’s plenty of work ahead of us to remain competitive and to shape globalisation so that it serves our citizens and builds on a level playing field, in particular when it concerns subsidies, reciprocity in public procurement and screening of foreign direct investment. a rule-based system which is fair, where open markets is the rule, that’s our interest. but it’s being challenged by some of our partners questioning the global rule-based system and cooperation. the commission is working to enforce the existing rules, so that when we trade with japan and with the us, well, we don’t only trade, we also discuss how to strengthen the world trade organisation’s rules on industrial subsidies. in relation to my portfolio as commissioner for competition, we also have started a dialogue with china about subsidies and fair competition. as to procurement, we already have rules in place which allow a buyer to reject an offer which is unrealistically cheap, but also here we can do more. foreign bidders take part in public tenders all across europe, yet european bidders, they often find ‘buy local restrictions’ when they bid in foreign countries with european goods, and this is why the commission has proposed an international procurement instrument. once adopted, it will ensure reciprocity and not only that, it will also strengthen our leverage in trade negotiations with third countries to open their markets for fair procurement processes. and we also have proposed a framework to screen foreign direct investment that affects our security and public order. we continue to work with the parliament and the council to make progress on these proposals. but we also need to make good use of the tools that we have already. for instance, to apply modern trade defence mechanisms to maintain fair competition worldwide. and when we think about the challenges ahead of us, in particular those that relate to digitalisation, it’s important that we factor in how competition helps us to make our industries competitive. companies have to compete and when they do, well, they are encouraged to make the products that consumers want, to develop new business ideas and attract even more businesses. and that’s good for consumers and for companies. when a company is a consumer champion in europe, well it can conquer consumers in all corners of the world, provided of course that it has open and fair market access. all companies, big as well as small, should have a fair chance to achieve this also when they are faced with large multinationals, and that is why we stop dominant companies from shutting down competition from new competitors, and this is also why we have to review mergers, at least the large ones. well, we approve almost all mergers that are notified to us. over the last 10 years more than 3 000 mergers were looked at but only seven were prohibited, were blocked, and in only slightly more than 5% of cases companies proposed solutions to our concerns, for example to sell a factory to a competitor to preserve competition in europe. many of the mergers that we have approved, well they have strengthened european companies like peugeot and opel, like inbev and sabmiller, like siemens and gamesa, world-wide known competitors. but we should not confuse the size of the individual company with the strength of our economy. these are not necessarily the same thing. for every company that wants a merger to happen there are often many european companies that are affected customers. steel is a good example of that. it makes the steel that goes into our dishwashers, cars, machinery, and these are businesses that boost our exports. steel users, well they employ over 30 million people in europe. so in our merger cases, we ensure that steel companies continue to compete, so that prices stay competitive for all the many, many businesses that need steel in their production. and just to finalise, a few words on the state aid rules, because companies cannot get state aid simply to shut down a factory and move it to another european country. it is prohibited in a fair single market that taxpayers pay for jobs moving from one country to another. but we do approve state aid that creates jobs in europe, if they do that without distorting competition. just last month we authorised slovakia to support jaguar and bring new jobs to the disadvantaged nitra region, jobs that may otherwise have been created outside of europe. the commission also simplified the rule book for state aid that doesn’t harm competition. so, now that 97% of state aid measures go ahead without needing commission approval, member states decide for themselves on the basis of a common rule book. we proposed an investeu fund to support eur 650 billion of investment. a new research and innovation programme, horizon europe, with eur 100 billion to invest. both programmes would let national funds be combined with european funds, and we want to make that as easy as possible, because industry is at the heart of our european economy and we want an industry that’s competitive and creates jobs and wealth in europe. but first of all, we want it to serve our citizens and that’s why we defend open and fair markets in europe as well as in the rest of the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. i think it's a legitimate question whether there can be a fair market for industry at all in a situation of liberalization and globalization, characterized by many negative phenomena with global terrorism, increasing social inequalities due to unequal distribution of goods and services, catastrophic levels of environmental risk, spreading demoralization, the disenfranchisement of nations, the destruction of religion, of tradition, with the dominance of a consumer society over the creative. although the european union has strict rules to prevent companies from abusing their market dominance, in practice, especially in central and eastern european countries, the internal market is dominated by huge corporations, which also trade in cheap goods from asia, eliminating small and medium-sized enterprises. that's why i think it's reasonable to ask additional questions. how does the european commission initiate and activate smes in member states with job protection, especially during downturns or economic downturns? what fiscal tools does the commission use? what are the customs barriers to prevent the market from being flooded with cheap products from outside the union, leading to a recession in some industries? has an action plan been drawn up for the medium- and long-term development of industry, especially strategic sectors such as the fuel and energy industry, so that the share of european industry in the union budget is above 20%? how does the commission intervene in bilateral agreements between member states and a non-eu third country concerning the industrial sector, and in particular the fuel and energy sector, which affect the weak competition in the economic sector? nord stream is an example.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to continue for a moment with what you said at the beginning of our meeting. yesterday in poland, in thousands of towns and cities, millions of poles celebrated the 100th anniversary of independence. it was also an opportunity to reflect on the history of the past 100 years. we had lived through a terrible war and a totalitarian communist system. freedom and democracy are not given once and for all. in 2004, poland returned to the european community and we are once again co-creating western civilization. this is what our ancestors fought for. poles and poles today - and this is what i wanted to say to my colleagues in the european parliament - understand that the guarantor of an independent and strong poland is the european union, a union of dialogue and partnership, but at the same time uncompromising in respecting the principles of freedom, human rights and the rule of law. this is a continuation of what the president was saying just now on the occasion of the end of the first world war.
madam president! the way we're trying to fight this big problem -- because global warming, man-made climate change and pollution is a problem -- is as wrong as it gets. first, we're not technologically neutral, we're clearly trying to push some technologies at the expense of others, sometimes for unclear reasons and without sufficient knowledge of the technology. we should be working to create mechanisms that charge all environmental users equally for some kind of fee, and the technologies that they develop to avoid those fees are their own business, we can't impose those technologies on them. and the belief that if we reduce europe's share, which is only 10% of global emissions, we will save the planet's climate, is wrong, and relying on false assumptions leads to bad policies and discourages others, because everyone sees that energy-intensive industries are moving away from europe and not following our lead. raising those rates from 30% to 50% is not helping matters any more. it's all wrong and it's all wrong.
madam president! as the head of the itre committee, i would like to start by congratulating all the rapporteurs on this achievement. it's a really big deal. the objectives are ambitious, and i would suggest that we stop multiplying them now and focus on the task at hand. because we have a governance mechanism for the energy union, because if we want to be credible in the paris agreement, we have to meet the targets that we set. it's also about saving our planet from another threat, parallel to it, which is smog. four hundred thousand people die prematurely in the european union, and that's why some of the provisions, i wanted to say about that, some of the provisions in the renewable energy directive are very beneficial from this point of view, for example for the heating system or for prosumers, which is very important in the countryside. one more thing, mr. blanco lópez mentioned the need for the citizens to support our proposals, i agree. they may also have big ambitions for climate protection, very good, but in some regions there are as many as forty-one. upper silesia is one such region, which you will visit next month for cop24. there is a need for a just energy transition, and it was in the itre committee that we voted for a program of almost five billion euros. that was my suggestion, that such a program be within the budget. we have to vote on it on wednesday, it's very important for our citizens.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the clean energy package is underpinned by the energy union, with decarbonisation as one of its pillars. i would remind you that the paris agreement was reached because decarbonisation was removed from its final form. i'm totally against decarbonization. the focus on decarbonisation threatens to permanently lose industrial competitiveness and to have a huge social cost, especially for economies with a high share of coal in their energy mix, such as poland. unfortunately, decarbonization is taking precedence over energy solidarity and just transition. it will hit mining regions like silesia hard. the energy efficiency directive, on the other hand, introduces an absurd requirement of an annual final energy reduction of 0.8%, thus confusing energy efficiency with energy saving. this will threaten economic growth and increase energy poverty. i have more respect for the renewable energy regulation. the rules on biomass, biofuels and the integration of res into district heating have been designed in a balanced way and i consider them to be a good example of a compromise between what is desirable and what is possible. my concern is the higher purpose. the german example shows that a massive shift towards renewable energy sources leads to high costs.
madam president! my colleague, mrs wiśniewska, has just spoken very competently, as usual, about the support for the heating system and the substantial amendments which have been adopted on her initiative. these are important amendments for my country and i think for many interested parties in europe. i would suggest that we maybe talk less at the declaration level, maybe less slogans, less slogans, and more concrete. less elevation and more of what is important, for the households, as my predecessor has just said. i think we should look at it from the perspective of the individual, from the perspective of many families, including those who are not necessarily in a privileged economic situation, for whom the changes we are making may have consequences, the question is what? and finally, i want to point out that these different proposals are not equally beneficial for all countries, and that's something to keep in mind.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to refer in particular to the directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources. the important thing about this directive is that it supports not only the energy producers for whom this is their main source of activity, but above all the prosumers, i.e. consumers, individuals, companies especially in rural areas who have invested or will be able to invest in renewable energy for their own needs, but also will be able to store and resell it. this is important because wealthy people will not be able to be ignored by the legislation of the member states, as has often been the case. secondly, i want to emphasise the role that this regulation has given to local energy communities. they can reshape the energy market in places that, although connected to the grid, do not have a secure energy supply. they may also use sources that are linked to the circular economy. biofuels: we have decided to limit the amount of biofuels on the market that can cause a high iluc risk, but i also want to emphasize that biofuels produced from native crops do not compete with food production, and at the same time this production can produce high protein feed, and yet we import this protein from soy, for example from those areas where this iluc effect is also caused by soy. next generation biofuels, organic waste from agriculture, forestry is also the future in this sector.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'm afraid when you talk about efficiency, you don't understand the concept. the technical terms are difficult to understand. but when we make legislative decisions, we need to know what they are about. we cannot say that the 32.5% target in the efficiency directive means an increase in efficiency of 32.5%. it's the final energy savings, miscalculated to primary energy. a misunderstanding of this concept, even though the definition is correct, leads to the omission of important links in the energy flow chain with the greatest potential for efficiency improvements. by adopting one unrealistic pef, the commission fails to understand its role in shaping efficiency trends. commissioner, the efficiency directive is a legislative bubble in my view, because it concerns limits on energy use rather than true efficiency.
madam president! the energy transition is a necessity, we all know that, but the combination of these three dossiers shows how serious the differences are not just in this room, within political groups, but within individual countries. what's the main difference between us? almost everything: the pace, the scope, the responsibility, the cost, the level of management, the sources of regulation, which i pay attention to, because on the one hand, they point to, for example, smog, on the other hand, to the economy, on the other hand, to the sources of poverty. i want to draw attention to this at this time, because the key to reconciling these different interests will be the tools used and their adequacy to address certain issues in individual countries.
in writing. europeans are increasingly and severely affected by excessive air quality standards, cities are struggling with smog and pollution-related illnesses are on the rise. there is therefore no doubt that it is necessary to increase the share of clean energy in the european energy mix. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i am therefore against binding commitments for individual member states to share renewable energy in their energy mix. it is necessary to apply a flexible approach taking into account the specific characteristics of each member state.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to begin by congratulating and thanking mrs tomašić for her very important report on the multiannual plan for small pelagic species in the adriatic sea and the fisheries exploiting these resources. i would like to stress that we have a generational responsibility to pursue sustainable levels of fishing for these fish and to properly manage the marine ecosystem. the level of catches should be such as to achieve msy, the maximum sustainable yield, but it should be borne in mind that anchovies and sardines are an important economic element in the income of the fisheries sectors of each country. the multiannual plan must be based on scientific facts in full symbiosis with public opinion and with the good practices of the individual countries fishing in the basin, so that the exploitation of small pelagic species in the adriatic sea must be based on stable and effective management foundations and implemented in a generational perspective, on the one hand, but on the other hand, respecting science and public opinion.
madam president, this strategic file has been long awaited and i hope that we will avoid any unnecessary delays. the aim of this proposal is to establish a framework for the management of adriatic pelagic stocks. it should provide a balanced approach to the sustainable exploitation of these stocks, because this will lead to the stability of fishing opportunities, and that in turn will lead to the secure livelihood of fishermen. at the same time, it should guarantee that this management is based on the most up—to—date scientific advice regarding the status of stocks covered, and also interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries. there are two points i would like to mention right now. firstly, the most important thing is the implementation of the common fisheries policy – the reform and the regionalisation as well. the voice of the regions must be heard and put into practice. secondly, i have always been a big supporter of flexibility of management plans. they should be flexible enough to react to changes in fish populations based on scientific advice, and i hope that the negotiating team will be striving for this during their trilogue negotiations.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr nagy on this report because for a very long time the european union has ignored the most basic human right, namely the right to speak one's own language, to transmit one's own culture. poland fulfils all its obligations towards germany, for example, in terms of minority rights, and we ourselves cannot always enjoy all the rights of people who identify with our culture in germany. it's good that we're noticing these problems. but this report has been oppressed by the majority, because the majority in this room can write anything and it is completely incomprehensible why we are putting into this important report such anti-treaty inventions as the mechanism for monitoring democracy - a concept that has nothing to do with the treaties and the principles on which we should cooperate. let us not treat minorities, who have been neglected for so long by the union, as hostages to its ambition for greater power and control of states. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. one of our colleagues, a polish mp, has a dutch name, and the other one is german. in poland, everyone can use the spelling they need and that's how it should be everywhere. we have different alphabets, there are no obstacles to use the latin alphabet, which exists everywhere and we expect this from our citizens, especially since we do not cause any obstacles. but of course, countries that have gained their independence a century ago, such as the baltic states, have every right to get rid of the colonial onslaught that they suffered during half a century of soviet domination. but when it comes to the coexistence of nations, of course, everyone has the right to write as his parents wrote.
in writing. about 8% of eu citizens belong to national or ethnic minorities and nearly 10% speak a regional or minority language. however, there are no common eu standards and definitions on minority rights in the union. this is important because persistent harassment, discrimination and violence deprive citizens of the full enjoyment of their fundamental rights and freedoms and prevent them from participating equally in society. in recent years, we have seen the promotion of xenophobic violence and hate speech by far-right forces. there has been an increase in hate crime and an increase in hate speech based on racism, xenophobia or religious intolerance. given the growing popularity of the far right in a growing number of member states, it is likely that discrimination against minorities will increase. the union's fundamental problem is that it lacks the instruments to enforce respect for minority rights on the member states. this area should therefore be the subject of continuous monitoring and dialogue within parliament, the commission and the council. it is a good idea to establish within the existing commission structures a body responsible for the recognition and protection of minorities in the union. this would at least help to monitor the situation in the member states until common regulations defining minorities and their rights are established.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me start by thanking all shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation on this report outlining the impact of technology and digitisation in developing countries. i welcome the commission strategy on mainstreaming digitisation into eu development policy announced last year, and eu commissioner mariya gabriel’s statement that europe is dedicated to helping africa build a single digital market. we managed to prepare in our committee a very comprehensive text addressing the main opportunities and challenges that digitisation brings to development cooperation and humanitarian action. nelson mandela said that communication technologies have transformed the way people live and the manner in which countries develop. they have the potential to enable us to solve many of the critical problems confronting us. if this potential is to be realised then we must find ways of turning these technologies into a resource for all people, despite the challenges they face within their communities. what does it mean? digital technologies have huge potential in terms of reducing poverty, increasing the competitiveness of the economy and creating employment opportunities. whereas digitisation is rapidly growing globally our partners from developing countries continue to lag behind, losing the opportunity to fully utilise their human capital towards the achievement of the sustainable development goals. according to the 2016 world development report on digital dividends, six billion people lack access to high-speed internet and four billion still have no internet access at all. at a time when digitisation is growing fast, this lack of access is a major challenge to development as it continues to widen gaps and inequalities in the world. at the same time, a huge increase in mobile services is securing across the planet and the numbers of mobile users are now surpassing the numbers of people having access to electricity, sanitation or clean water. digitisation can be a powerful development tool in a number of policy areas such as governance, education, health, gender equality, economic growth and agriculture. in order for it to be effective, bridging the digital divide has to be mainstreamed into every other policy area in accordance with the united nations sustainable development goals. in order to realise these goals, both developing countries and developed countries, as well as all actors – both public and private – need to maximise and join their efforts. in the european consensus on development which is a crucial document on development policy of the eu and its member states, we can find the bold statement that they will continue to support information and communication technologies in developing countries as powerful enablers of inclusive growth and sustainable development. special attention has been given to supporting digital literacy and skills to empower people, especially women, and people in vulnerable and marginalised situations to promote social inclusion and to facilitate the participation in democratic governance and the digital economy. we are all aware of the fact that in this area of developing cooperation, public funding will not be sufficient for a truly transformative digitalisation process. for this very reason, there is a need for public-private cooperation based on development principles. the private sector needs to get involved and play a role through its expertise and innovation know-how. i am convinced that the substantial support from the eu, international actors and both public and private sectors, will allow us to step up the process of bridging the digital divide with a strong commitment to this process from the developing countries.
madam president! yesterday, poland celebrated the symbolic centenary of its independence. the problem is that this anniversary is a bit unfortunate, because for most of that period poland was not really an independent country, and it is no longer an independent country today because of the lisbon treaty. in 1918, we had to ask the germans if we could declare independence, in 2018, we have to ask the germans at what age polish judges can retire, so if we ask ourselves who really lost these two world wars, it is primarily us, as you can see, not the germans. the joke of history is that the ruling party, which now often invokes such independence rhetoric, also in clashes with the eu authorities, in 2003 for eu money took part in hysterical false propaganda in favor of poland's accession to the european union. she signed, her president signed the lisbon treaty, so they sold polish independence for eu silver, and now they are dealing with the consequences themselves.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. today's debate is about the future financial perspective beyond 2020. but it must be noted that for the european parliament this debate is of very serious importance and is not merely a purely financial analysis. the european parliament has been following the european commission's approach to the future of finance very closely, and it was therefore very important for us to see the commission president present his proposal for the future of finance and the famous five scenarios. we expected the commission's proposal to be a political choice of one of these scenarios, especially since the previous perspective, still in force today, was based on the 2020 strategy, so we expected the calculations presented to be the consequence of adopting a specific model of the european union. this has not happened in the commission, the council or parliament, and the debate on the multiannual perspective has therefore become a debate on the model of the european union, and it is of particular importance today. the european parliament presented its preliminary position, following the commission's earlier positions in march 2018, ahead of the european commission's position presented in may. we have studied the european commission's proposal very carefully and we have concluded that the european parliament cannot accept this proposal in terms of the size of the budget, because we believe that the size of the budget will not allow the tasks to be carried out. the european parliament, on the other hand, has clearly agreed with the european commission on several elements proposed in the multiannual financial perspective in its position, which was already presented after the presentation by the european commission. first, the european parliament agreed that new tasks that will require funding after 2020 should be taken into account, i.e. matters relating to defence, border protection, the asylum system. the european parliament agreed on the structure of the future budget, on a new way of allocating policies, but also funds, and therefore took this as a starting point for further discussion. the european parliament also agreed that the challenges facing the european union today mean that we need to increase spending on research, on erasmus exchange activities, on small and medium-sized enterprises, and in this regard the parliament put forward its proposals to increase spending. the european parliament, on the other hand, does not agree to the financing of new tasks by reducing old, so-called traditional policies, even if we take into account the shortcomings of the post-brexit situation. parliament is presenting its proposal in a report, this time showing the exact calculations and the translation into the language of the specific financial solutions of our general position on the size of the budget, i.e. 1.3% of gross national income. this is the starting point of the european parliament. the european parliament is ready to negotiate, it is ready to act quickly, which could bring the work to a conclusion in time.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. multiannual budgets, known as financial frameworks, are a positive feature of the european budget. positive because they allow for the predictable financing of multiannual programmes and investment programmes are multiannual in nature. never - in my experience, too - is business as usual. i remember, on behalf of the european parliament, that in 2004/05 it was a historic enlargement of the european union, but an enlargement with so-called net beneficiaries, without net payers, and therefore it was a problem for the net payers. when i drafted the 2014-2020 budget, it was in the midst of the great recession, when brussels was calling for austerity, which also made it difficult for the european budget to negotiate. today, that condition is brexit, but it's not a very big condition that threatens european budgets, because many capitals, including the biggest net payer, berlin, and the biggest net beneficiary, poland, declare the possibility of increasing their own contribution to the european budget. so this will to have these negotiations concluded before the european elections must be confirmed in the course of the agreements, in the course of the transition from country positioning because it's easy; the country positioning that is happening now is such a discrepancy protocol, and it's an easy thing. the aim is to move on to the much more difficult phase of agreeing on the final draft, i.e. finding a common position among the member states and entering into negotiations with the european parliament. i am responsible, together with gérard deprez, for the revenue side of the european budget. here we have a paradox: this site has been very much criticized for many years, and at the same time it has been very stable for many years, since the end of the 1980s, it is not reformable. the reason is, of course, the british rebate and the unwillingness to give up the british rebate. this entailed various other privileges for the member states, mainly the net payers. at the moment, when we are negotiating without the uk, it seems that we have a certain window of opportunity, that is, we have a certain opportunity to reform the revenue side as well, but it has to be based on two iron rules. firstly, the so-called fiscal sovereignty, which is the responsibility of national parliaments, cannot be infringed. any amendment must be ratified by the national parliaments of all the member states. but there is a second principle: if we introduce some so-called own resources of the european union and there is a whole list of candidates it must involve a reduction in the contribution from gross domestic product, i.e. it cannot mean an increase in the burden on the citizens of the european union. only then can the revenue side be reformed, including, of course, the various other sources of revenue, including penalties, which should be included in the european budget. i think we have a chance this time, and it is clearly stated and will be clearly voted on in the so-called interim report of the european parliament: for us the revenue side and the expenditure side are one package, one thing. we are well aware, of course, that the european parliament has much less room for manoeuvre on the revenue side than on the expenditure side.
madam president! the union budget should reflect the political ambitions of the european union, not limit them. in agreeing to new priorities such as strengthening the protection of the union's external borders, improving security or providing additional support to the countries of the south of the union, it must be emphasised very strongly that this cannot be done at the expense of the countries of central and eastern europe, and therefore the proposal to cut cohesion policy spending by more than 20% for the fourteen countries of this region of the european union and the cap, and in particular its second pillar, is simply unacceptable. the objectives pursued by both policies have not lost their relevance, and both policies have been proven time and again to have a high european added value, as well as to respond in part to new challenges such as climate protection and digitalisation. it should also be recalled that the original idea of the cohesion fund was to charge the countries of the old union with contributions to the fund in connection with their access to the markets of the newly admitted countries, and that these countries have received and continue to receive enormous economic and financial benefits as a result, and therefore these charges should continue to apply. it is also necessary to equalize direct cap payments between the old and new member states. this inequality has lasted for 14 years and will continue for at least two more years until the end of this financial perspective. without this equalisation, it will be possible to consider that the agriculture of the countries of central and eastern europe is discriminated against, and this is prohibited by the treaties.
madam president! in the opinion of the committee on agriculture, we point out, among other things, that the cap plays a key role in achieving the union's key objectives, including food security, by providing consumers with high-quality, safe food at affordable prices and preserving the landscape and protecting the environment, as well as raising and improving the living standards of farmers. what's the deal with the standard of living? agricultural incomes account for only 50% of the average for other occupational groups, and in addition half of them depend on cap support, with some countries having even much lower subsidies. to this must be added the ever-worsening living conditions in rural areas. as a result, the shortage of young farmers is becoming more acute. farmers are faced with a host of new tasks, often unrelated to agriculture, while the cap budget is being systematically reduced. we therefore reiterate our call for the cap budget to be maintained at least at its current level in real terms, given the fundamental role of this policy in ensuring the economic, environmental and social sustainability of european agriculture and the further development of rural areas and agriculture.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have only one point to make on behalf of the itre committee, but i think it is important. namely, we want to get broad support for our climate package, but there are regions in the european union whose citizens will pay particularly heavily for our energy transition. these are the 41 regions that have been and are very dependent on coal, and we need to show the people of these regions that the european union is able to help them in their difficult situation. that's tens of millions of people in 12 different european countries, such as romania, slovakia, germany, spain. itre voted by a large majority for the transformation programme, and we must support it in our vote in plenary, as did the committee on budgets. i also wanted to ask the commissioner (thank you for your support) to prepare a proposal ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. i'm not going to let you do this. the debate we have had clearly shows that the discussion on the mff, on the multiannual financial perspective, is not really a conversation between accountants. this is a conversation about the different policies of the european union, and this conversation will have its continuation in the discussions on legislative texts. this shows that even if there are differences of opinion within parliament, we believe that the mff is a very important direction for action in the months and years to come. secondly, this discussion has also shown that we must be interested not only in what the european union is about, but also in what is happening in the european union. what is important to us is what is happening in the member states at the moment and what money is being spent on individual policies within the member states, as the commissioner has said. that's got to go. you have to add what the member states spend, plus what's in the european union budget. you can't separate that. the third point - and i am addressing it to the council - is the fundamental question which is, also after this debate, whether the budget should reflect a certain political line or whether the political line should reflect the budget. what are we discussing? do we discuss what we want to achieve and how much it will cost, or do we discuss how much we give and what we can do with it? i think that this debate has made it very clear that parliament believes that the budget should reflect political ambition. and lastly, we have also included in our proposal some new elements, such as money for ngos to defend european values. the value program is one of the things that needs to be developed. there are more of these elements, and parliament will defend them.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the financial perspective is the vision of the european union, our common future, in numbers. the agreement is the most serious test of the political will to be together, because political declarations or so-called sonntagsreden are not enough. we need to reach a consensus and explain it to the taxpayers. whatever happens on the council side - and here progress is not particularly encouraging - it is good that parliament is taking a stand. i hope it's a large majority. it is good that it links the revenue side and the expenditure side of the european budget. for the first time since the 1980s, there is a real chance of reforming the revenue side of the budget, which has been fiercely criticised but also fiercely defended in recent years. it was unthinkable in the days of prime minister cameron, so let's take this opportunity.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i congratulate the rapporteurs, and especially mr wentz. i have mixed feelings about this. the first is joy, because it's a very good report. second, it's a shame, because mr. wenta has been elected president of kielc, so he's probably going to leave us. i wish mr. bogdan went all the best for his new position.
mr. chairman, please! i think it's very important to promote energy efficiency. it is clear that by using energy efficiently and responsibly, we contribute to many goals. we're reducing its environmental impact, and we're preventing energy poverty. however, it is important that we strive for energy efficiency at all stages of the energy flow, and it is wrong to understand energy efficiency improvements only as reductions in energy use. i think that is the wrong approach and that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
mr. chairman, please! one of the main pillars of the energy union is decarbonisation. the focus on decarbonisation threatens to permanently lose industrial competitiveness and to have a huge social cost, especially for economies with a high share of coal in their energy mix, such as poland. decarbonisation is taking precedence over energy solidarity and just transition. it's hitting mining regions like silesia hard. i am a pole, elected by poles to serve poland well, and therefore i cannot vote for such a report.
mr. chairman, please! i see a lot of positive aspects in the regulation on the promotion of renewable energy sources. the rules on biomass, biofuels and the integration of res into district heating have been designed in a very balanced way and i consider them to be a good example of a compromise between what is desirable and what is possible. it is important that the integration of res into energy systems is gradual and respects the competences of the states and the investments made to date. my concern is that the overall objective is too high. the example of germany shows that a massive shift towards renewable energy leads to very high costs. this model is not worth replicating, which is why i could not support this report, but i abstained because of the good detailed solutions i mentioned earlier.
mr. chairman, please! our group of european conservatives and reformists did not support this resolution because many of us, including myself, believe that many of the issues raised in it are not the responsibility of the european union but of the member states, in this case romania. this applies both to the reform of the judiciary, which is referred to in point 2, and to the organisation of the media, which is referred to in point 7. the resolution is largely ideological, as is clear from preamble m, where the authors lament the discrimination against sexual minorities in romania, citing the review of the situation by the european branch of the international lesbian and gay association. that is why i and many of my colleagues voted against this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! unity in diversity is the strength of the community, it is the strength of the european union. we've had 60 years of building this unity in diversity, and we've had some great, great successes in that, but somewhere on the horizon, there are voices of the storm. we see growing tensions in the member states, we see the rise of nationalist, chauvinist movements. all of this makes us even more inclined to bend over backwards to the norms that are about protecting those who are weaker, those who are in the minority. without going into the documentary now because time is short, i want to say that there is one thing that i miss there, and that is a lot of emphasis on raising social awareness and education. it is not only by laws, not only by directives, not only by paragraphs, ba!, not even by sanctions, by penalties that we can bring about the state we want, but above all by education and raising public awareness.
mr. chairman, please! it could be said that never before has mankind had such a great opportunity to spread democracy and prosperity. this is achieved by maintaining peace in the world, but also by international cooperation. and then there's a third element, and this is something that we haven't really looked at in this context before, and that is the development of technology, especially the development of digital technology. this is an absolute breakthrough in the dissemination of what we're talking about, which is prosperity and universal interaction of people all over the world. the development of technology, especially digital technology, is also an instrument that serves not only entire countries or entire societies, but can also serve individuals. that's why our priority today should be to reduce digital exclusion. it is a way of achieving goals that are very important to us, to europeans.
i hereby close the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to madam chancellor that it is a privilege for us to have her here. madam chancellor, you are certainly one of those politicians who has had a decisive influence on what has been going on in europe, not only as a leader of a very important nation, but also as a remarkable personality. but, precisely because of your exceptional status i’m taking the liberty of sharing with you some of the concerns that i have about the european union. you are a very powerful person. you make the basic decisions in europe. you anoint people for top positions within the eu. even here in the european parliament, when you want to do something that your government does not like – like stopping nord stream or curbing jugendamt – there are always innumerable obstacles popping up and, in the end it turns out to be extremely difficult to do anything about it. even if we can do something about it, then it is ignored by your government because your government can afford to ignore it. this power spills over. when i talk to some of my german colleagues here, i usually hear them sermonising. that’s very common here in this chamber. i would say i hear them pontificating from the position of heavyweight moral champions, which they consider themselves to be. all this is true but, in real terms, i think your political family is playing second fiddle in european politics. interesting as your speech was, i cannot resist the feeling that 95% of what you said could have been said by martin schulz, a politician now largely forgotten, but he was once a big man here. he was pushing this chamber to left, being seconded by the european people’s party. the truth is, madam chancellor, that the european union has been hijacked by the left, which has imposed on it its ideology, its political agenda and even its language. to personalise it somewhat, we have just heard mr bullmann of the socialists and mr weber of the ppe group. if you cut out two or three sentences from what mr bullmann said, they could have exchanged speeches and nobody would have seen the difference. i can say more. i can imagine mr bullmann being the chairman of the epp and mr weber being the chairman of the socialists, and it wouldn’t make the slightest difference either. i would say more: i can imagine mr verhofstadt taking both positions. (laughter)it wouldn’t make a difference. perhaps the only difference would be that there would be more insults flying around. so much for diversity. the immigration crisis, which cost you so dearly, madam chancellor, is just the tip of the iceberg. i will not be telling you about the tradition of german christian democracy – you know more about it than i do – but what happened to it? where has it evaporated to? the portrait of konrad adenauer in your office is not enough. where is your christian democratic vision of what europe should be like? why is it that you and your political family passively observe while the eu has been turning into a political bulldozer of social engineering? this creeping centralisation, these so—called harmonisations through the back door, and the more and more obscure power structure. the bigger the institution you make, the more power structures become obscure. that is an elementary truth about politics. everybody knows about it. the abysmal arrogance of the eu officials, the awful ideology oozing from almost every document written in a horrible newspeak, new strange institutions, chronic violation of the treaties, all this supposedly leading us to a radiant future of europe. but this radiant future is a left-wing fantasy, and i do not want to live in a left-wing fantasy. i am sure, madam chancellor, that you do not want to live there either even if it is ruled by heavyweight moral champions.
mr president, i would like to address the chancellor. madam chancellor, thank you for being with us and thank you for your leadership. we appreciate very much your efforts to bring a stronger europe. in your speech, you focused on the need to have a common foreign policy here in europe, and i very much share your views. in this context, i would like to ask you: what should we do, and how should our policy be shaped against russia? we still have a situation where people are dying in eastern ukraine. we are now in the fifth year of negotiating with russia to implement the so-called ‘minsk agreements’. what is the recipe for making russia more accommodative and more willing to take into account our expectations? what is your recipe to confront a more and more aggressive russia here in europe, and simply bring peace to ukraine?
mr. chairman, please! i would point out that we have sent a recommendation to moldova's government to disobey the law and to recognize the results of the mayoral election of chisinau, despite the valid ruling of the supreme court. if, dear moldovans, any of you are watching this and are satisfied with the rule of law, which recommends breaking the law, then come to us, you will get more of it. i asked mrs. mogherini about this unfortunate decision, and she told me that we had called the government to do it, and let the government do it, and so what, we won't worry about any law, rule of law. if you love the rule of law and the law and want it to be well-established, you might want to reconsider whether moldova is on the right track. let them watch the votes in our parliament and their mps - future meps - let them exercise their reflexes for voting today, because here reflexes are a basic requirement for mps.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it is an important debate today, because today we can once again tell the citizens of georgia and moldova that they are europeans, that their european path, their european choice, is important to us. that's what they need to know. i would be careful not to bias this debate. i mean, every one of our circles, of our political families has friendly parties in moldova, and especially in georgia. but let's not say that if the party that works with us is in opposition, then we resent the government of that country. i warn against this because i think it is unfair to the citizens of, for example, georgia, moldova or other countries. i think we have to support very strongly and say clearly - because it is, ladies and gentlemen - that this is a political match between east and west. and we must support those who are on the western side, the bright side of power.
mr. chairman, please! we have two very different assessments of countries today, one common debate and two different assessments. different assessments of european policy supporting these countries, support often consistent but sometimes without any consequences. and it's worth noting these differences, the most important differences. georgia de facto can be seen as an element of positive policy, positive support in three elements. the first is the implementation of the association agreement, the second is the three-year roadmap, as positively assessed by the venice commission, but also the effective implementation of the visa-free regime. in the case of moldova, we cannot see any positive element in this long-term process of supporting that country. i note this with sadness, as a final observation, but also to reinforce commissioner hahn's decision as to the conclusions.
in writing. the report we are debating today concerns an agreement with a country that is one of three that has ratified and is implementing an association agreement with the european union, the most advanced type of partnership we have to offer besides membership. the report paints a rather pessimistic picture of the political situation in moldova, but we must remember that the current authorities have taken a strong pro-european course and deserve our support, if only for that reason. perhaps we should look more closely at the moldovan scene and reach out to new political parties, stripped of the ballast of the old communist system, that could lead to a real qualitative change in moldovan politics, fully respecting the principles of a democratic state and the principles of a free market economy while maintaining social sensitivity to the needs of people from the poorest strata of society. one thing is certain. turning our backs on moldova and punishing it for lack of progress will only accomplish one thing: push the country towards russia. so we should be prudent in rewarding positive change, perhaps by finding new partners for dialogue, but showing the current authorities that they will gain much more in the long run by being in the eu family and perhaps in nato by adhering to democratic standards. sacrificing these values for short-term political gain is certainly not going to pay off in the long run.
mr. chairman, please! the key to today's debate is article 2. this is an article that lists the minimum criteria that must be met to be allowed to trade in weapons, to sell weapons. if we look at these criteria, it is not possible to meet them under the current circumstances. it's not impossible because someone doesn't want to, it's just that the criteria are so constructed that they're difficult to enforce. respect for the human rights of the citizens of the destination country is rare. secondly, an assessment of the internal situation of the country of destination in terms of the risk of conflict. most of the time, this assessment is wrong. maintaining regional peace, stability and security. it would be a miracle if this really happened. but also the behavior of the buyer country towards the international community. most of these situations are evaluated critically. i think this report is very, very necessary, transparency is essential, but naivety goes with it all the time.
in writing. it is worth noting that the eu is a major arms exporter. over the past five years, the european union has exported arms to the value of 27% of global exports, making it the second largest arms supplier after the united states (34%). unfortunately, there are many signs that these weapons are also being used in countries that are subject to export bans, such as yemen. there are also cases of eu-made weapons and ammunition being found on the hands of daesh fighters in syria and iraq. this information indicates that the current european regulations on arms exports are not effectively enforced. of course, the primary responsibility for arms export control lies with the countries of origin of the exporters. i also believe that the eu could contribute to more effective control of arms exports. this would require, in particular, an increase in the competences and staffing of the european external action service, which would be responsible for the analysis of export authorisations and enforcement in the member states. the fundamental problem is not weakness of the legislation but circumvention of the existing arrangements.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the report under discussion is aimed at strengthening the competence of national supervisory authorities in terms of competition in the single market, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, on a very good report. among the important compromises that have been made in this report, i would like to highlight three. first, to establish a legal framework for the prosecution of institutions or companies that infringe competition, which makes it possible to shorten the proceedings and to increase the effectiveness of the prosecution of these illegal practices. second, it is intended to provide for the possibility of waiving the obligation to impose penalties where the institutions or undertakings concerned disclose the existence of a price or other conspiracy to distort competition. these leniency procedures, as we call them, are of great importance for more effective competition enforcement. thirdly, we impose a limit on the financial penalties to be applied to companies that infringe competition, and i think that this proposal that they should be equal to at least 10% of the value of the annual turnover is correct. in conclusion, however, i would like to say that we have a lot of work ahead of us in terms of competition in the single market, particularly in the services sector. we have a lot to do there and i would like to ask the commission and also our colleagues to pay more attention to competition in the services market as well.
mr. chairman, please! it is a technical directive in theory, but it is very important from the point of view of consumers. i would add that i am a realist and do not believe that it is possible to find a common denominator for services and the same price on the european market, but that does not mean that this should not be sought. if we are slowly approaching similar composition, similar information, and protection of certain basic consumer interests in goods, we still have a problem with that in services. i am very pleased that the directive itself has taken into account the sovereignty of the national supervisory authorities, but also has supplemented the tools they use and that europe uses to make them in short more effective.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. cryptocurrencies are a type of private money issued by market participants, and this is natural because they offer some significant advantages. first, the speed of the transaction flow, and second, the entire history of the transactions that have been made, which is recorded in a very innovative blockchain technology. these are certainly attractive cases, and they also offer anonymity, which is more controversial, because anonymity actually also allows you to hide the source of the funds and to make various illegal transactions. but i want to say here, contrary to what my honorable predecessor was trying to say, that it's not enough for virtual currencies to become money. money, as economics teaches, is a public good because it should provide certain essential features, such as, above all, stability and state guarantees. virtual currencies will never have these characteristics, they can actually only fulfill one single function of money, namely they can be a store of value. but in order for that to happen, they have to become financial instruments, and on this point i of course agree with the commissioner and the previous speakers that regulation is needed in the public interest, in the interest of investors. it can't be that we have a sort of as congressman ferber said wild west in this regard. i'm not against virtual currencies, but i'm warning you: they'll never be money as long as governments don't tax it, and they won't.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the disregard for cryptocurrencies or, as the commissioner rightly uses this category of crypto-assets, is a serious mistake, and it's a double mistake. because on the one hand it is an underestimation of the development of technology and, consequently, of the consequences of the development of these technologies, and on the other hand, it is an underestimation of very serious risks. in the very discussion, which was quite brief, there were at least five such serious comments, critical comments, and expectations as well. it's a liability issue. there's no liability with crypto assets. beneficiaries who may lose their income. the third element is operations that are not transparent. very often, cryptocurrencies or crypto-assets are used to finance suspicious transactions. but also a risk assessment, which in my judgment is still underestimated.
madam president! i would first of all like to congratulate mr ansip, the vice-president, the whole of the european commission and, above all, my colleagues in the european parliament who negotiated what we are going to vote on today. these are really great results. remember, we are now beyond the digital single market. it's what we dreamed of, but it's really what we've almost achieved. we have to think about digital union, that's our job for the next five years. the best possible connectivity, 5g, consumer protection, international facilitation, and also start-ups, support for companies. let's remember this is our economy, our future. without that, we're not gonna be competitive. we cannot achieve our climate and energy goals without these solutions. it is good that we take geographical location into account, because countries bordering other european countries have difficulties with the radio spectrum, and so i am glad that this solution was also in our decisions.
madam president! we're talking about a solution that is critical to the digital revolution. i thank the commission, but mainly pilar del castillo and the rapporteurs for their great work. the code gives us, the users, new rights: access to the internet as a universal service regardless of location and income, a new cap on international call rates (it will be cheaper), access to a nationwide alert system. above all, the code lays the foundations for ultra-fast 5g, information in milliseconds and a future gigabit society with services that will change the quality of life for all of us, including in rural areas. it shall support more efficient distribution of spectrum across the union and investment by increasing legal predictability and guarantees of access to spectrum for operators. it's about competitive quality of service, not warrants. it encourages co-investment. it would be desirable to introduce this quickly and in practice, and to improve the conditions for investment and to level it out between countries.
madam president! a few comments on this report. first of all, there is no such thing as zero-emission vehicles. it's the use of false terminology that leads to false conclusions. unless you guys invented perpetual motion in the meantime, and i missed something, or you've already declared that perpetual motion is going to be invented by 2030, i wouldn't be surprised. maybe it's in some new amendment. there's no such thing as zero-emission vehicles, they just don't emit where they're driving, they emit where the electricity is generated to power them. so let's not tell stories. secondly, if we want to make a fair effort to improve the environment, we should, instead of using the casuistry that for these vehicles it will be 15%, but if they are buses, it is not, well, unless they are articulated, then again some other percentage. you can't put a case like that in the law. there is a very simple solution: the environmental tax should be included in the fuel the more fuel someone uses, the more they pay this environmental tax. and it's the manufacturer's job to burn as little fuel as possible. that's all i got.
madam president! i believe that taking care of the environment and the climate and creating incentives for the production and use of low and zero-emission vehicles is our common task. i also believe that environmental objectives can be reconciled with the pursuit of jobs and economic growth. therefore, i believe that a 35% reduction in emissions allows for such synergies to be maintained. the most effective solutions are those that are widely accepted by both consumers and producers. in the case of heavy goods vehicles, fuel efficiency is of paramount importance, as fuel is the biggest fixed cost of transport companies. so it is in their interest to buy vehicles that use as little fuel as possible. fuel efficiency is also linked to reducing emissions, so we should aim to make and use as low-emission vehicles as possible. it would be better if they were zero-emission vehicles. but we cannot ask producers and consumers to implement things that are impossible. although it is technically possible to design, for example, a tractor with an electric powered saddle, the barriers are obviously its range, the charging speed, the mass of the vehicle. this barrier is easier to overcome on short distances, for example in the case of cars and buses, but difficult to overcome in the case of traction for heavy vehicles. i came across this problem in the work on the directive on the promotion of clean vehicles, for which we adopted the negotiating mandate at the last session and for which i was rapporteur. there we also adopted other targets for buses and other, lower targets for trucks. i think that in the case of trucks, we should focus on improving fuel efficiency and transition technologies such as natural gas, and in particular biomethane, which as a renewable fuel can have a big impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. the regulation on co2 emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles is part of the european union's integrated approach to decarbonising the transport sector. the provisions contained in it will undoubtedly pose a major problem in the long run, both for vehicle manufacturers and for fuel dealers. under the current methodology, the co2 emission value of a vehicle is assigned to it on the basis of the measured amount of co2 emitted from the vehicle's exhaust pipe. however, this does not include the total co2 emissions from the previous processing of crude oil into fuels, as primary energy (refineries) or during the production of renewable fuels, including biogas. this is a mistake. i think that the focus should be on taking into account the reduction in emissions that comes from the use of biofuels and alternative fuels. to this end, the european commission should develop a new methodology for an objective way of calculating total emissions. the new methodology for advanced and renewable liquid fuels, including gaseous fuels, while avoiding double counting, will allow for further substantial co2 reductions. it will also allow companies specialising in the production of heavy-duty vehicles to develop bold new, promising and competitive design solutions.
mr. chairman, please! report to report is not equal. the multiannual financial framework is a long work, extremely important, with a multiannual, six-year perspective. i would like to take this opportunity to thank janusz lewandowski and jan olbricht, because they have done a fantastic job, but in particular for making it possible for the erasmus+ programme to finally be doubled and ultimately to be tripled in the final of this perspective. this is a very important program. i also think that from the point of view of the committee on culture and education it is very important to extend the two programmes: creative europe and europe for citizens. we have the lowest efficiency there at 16x19% - it must be worrying, but for the projects themselves, for their support, thank you very much!
mr. chairman, please! this is the european parliament's fifth approach to the illegal arms trade and de facto its fifth failure. maybe not so complete, not so disruptive, but unfortunately the efficiency of this project -- the project of transparency of certain limitations, of building standards, we have to admit, ends in failure. i abstained on this resolution, on this report, primarily because i am opposed to the transport, export and trade of arms in areas of conflict and major humanitarian problems. on the other hand, i have always pointed out that the european institutions and the member states of the european union are unfortunately ineffective in this area.
mr. chairman, please! this is another resolution of this parliament which calls into question the independence of the member states. there is no compelling reason for the european union to intervene in this area. this is not the union we signed up for, this is not the union we agreed to, and now the union is trying to take away the competence of the member states from everything. the arms trade is regulated in detail by the laws of all the member states. there is no need to add anything to it, and if different countries interpret the eight criteria of the common position differently, they have the right to do so. why would one country tell another that the other one misinterpreted these eight criteria? and i can already tell which countries are going to tell which countries they're wrong. as always, we'll be the ones who are wrong.
mr. chairman, please! the report on co2 standards for trucks is a prime example of how a good intention, a good report, a good proposal can be spoiled by voting. i did not support this report, primarily because it is ultimately completely unrealistic, impossible for many countries to accept and extremely costly to implement. i believe that in such undertakings the european parliament should nevertheless exercise extreme caution in taking account of geographical and industrial conditions and endeavour to ensure that the proposals it puts forward are adequate and feasible. unfortunately, as a result of this vote, we have, in my opinion, gone far too far into an area that is completely unrealistic, extremely expensive and impossible to achieve.
mr president, i abstained on this report after much deliberation. i want to say in advance that i am a great supporter of the values of democracy, the rule of law, the principles on which european civilization is founded. i must admit, however, that the report, as written and conceived, does not, in my view, address this problem. i think it creates a certain principle of collective guilt and mechanisms such as individual member states submitting a report every year on the human rights situation in their country and that report being evaluated probably by the european commission, rather create and reinforce anti-european sentiments in some member states than contribute effectively to the protection of these european values. so i am in favour of protecting the rule of law, human rights, for the european union to intervene against states where there is a clear violation of these values, but unfortunately this report does not offer a solution that could bring about this.
mr. chairman, please! democracy is the control of the people over the government, not the activation of the mechanisms of control over the people, over their democratic decisions, over their laws, over the institutions that they create. today's vote is an act of usurpation of parliament's treaty position, because let us always remember that while we represent the majority of the majority of the states, we are only one of the authorities established by the treaties by our states. anyone who challenges this, who gives parliament more power, challenges the european treaties. anyone who attacks the countries of europe is attacking the union that those countries have created, because the european union is the union of our countries, not an ideology that will be supported by the majority of the european parliament. today's act is a grave threat not only to democracy but to the very cooperation of the peoples of europe.
mr. chairman, please! democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the foundations of the european union, the soul of europeans. and that's how we're seen all over the world, on every continent. the european union is a model for other nations and other countries to follow in creating democracy and prosperity for its citizens. unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen a crisis in respect for these great, wonderful values of civilization in some member states. nationalist, authoritarian, anti-democratic movements are growing in strength, destroying the rule of law and the rule of law. the european union does not have the effective and real tools to counter these movements, and that is why, unlike my colleague the previous speaker, i am in favour of adopting this mechanism. it is necessary to protect european citizens from authoritarian governments.
mr. chairman, please! the whole carrot and stick policy in the european union is that the carrot is getting smaller and the stick is getting thicker. we have already voted today for sanctions on arms exports, and now we are voting in an orderly fashion on all countries that will not listen to germany's leading role in this endeavour. this is a clear violation of the treaties and the philosophy on which the european union was supposed to be based. it's a tool to discipline countries that don't listen. and what will be considered as the absence of the rule of law or the rule of law, we already know: it will be what the germans consider to be the absence of the rule of law. it is not, for example, that members are being asked to give their views in this parliament, or that the vote on the application of article 7 to hungary breaches the principle of counting votes, or that president juncker unlawfully appoints a secretary-general, but that the rule of law and the rule of law will be violated if the union is not governed by the union.
mr president, i was happy to support this report. for me, as a member of parliament from the czech republic, a country which unfortunately experienced soviet occupation during the communist era, it is positive to read that the former soviet country of georgia is now an active partner of the european union, that it is seeking to join the european union and that it is implementing reforms which are part of today's partnership, today's relationship. it is very positive that georgia is today the main leader in cooperation between the european union and the region in this area, and i am very pleased that we have adopted this report, and i hope that this report will further strengthen the will of the georgian government to develop a strategy for membership of the european union and also strengthen the will of the georgian people to become a member of the european union.
mr. chairman, this is unfortunately a different case than the case we talked about, georgia. this time it is the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and moldova. unfortunately, this report is, and i think it is unfortunately right, very critical of moldova. in short, moldova is not moving closer to the european union with its internal political developments, the criteria we have for our members and partners, such as building the rule of law, independent elections, functioning justice and so on, unfortunately this country does not meet. the report is very critical of what is the main problem: the state of the judiciary, the strange electoral reform, the suppression of independent media. i agree with the part that says that if the situation does not improve, we should consider reducing macro-financial assistance to this country.
mr. chairman, please! while i am in favour of granting humanitarian visas in justified cases, i voted against a report in which the regulations are based on a dubious legal basis. the introduction of the visa-only entry procedure for the purpose of applying in a member state can cause a number of problems and was intended to ensure legal and safe routes of procedure to avoid death at sea and smuggling. there is also a need to provide for additional rules on the treatment of persons who are allowed to enter a country but who are denied protection. there is also a legitimate concern that the embassies will be overburdened as migrants move across the european union. in addition, the extremely complex visa procedure with a maximum duration of two weeks will be difficult to implement. the idea of allowing remote visa applications and the mechanism of allowing external service providers is equally unfavourable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank commissioner jourová for naming a series of elections we face in the years to come, because not only european elections, but every election which happens in each and every eu member state requires a very resilient environment – resilient to external hostile malicious interference as well as, of course, to private interests. there is a role naturally of governments, legislators, national legislators as well as social media companies and civil society to build this resilience, to raise this awareness. of course, there is a huge role for the eu and, in particular in the case of cybersecurity, for cooperation between the eu and nato to tackle these challenges and these threats. i would like to mention also the importance of transatlantic cooperation. lessons learned from interference elsewhere in both the united states and other parts of the world enable cooperation over political divisions in tackling these problems because, rightly, we say that hostile violation of universal suffrage is a violation of fundamental human rights, and the role of politicians, of public actors, is to raise awareness. therefore, we stress the importance of quality journalism. i would like to tackle one thing: the electoral process is still a dominant role and competence of eu member states. also, i would like to say that external actors like russia have tailor—made these attacks, and therefore we have to be rather cautious in imposing common measures to tackle this, although i stress that we have to cooperate and cooperate closely.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i agree with a lot of things that my colleagues have said. however, i would like to point out that the influence of external, anti-eu centres spreading disinformation before the elections in our countries, before the european elections, is not limited to anonymous activities such as blogging or twitter accounts by fictitious characters who are in fact part of a political project. our problem is not just trolls and bots. the external influences that spread disinformation are very often well-known public figures. i think it is particularly dangerous when it is done by former politicians of nation states or high-ranking eu officials. by hiring themselves as advisers to various companies, they use their connections, their dependencies, their knowledge of the political kitchen to serve the interests of forces unfavourable to the union and to european states. gerhard schroeder is far more dangerous than any troll. if my colleagues in the socialist parties are so strongly condemning this kind of practice - it seems that he is still an spd politician - then i think that should change. that is why i think that urgent action should be taken to strengthen the policy against revolving doors, and moreover we should publish a blacklist of this kind of politicians who work with foreign states, with our enemies, with our strategic enemies, who work against the union within the union, because they represent a real and real danger, much greater than what we are talking about.
mr. chairman, please! our debate is of a special nature: it is motivated by the fear of the influence of foreign actors on the forthcoming election campaign for the european parliament. in this context, the funding of european parties and foundations is mentioned. there are specific names. a year ago, in this room, nigel farage pointed to one of them: george soros, the american financier who is outside influencing the policies of the european union. he gave specific details of several dozen meetings between the billionaire and the european commission. franz timmermans himself said earlier this year that he's been working with soros for 20 years. accusations of meddling by the american billionaire in the internal affairs of the eu member countries were voiced by representatives of slovakia, romania, italy, spain, the united kingdom, and hungary. what guarantees do we have that he will not interfere, through his many foundations, in the forthcoming european elections in many countries, including my own country, poland? and what are we going to do about it?
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw your attention to the fact that local government elections are an extremely sensitive area. they are not only a test for democracy, but also for the proper functioning of many institutions in individual countries, including the european institutions. so far, we have mostly been concerned (and worried) about those elements that are related to democratic rights, transparency, and also the business integrity of such elections, which is, first of all, the financial transparency of the committees themselves. today we have another subject, a very sensitive one, which we have all been paying attention to for several years now, and i emphasize: for several years now, with virtually no effect. i want to point out that fake news is an industry. this is a serious industry that probably benefits countries as well as large business organizations. elections are a serious business and financial interest for this industry, and one that must be emphasized, with unimaginable consequences. and i bring this up because we need to know that fake news, outside interference, fake messages, fake communication, fake social media are a big, very often a serious element of security and security threats. i would also like to point out that this term of office of the european parliament began with the first report on false information, false reports, interference in european political life and economic life. but unfortunately, we're in the same place we were four years ago.
mr president, it is difficult to bring any new ideas to the table on such a vital subject at the end of this debate. i would just like to emphasise and reiterate that i am convinced that in the forthcoming european elections russia will make a great effort to influence the course of the electoral campaigns in the individual member states, and especially in countries which, from the point of view of the russian foreign policy doctrine, belong to the so-called 'close neighbourhood'. that is, in countries that unfortunately fell under the influence of the soviet union during the communist era. these are countries where russia simply wants to exert its political and economic influence and does not wish to strengthen the pro-european part of society. we must take this into account, and we must create an awareness campaign against this, both at the level of the nation states and at the level of the european union. i am here as the mep for the czech republic, and we have witnessed how, even in the last election, the presidential election that took place a few months ago in the czech republic, in short, the pro-european presidential candidate faced a big media attack, faced fake news that was spread against him in the hundreds of thousands of emails that were sent, and where the issues that are relevant to the european agenda were distorted. topics such as the issue of migration have been distorted. we have to expect that the issue of migration will be exploited by the enemies of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is a vitally important subject that we’re debating this afternoon. foreign, domestic, sometimes criminal, actors have, without doubt, sought to break the rules, sought to interfere in our democratic processes and raised questions about our democratic institutions. make no mistake: that does represent a security challenge. we, from the commission side, agree with those of you who say that we need to take action on a number of fronts: we need to build our cybersecurity and our resilience against cyberattacks, we need to tackle cyber manipulation through dis— and misinformation, and we need to tackle the misuse of mined personal data. we also agree that we need to call out examples of interference. i want to join those of you who have praised the excellent work carried out by the eu’s east stratcom task force, which, over the last couple of years, has now gathered more than 4 000 cases of pro-kremlin disinformation, contradicting publicly available facts, repeated in a number of languages and on a number of occasions. these activities basically reflect a public russian military doctrine which openly advertises the use of false data and destabilising propaganda as legitimate tools. as a number of you have also observed, unfortunately it is not only russia. others are going down this route as well, which is why we also need to tackle the underlying vulnerabilities. we need to build our resilience through longer term actions – as many of you have said – on education, independent media and building critical awareness, but also through some shorter-term, more immediate actions, not least with the upcoming european parliamentary elections in mind. so we are pushing for early agreement on the cybersecurity act, the package of measures that we have proposed to try and build our cybersecurity and resilience. i note that in the us congress they’ve just acted to create a us cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency. i think it is high time we followed that example. we’re also acting to tackle cyber criminality. we will continue to support europol, who have in ec3 an internationally recognised centre of excellence in tackling cyber criminality. but, more generally, we need to work for transparency, traceability and the accountability of cyber criminals, which is why it is so important that we make progress on e—evidence. without fast and effective access to electronic evidence, it is very hard to hold cyber criminals to account. as well as those steps, we need to tackle cyber manipulation and on that, building on the measures we presented last april in our communication on tackling online disinformation, we have – as has been mentioned – now agreed, in what is actually internationally a first, a code of practice on disinformation with the big social media platforms, the big news platforms. we’ve asked those platforms to restrict targeting options for political advertising, to ensure transparency around sponsored content, to step up their efforts to identify and delete fake accounts, and to establish clear rules around bots. there should also be greater clarity around algorithms – as has been mentioned in this debate – and information on how they prioritise the content that that we see. this needs to be combined with tools enabling users more easily to discover content and access new sources representing alternative points of view, as well as to report disinformation. i think this code is a good starting point, but we need to go further. we need to press the platforms now to deliver granular, measurable objectives that we can hold them to account against. we will do that work, as a number of you have asked, as we prepare the action plan for early december. we still hope that we can see sufficient progress by working quickly together on a voluntary basis, but we’ve been clear that we reserve the right to consider our options again if we don’t see the progress that we need. as my colleague, commissioner jourová, mentioned earlier, in september president juncker presented a set of measures specifically on election security, asking member states to set up a national election cooperation network of all the relevant authorities. we have brought them together – representatives from each of the member states, those responsible for running elections, those responsible for cybersecurity, and those responsible for data protection – and we will build an effective european—level network so that those experts can share best practice and support each other, and we can build our collective resilience. from the commission side, we very much welcome your strong engagement on these issues. as we’ve said before in these debates, raising awareness is the first line of defence, but, in itself, it is not enough. we need to go further. we need to maximise our preparedness ahead of the series of elections that are coming up. we are committed to working with you, with member states and with the private sector better to secure the foundations of our democracy: free speech, freedom of expression, and indeed the right of all of those who have spoken today, including those who attacked the commission.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it’s quite difficult at the end of the debate to say something new in this debate, because i would like to say that this very useful debate showed and demonstrated a high degree of convergence between the european parliament’s and the council’s and also the commissioner’s view on the importance of eu resilience against any influence of foreign actors in the upcoming ep election campaign – and i would like to emphasise this – no matter from which country it is evolving. i fully second what commissioner king said: we have a lot to do in a lot of different areas and regarding different topics. it is clear that it is still work in progress, and i’m looking forward to further results in the short— and the medium—term. let me assure you of our firm commitment to continuing the work that i outlined already at the beginning of our debate and of our readiness to adopt and effectively implement concrete measures to protect the internet and the cyberspace from criminal misuse. it is clear that these objectives cannot be met without common efforts to ensure a free, open, safe and secure cyberspace and in close cooperation with other public and private stakeholders. this work is actively supported by the contractual public—private partnership on cybersecurity between the european commission and the european cyber security organisation. but i doubt that we will be able to complete this work at any time. our work in the cyber domain is now far away from being completed, and against a background of the developing technology, we have to work a lot also in the future – i’m convinced of that. we need to join forces – and also that was mentioned by the commissioner – to raise the awareness of all stakeholders, to encourage action, and to improve the capacities and capabilities of the eu and its member states to tackle the ever—growing sophistication of cyber—attacks and evolving cyber—threats around the world. we need to make good use of all the eu initiatives directed at increasing cyber resilience and invest in the implementation of all recently announced measures. we also need to strengthen the existing framework, based on current experience, to provide more comprehensive response to the constantly evolving challenges which rigorously protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr bogusław liberadzki on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on rail passengers' rights and obligations (recast) (com (2017) 0548 - c8-0324/2017 - 2017/0237 (cod)) (a8-0340/2018).
the rapporteur. - mr. president of the republic of krasnodar! i'm not going to let you go. ladies and gentlemen! i should like to begin by saying that this is a very important day in our debate on the development of consumer rights, specifically for rail passengers in europe. that's over four billion people who travel by rail each year. it also concerns the millions of workers employed in rail transport and is therefore a complex and crucial undertaking on a very large scale. i would like to start by thanking my co-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, especially mr denis de jong, who, on behalf of the imco committee, contributed to the preparation of the report. i would like to emphasise the commission's high level of cooperation and to thank commissioner bulc personally. i will start with what parliament can achieve by voting tomorrow. the first and foremost issue in terms of passenger rights is compensation for train delays. we propose to increase the compensation amounts to 100% for delays of more than 121 minutes. i realize this won't be easy. a possible alternative would be to compensate 100% for delays of more than 180 minutes. the second issue, which is particularly important and worthy of note, is the increase in the availability of through-tickets for passengers who will miss connections because the tickets were intended for a change of seat. they will be entitled to a seat on the next train at no extra cost. another issue is accessibility for travellers with reduced mobility: the group of people we want to enable to access mobility is very large and growing. we are, of course, proposing that there be no prenotification at the highest category stations that handle at least 10,000 passengers a day, followed by three hours of notice at the lower category stations and twelve hours of notice at the lower category stations. we're also opening a bicycle railway. we propose that up to eight bicycles can be transported on the train. in time, this rule will apply to every train. we also want to extend the scope of the regulation on the protection of passenger rights not only to international and national trains, but also to regional trains, so that the same rights apply to these trains throughout the european union. it's one side of the coin. at the same time, we want to make it very clear that this solution is intended to mobilise states and governments to take greater care of the quality of railway infrastructure, of the rolling stock, and of the economic and physical accessibility of transport for passengers. we want rail transport to become an alternative, so that all its advantages, such as ecology, low cost, reliability and safety, can find their place here. we would also like to - and this is the aim of this solution - level the playing field and the rules for competition between rail transport and other transport modes. thank you again for your cooperation, and i look forward to your debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. of course, the railway is a very important element of the public transport system, also thanks to investments co-financed by the european union budget. we want more people to choose this means of transport, but this requires not only modern rolling stock (which is becoming more and more modern) but also significant changes in the rules that will strengthen the position and rights of passengers in rail traffic. and that's what we're doing now. this report is largely a response to consumer expectations, particularly in areas such as compensation and the carrier's liability in the event of delayed trains. our vote tomorrow is also of great importance for improving the situation of disabled rail passengers, who today face many barriers at the ticketing stage. access to boarding assistance and even the mere acquisition of information at railway stations are also problems. we want to eliminate these limitations. i understand the concerns of operators who will now have to bear the additional costs of these changes, but i am also convinced that this will improve the quality of rail services and help attract new passengers who have been more willing to choose other modes of transport. well, it was clear from some of the comments that we'd been subjected to the railway lobby, but this time we'd been subjected to the passenger lobby.
madam president! sustainable development and the protection of the environment, including clean air, require an increased share of rail transport. unfortunately, nowadays, the railway is not competitive with other public transport operators in many ways. one of them is, of course, the difference in consumer rights. the european parliament and council regulation is therefore moving in the right direction: it increases passenger rights, introduces facilities for disabled people and people with reduced mobility, including those travelling with children, with strollers, with bicycles, with pets or with combined tickets. the compensation rights referred to in the regulation are particularly to be welcomed. i therefore support this proposal, but i would just like to say that i will vote against the introduction of the definition of force majeure, especially in the provision that is proposed.
madam president! i would like to point out that we have a third consumer document in this plenary session. that's good, that's good. and we always try to pay attention to how people are receiving the services that businesses are offering them. but i would like to emphasize that for the third time, the costs are not estimated, the burdens are not estimated, which unfortunately fall on those to whom we address our demands. i think that in general the line of thinking is correct: indeed, attention should be paid to making services better, more friendly, so that in this case the carriers bear some consequences even when they are not able to provide a service at a certain level. but i always point out that we're dealing with a business that has to have calculations and has to have a certain revenue calculated according to certain rigors. i'm drawing attention to this because it's an aspect that's too often overlooked in our debates.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very thorough debate. i am glad that parliament has clearly confirmed its support for improving the protection of rail passengers. today’s discussion has confirmed that we agree on many of the aspects which will allow us to deliver on this important proposal. before i conclude, please allow me to address some of your comments. on integrated and multimodal travel, let me confirm that, today, we have a set of eu regulations applicable only to each individual transport mode separately. let me also confirm that we are progressively moving, already, towards multimodal integrated solutions. this year is a year of multimodality and it is a perfect time to address passenger rights, as well, within the multimodal environment. for passengers combining the use of different modes in one journey, the commission is now launching preparatory work to develop multimodal and integrated-ticket passenger rights. this is our next challenge. so yes, it is important that we set very clear rules, as is reflected in your report. this is especially important for passengers with reduced mobility, who need adequate assistance at transfer points when using a single ticket and otherwise. our cooperation on this topic is not done yet. on force majeure: let me say that, regarding the inclusion and the scope of the force majeure clause, we fully understand your efforts to ensure the best possible passenger protection and smooth operation of railway services. the introduction of the force majeure clause exempts railway undertakings from having to pay compensation where long delays are caused by events beyond their control and which they were not able to prevent. while a force majeure clause has been included in the proposal, events that trigger it have been restricted to natural disasters – so-called acts of god. let me repeat that: a very narrow, restrictive definition of situations caused through purely natural disasters – in order to avoid legal uncertainty and to limit the reduction of passenger rights. the introduction of the force majeure clause aligns rail with other modes of transport in terms of passenger rights legislation, and also of consumer legislation such as the package travel directive. it ensures that the general principle of legal fairness is applied. but, as i said earlier, we will have an opportunity to clarify this issue further when we address integrated ticketing and multimodal passenger rights. i will not go over again the issues that i have already addressed in my opening remarks. as a closing comment, i would like to express once more my deep appreciation of the work you have done. it was crucial to conclude the discussion in parliament before the elections and i am confident that the position adopted by the european parliament will serve as a solid basis for the negotiation with the council. i am very much looking forward to a positive vote on your report tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i must say that i was very pleased to hear the commissioner's replies and the members' comments. we are on the same path, in the same direction, and many of our proposals, i understand, have been accepted. we want laws that are attractive to passengers and that make them want to use the railway. secondly, the solutions and passenger rights in respect of railway obligations must be feasible for the carriers and not involve an increase in ticket prices. if anyone asks about the cost, yes, we estimated the cost. we are talking about several hundred million euros. but remember that during this time we will be spending tens of billions of euros under cohesion policy, the structural funds and the connecting europe facility to modernise europe's rail transport. we have a right to expect quality improvement. and i believe that we have that right. we want to make the services available to passengers both in terms of price and in terms of physical availability. we are talking about consistent regulations throughout the european union, except perhaps for cyprus and malta, where not a single railway line has yet been built, but who knows, anything can happen. we want the liability of the railways and the ticket vendors to be unavoidable, as it has been formulated and is enforceable. the general message we have been following is that when the railway respects the passengers, the railway can be liked. if more passengers use the railway, the railway will have a larger share of the market. this is for the benefit of all citizens, but also for the environment. thank you again, commissioner. thank you for the debate.
in writing. the regulation we are discussing today is very important from the point of view of all rail passengers. soon they will enjoy the same protection of rights as airline passengers. by voting for the regulation, we will ensure that many of the solutions we propose are not to be taken advantage of by anyone who uses the railway on a daily basis. above all, we will increase the compensation thresholds, up to 100% of the ticket price for delays of more than two hours, which will encourage companies to be more careful about punctuality. today, the process of claiming compensation is tedious and complex, and many people give up their rights. it is very important to introduce a number of facilities for disabled passengers, such as the need to provide free assistance or the introduction of compulsory train and station training. it is also worth looking at the obligation to provide bicycle seats on every train and the introduction of the concept of combined travel, which means that the railway company will have to ensure that every passenger can make the switch without any obstacles and, if there is a problem, to ensure that they can continue their journey. the new rules are a decisive step towards safeguarding the fundamental rights of passengers and i hope that they will make railways a much more popular means of transport. let's remember that the railway exists for passengers.
in writing. the purpose of the regulation is to protect the rights of rail passengers in the union, in particular when travel is disrupted, and to improve the quality and efficiency of rail passenger services. it is important that the scale of the changes be more favourable to passengers. ensuring rail passengers' rights is crucial to the promotion of this still undervalued means of transport. we must meet citizens' expectations, in particular by ensuring rail accessibility for disabled passengers, enabling passengers to use bicycles and simplifying the rules on compensation for delay or cancellation. the rules are now more friendly to operators than to passengers, which is one of the obvious reasons why the railway is losing its appeal. the trend should be reversed, given that it is an environmentally friendly and fast means of transport. our duty should be to create a passenger-friendly law. unfortunately, when using the services of several carriers, you cannot expect to be compensated or to be provided with free onward travel by another carrier in the event of a delay in a transfer. the rights are limited by the commercial agreement between the companies or the lack thereof. meanwhile, airline passengers can claim compensation or another flight or accommodation with meals if their plane does not land on time. the same should apply to rail services.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. persistent organic pollutants are chemical compounds that are not only potentially but also actually dangerous because of their specific properties, which are related to their toxicity and adverse effects on the human body, but also because they are super persistent in the environment, have the capacity to bioaccumulate and thus have a negative impact on the environment and human health. people are exposed to persistent organic pollutants in many ways. mostly by the food they eat or the air they breathe. products of everyday use, especially plastic products, may contain many substances constituting persistent organic pollutants that have been added to improve the product's properties, which means that persistent organic pollutants can be found almost everywhere in measurable quantities. as a politician, but above all as a doctor, i am particularly concerned with the issue of public health in the broadest sense, and in this context i think about the safety and health of people and animals. it is a beautiful idea, but i have to agree with the rapporteur on the proposed derogation which allows different concentrations in recycled materials. maybe it's a less ambitious look, but a pragmatic one. i am in favour of proposing real legislation and in numerous consultations the recyclers have spoken in favour of this change and hence my support for the final report.
madam president! i'm going to change my speech a little bit because of the debate that just ended. first of all, i would like to point out that the so-called extraterritoriality category of waste can be taken into account. what that means is that if you look at this ocean or that ocean and you see a huge amount of garbage, you really have a hard time determining the responsibility of those who are supposed to be dealing with this problem. but there is no - i want to emphasize this clearly - extraterritoriality of the sources of these pollutants. they can be replicated and accessed by the entities, the states, even the societies responsible for these pollutants. and the second thing i want to bring to your attention is the completed sede mission in the arctic, where the safety issues of pollution with these very persistent inorganic chemicals were very strongly emphasized. this is a very important element and i am also drawing attention to it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the modernisation of the russian army after a war in georgia led to a massive violation of the inf treaty. this was indicated by the us in 2014, in numerous cases by nato, by myself in amendments to the landsbergis report, and during a meeting of the subcommittee on security and defence (sede) in january this year by renowned experts. deterring russia is a tricky task. we have to rely on the nato viewpoint rather than support russia in its actions by following the narrative.
mr. chairman, please! it's hard to blame the united states for not wanting to sign a treaty that's been systematically broken. it is also hard to really assume that the best kind of pressure to enforce the ban on intermediate-range missiles will be requests, declarations, appeals. if we really want to balance the forces, we should learn from this case. the first conclusion is that we must be able to exert convincing pressure, such as strengthening the security of the baltic states or strategically pursuing the demilitarisation of the kaliningrad region in talks with russia, the greatest threat to central europe. let's really remember that asking is not the best kind of politics.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) is far from being a good deal. iranian companies – our partners in trade – are heavily controlled by the revolutionary guard – the organisation directly responsible for financing terrorism, bloody martyrs and meddling in the region. moreover, there is money laundering present in the iranian economy – that was admitted even by foreign minister zarif himself in the iranian parliament. we have to take all of this into consideration.
as an alternate rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am pleased to open today's debate on the report by sirpa petikainen on care services in the european union in the context of equality between women and men. unfortunately, it is very telling that sirpa cannot present this report in person today because of his caring duties. sirpa, we're holding our fingers to the bone! i would like to start by saying that the report is linked in time and subject matter to the work-life balance legislative package, which contains the european commission's proposals on a minimum standard for parental leave, as well as paternity and carer's leave. the report by sirpa petikainen complements this legislative package by showing the current situation and challenges in care services for both children and adults in need of care. why are we considering care services today in the context of women's rights? because this very difficult, demanding work is done primarily by women. if they are caring for a family member, they may have to give up their normal work, they may work for years without a day off. their work is unpaid, and if they do it for another family, even if it is paid, it is very often unregistered work. 80% of care services and domestic workers in general are unpaid workers with no social security, no future, no pension. this report is about what is most important in every person's life: human dignity. we also mention women in this report because caring for dependants is the number one obstacle to women's participation in the labour market. career interruptions, late career starts, delayed promotion because of children, early exit from the labour market because of caring parents, choosing educational and career paths that allow you to be available to your family rather than your employer result in lower wages, slower promotions, periods of inactivity and, as a result, a low pension. i would remind you that the pension gap in the european union is currently 38%. as caring responsibilities are the first obstacle to professional development for women, the provision of accessible and high-quality child and adult care services is a primary responsibility of policy-makers and decision-makers in this area. demographics are inexorable the need for care is growing, the problem is becoming more serious and will continue to grow, and women are the victims of the lack of effective solutions. the regulation of this market, the formalisation of care work and the search for solutions to ensure the health and financial security of informal carers are the main themes of sirpa petikainen's report, which has been amended many times by the political groups, and for all these amendments i thank the rapporteur very much. the rapporteur raises a number of important and urgent care needs in her report. it draws attention to the fact that care objectives are most effectively achieved in the family and environmental rather than institutional system. the report then emphasises the importance of such home-based care, based on relationships with family and friends, and calls for infrastructure and organisational solutions that strengthen home, family and environmental care. it is crucial that all types of care are supported regardless of the professional status of the carer, that is, that it is available to both full-time and part-time employees and to the unemployed, and that the burden of care policies, the main direction of their development, is based on home care, in-home care, and not on institutions. on behalf of the ppe group, i support this report, but i would point out that on certain amendments tabled by our colleagues from other political groups, concerning the separate taxation of women and men, the integration of monitoring of care systems into the european semester or the transfer of the burden of care to the institutions, our political group will vote against these proposals, as they interfere with subsidiarity and pro-family policies.
mr. chairman, please! the explanatory memorandum to the report deplores the negative trend of women spending more time in household care and unpaid work. only a person who doesn't understand what he's writing about, and doesn't understand economics, could write that. if you have two people, one working at the post office and the other working at home, looking after their children for free, that's worse, according to the reporters, than if they swap places, the mother going to work at the post office and the postwoman coming to look after her children. they'll both have paid jobs then. you think this is a better situation, i understand. why do you think it's better? because then the state will get their paychecks. that's what you're after. it hurts you that when you do your work for free at home, you don't get your tax money. and you want to reap where you have not sown. you want to get your hands on other people's money and you want as much money as possible to go into your budgets. it's not about the people's welfare, it's about your full pockets.
mr. chairman, please! the conditions for the care of both children and dependants vary considerably from one eu country to another. this applies both to access to the infrastructure itself and to the quality of the service offered. i therefore believe that while we need a common strategy and an integrated approach at eu level, we should not adopt a 'one size fits all' approach but rather take into account individual local and regional needs. to improve the standards of care services, it is worth using the tools that the cohesion policy offers us. i believe that the structural funds should be directed towards investments in infrastructure in those areas where such centres are still lacking or need to be upgraded. the european cohesion fund can be both a support for staff and a help for young parents and carers to return to the labour market after a break in caring. it is also important to promote flexibility among employers so that carers can combine their duties with their professional careers.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to let you down. i would like to thank you very much for all the comments and observations made during this debate on sirpa pietikäinen's very important report. i thank commissioner jourová for her declaration of support for a european union-wide welfare policy and for the work-life balance package that is now being discussed in the trilateral talks, and i have my fingers crossed that these talks will be a success. the issue of care for dependants whether children, adults or disabled requires urgent action in the member states. the european parliament calls on all decision-makers to act urgently. the problem of caregiving is a women's problem, because caregivers are primarily women. most of them, as we've been saying here today, are working without pay or illegally, without social security, without a pension in the future, without a vacation, straining their health and their strength. this is unfair and needs to be changed, also because caring responsibilities are the number one barrier to women's career advancement, and work breaks and restrictions result in a 40% pension gap in the world's richest economy. we need good quality care services, and especially those that are delivered in a family and community system. we need to pay for the work of a caregiver and to take that work into account when calculating the pension. we need to support informal carers, regardless of their professional status, so that they do not have to leave their jobs to fulfil their duty of care to their loved ones. we need urgent solutions at member state level, as well as a european strategy and roadmap, so that national policies can be implemented more effectively. the provision of accessible and high-quality child and adult care services is a priority for policy-makers and decision-makers, including us. why would you do that? because the demographics are inexorable. the need for care is growing. the problem is growing and will continue to grow, and women are the victims of the lack of effective solutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. neuroboreliosis is the most common zoonotic disease in europe. it is estimated that around million citizens are currently affected. the bite of an infected tick, as well as the symptoms of lyme disease, can be unrecognizable, leading to very serious complications. since there is no vaccine for lyme disease, intensive measures are needed. training of first-line doctors, introduction of preventive tests and a rapid treatment pathway for those working professionally in the agricultural and forestry sector are needed. it is necessary to exchange good practices and to carry out intensive and effective information campaigns in the regions most affected by the spread of neuroborelia. i call on the commission to draw up a european plan to combat lyme disease.
mr. chairman, please! i'm primarily concerned with security issues, including, of course, health security, the potential use of various elements of biological weapons by terrorists or totalitarian states. i'll say this right now, so there's no doubt about it: lyme disease is not interesting from the point of view of being used in biological attacks. unfortunately, i have to say once again that we are also characterised by inconsistency, lack of determination, lack of coherence and isolation of individual issues, which - i stress - have a common denominator. i'll point out the neglect of education, the information gaps, the diagnostic gaps, which the commissioner has confirmed. i want to make it clear that eu citizens need passports and visas, but diseases don't. today we have the problem of the spread of smallpox from ukraine to the west, for example, to poland. i am drawing attention to this because tolerating such phenomena can unfortunately cause serious dangers.
in writing. you can say: it's about time! a european parliament resolution on lyme disease (borreliosis) was adopted. europe has finally won the battle against the most common tick-borne disease. about 1 million people in europe are currently infected with lyme disease. it has been estimated that if we establish a reliable early diagnosis of lyme disease and thereby significantly reduce the number of cases of advanced lyme disease, we will save around eur 330 million in healthcare costs in the first 5 years! more importantly, we'll save a lot of people from suffering! we must also remember that lyme disease is an occupational disease of foresters and farmers. it's also damages! it is therefore urgent to introduce a european plan to combat this silent epidemic, to create a european lyme disease network, i.e. a separate icd (international statistical classification of diseases and health problems) code for the early and late stages of the disease, to introduce preventive tests for the rapid and reliable identification of lyme cases in the union, to establish a rapid pathway of treatment according to ebm (evidence-based medicine) and to introduce permanent european monitoring.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: communist states often evolve, and many of us know this best because we've seen it in our lifetimes, but communism is communism and unfortunately in our dealings with countries that have this type of government, we must always be mindful of the need to move away from this ideology. in vietnam, systematic persecution of christians is ongoing, sometimes very drastic. pastor nguyen trung ton has been sentenced to 12 years in prison, he is sick, his family has no access to him, and in the absence of treatment, his life is really in serious danger. churches are being demolished, and the printing of bibles in minority languages, such as the mongolians, is being banned. but here it is also worth paying attention to what is happening elsewhere in east asia. in china too, persecution of the church is on the rise. bishop peter shao zhumin was recently arrested, as were four of his priests. i'd like to ask the commissioner to take a position on this matter, because silence would be... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i didn't sign this resolution, but i will of course vote for it. i did not sign it because i believe that the authors of such a resolution should be well informed about all the details and know more about each point than is apparent from the explanatory statement. i shall of course vote for this resolution mainly because of the three points: j, k and m, which cover the rights of ngos, the rights of journalists and the activities of the free media. reporters without borders themselves write that the country really deserves special attention because of the worst working conditions for journalists and free media. i'll remind you, this is probably the 175th or 176th country out of 180 that we've evaluated in terms of the rights of journalists to practice their profession. for that reason, i emphasize, i support this appeal and the text of the resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no doubt that enforced disappearances, or abductions, are a strategy used by the government to spread terror and to force submission in communities. by creating a sense of insecurity and intimidation, authorities can more easily control and coerce people into submission. unfortunately, despite bangladesh's declaration to strengthen cooperation with the european union on human rights, this practice continues in bangladesh, as evidenced by the disappearance of shahidul alam. no exceptional circumstances can justify enforced disappearances, but even more disturbing is the reason for alma's disappearance. it is worth mentioning that this human rights defender has criticized the government and defended those who demanded greater road safety. we do not condone such actions and the european union should not condone the intimidation and torture of political opponents.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to one very important aspect of this: the inflation of similar resolutions. please note that we had resolutions on bangladesh from november 2015, april 2017, june 2017, a statement from september 2018 and a report from this year as well. for obvious reasons i shall vote in favour of this resolution, but i would point out that the number of these resolutions does not reflect the actual ability of the european parliament or our institutions to exert a certain amount of pressure on the bangladeshi authorities to change the reality in that country in accordance with the values that are closest to us.
mr. chairman, please! i was just saying that i find voices like mr. kelly's completely irrelevant. the lack of respect for the work of members really cannot be an excuse for a repeat vote. members' salaries are high enough that they can wait here for half an hour until the voting is over. so to talk about moving a vote that mr. kelly is more interested in to a time when mr. kelly would want to stay here is really unbelievable. people listen to it in the public gallery. let's stop saying things like that, because it's a shame.
mr. chairman, please! it has been proven once again in this room that a ballot paper in the hands of a socialist is more dangerous than a razor in the hands of a child. people who say on the one hand that we need more, better care, more care services, on the other hand, they say that we need to formalize and tax them. and if we tax something, we're going to have less of it, not more. if we've paid a nanny 100 zlotys, we'll have to pay another 100 for additional fees and taxes for the state. so either the nanny gets less, or we have to make more to pay for all this. for some reason, the same people who believe that speeding tickets will discourage people from speeding don't understand that speeding tickets will discourage people from working. it's just a different name, and it works exactly the same. if we want to have less work, less services, then let's give people mandates and call them taxes and in this way we will achieve prosperity unprecedented.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and the committee on petitions and to acknowledge the high importance and sensitivity of the issues raised in the numerous petitions that were received over the last few years on the issue of the jugendamt. the issues raised by some petitions and the discussions held in the framework of the committee on petitions work have fed into the commission proposal to revise the process to a regulation. more precisely, the proposal aims at strengthening the rights of the child by ensuring that their views are heard in the legal proceedings concerning them. the mutual recognition of member states’ practices in this respect will avoid refusals at the stage of recognition or enforcement, thus allowing a true circulation of judgments in the union. we hope that the council will reach a political agreement on this file in december. furthermore, the cross-border nature of the family cases requires a close cooperation between member states’ authorities. the proposal ensures a more effective cooperation between central authorities which in germany is the federal office of justice. they are the direct interface with parents and should play a key role in supporting the judges in applying the regulation. in addition, we proposed to integrate cooperation with child welfare authorities in the overall cooperation system. on the other hand, i have to recall that the functioning of the national child protection agencies is governed by national law in cases of concern about the proper functioning of such a system redress had to be sought at a national level. over the past years, the commission has used several tools to promote exchanges between member states to facilitate mutual understanding, with a view to ensuring the protection of the rights of children. it has done so through the annual forum on the rights of the child, the calls for proposals under the rights, equality and citizenship programme, as well as the focus put on the promotion of integrated child protection systems. under the justice programme, one of the funding priorities for 2018 is improving the situation of children involved in civil cases, for example through better procedures, case handling and cooperation in the area of family law in such areas as parental responsibility, international child abduction, the protection of children and maintenance. once again, let me highlight the importance that the commission attaches to these issues and i look forward to your views.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the german youth office, the jugendamt, which was supposed to look after the welfare of children and young people, in fact often acts against children, violating articles of the charter of the rights of the child, taking children from their parents - especially foreigners from central and eastern european countries - very often for trivial or imaginary reasons. of the almost 140 000 control procedures initiated, only 22 000 cases were found to be fully justified. many of my compatriots live with their families in germany, and we hear many complaints in poland from desperate parents whose children have been taken away by the jugendamt, who have been forbidden to meet their parents, have been prevented from communicating in polish or their mother tongue (petitions are also filed by parents from other european nations), and even banned. the dispute with the jugendamt has been going on for years, the office is criticized for laziness, excessive interference in family life, invasion of privacy, and all this does not promote the development of the child, and even leads to mental disorders, personality and identity.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that we are finally dealing with real problems of the rule of law here in our parliament. it's a pity that such important discussions are postponed to this late hour, when there is only wind blowing in the halls of parliament after the last vote. but it's good. we see how human rights and children's rights are threatened in germany. the germans are trying to teach poland about the courts, for example, and they have much more serious problems at home. but this is not just a german problem. similar practices exist in many countries. the problem is that we're building a totalitarian state. the characteristic of a totalitarian state is that it recognizes no authority but its own. that's why the totalitarian state fights against parental authority. the totalitarian state thinks it knows better than the parents what is good for the children. he's using the child's best interests to interfere with his family's life. there can be no case where the best interests of the child allow officials to interfere with parental authority. only the commission of a criminal offence, a serious crime, can justify the removal of children, and not the welfare of the child, because the welfare of the child can be understood differently by everyone and has the sacred right to understand differently than the official. it is sad that on our continent we, the proud heirs of indo-european heritage, allow ourselves to be so abused by officials that we give up our children without firing a shot. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i said what we should do: the child belongs to the parents and only the parents should decide what is good for the child, not the officials. so it is not just a question of jugendamt and germany, although there this policy has been taken to an extreme that is not only in germany. the solution is that the officials have no right to invoke the best interests of the child against the parents. only the commission of a crime against a child can justify intervention, not some imaginary, self-conceived good of the child.
mr. chairman, please! since 2006, i.e. over a period of 12 years, the committee on petitions has received a total of 258 petitions containing complaints about jugendamt. of these, 196 petitions, or 76%, concerned children of german citizens. the remaining 62 petitions were from citizens of other countries. the committee on petitions has usually only had the petitioner's report at its disposal, and no institution can restrict a citizen's rights without a court ruling, including in childcare matters. so the verdicts in each case had to be unanimous. however, most petitions do not include a judgment, despite, or perhaps precisely because, the judgment of the court is the only complete source of knowledge of the problem. it's based on the testimony of both parents, children and witnesses. the commission was therefore obliged to base its opinions mainly on the report of the petitioner, the only party to the dispute. i therefore asked the european court of human rights in strasbourg which of the 62 petitioners of non-german nationality had lodged a complaint with the court. i was told that only 17 people had made such a complaint and that all of them had been declared inadmissible. in 2011, during a mission to germany, the members of the committee on petitions also found no irregularities. but the issue has returned regularly, becoming, like anti-vaccine hysteria, a tool in the political struggle, especially in the run-up to elections. it sows anxiety and undermines not only trust in authority but also mutual trust within the european community. and that is something we should pay particular attention to. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! do you think that the jugendamts in germany are functioning correctly, without fault and that all the allegations mentioned here, mentioned in the media, are imaginary? would you therefore propose that the jugendamt's jurisdiction be extended or that similar offices be set up in other european union countries?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. he's not even attacking. in his work, every politician should be based on facts and documents, not on press reports, often based on the emotions of one person who feels wronged. as you know, in poland too, social welfare departments with a similar structure as jugendamts sometimes fail to take care of their duties. but in that regard, i would urge you to read the documents, because they are the most important, not the emotions of one man.
mr. chairman, please! the activities of the german child and youth welfare authorities have repeatedly aroused public outrage in poland, but the problem is much wider and affects citizens of all eu countries who have come into contact with this institution. illegal but unfortunately legal under german law, child abduction or banning the use of the mother tongue in contact with parents are common practices of jugendamt. in poland, we have the worst historical association with this type of activity. chancellor merkel said two days ago in this house that national selfishness is contrary to european values. however, she is not bothered by the fact that german officials favour german-speaking parents and discriminate against citizens of other countries in mixed families. parliament and the commission are very keen to combat all forms of discrimination, so i hope they will not lack the determination to stand by polish parents, among others, who have been victims of jugendamt.
mr president, the resolution is based on petitions by non—german parents in binational couples, which alerted parliament to cases of alleged discriminatory, judicial and administrative procedures related to family disputes on parental responsibility and child custody. the committee on petitions has received petitions raising similar allegations related to the functioning of social systems in sweden, denmark and the uk. being a parent myself, i cannot even picture the pain that a family goes through when faced with such a dramatic situation. however, as a member of the european parliament, i would like to underline the fact that, while family law is the sole competence of member states, social welfare institutions, courts of law or any other competent public body must put the best interest of the child at the centre of the decision or action that they take. we cannot give those families false hope that we have tools to help bring children back home. furthermore, the european institutions and member states should promote cross-border cooperation on family matters, providing training for judges and professionals, information on legal aid, and bilingual lawyers, and involving embassies and consular representatives from the start of all childcare proceedings involving their nationals.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! on behalf of thousands of polish parents who have been wrongfully deprived of their children for years, often under cover of night or as a result of slander, and forbidden to speak to them in their native language, i ask: when will the jugendamt, which has no central oversight and whose history dates back to the second world war, be abolished and replaced by a supervised central office to support parents in the upbringing of their children, and when will the countries whose citizens are affected be kept informed and actively involved in monitoring the respect of children's rights? wojciech pomorski recalls his tragedy: since the girls were abducted in 2003, i saw them for the first time after two years under surveillance for five and a half hours they were already germanized then after a year, in 2006, for five hours, the last time in 2010 for five and a half hours, also under surveillance as usual. altogether, 16 hours over 15 years. the reasoning behind the ban on the use of polish was that it is not in the children's interest to speak polish in supervised meetings. when it's inconsistent with the procedure... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the german youth office (jugendamt) is an institution founded in 1922 in the weimar republic, whose activities during the third reich were blacklisted in the history of europe, especially poland. the historical circumstances mentioned above have made the performance of the office's tasks a sensitive matter and a matter of particular concern. the more so since the current practice of the office involves drastic interference in the lives of the families in care. the official is authorized to place the child in foster care on the basis of vague rules that leave wide scope for abuse, which repeatedly results in the removal of children from their parents without sufficient justification, without any appeal from the arbitral decision. it is particularly scandalous that the civil servants openly discriminate against persons of non-german origin. during supervised meetings, children are not allowed to communicate with their parents in any language other than german. such action by the office is contrary to the un convention on the rights of the child, in particular article 8 thereof, which guarantees respect for the right of the child 'to retain his identity, including nationality, name, family relations, in accordance with the law, excluding unlawful interference'. furthermore, the activities of the jugendämter and the legal framework governing their functioning infringe a number of articles of the echr. i therefore expect that the jugendamt case, which is also the subject of the plenary debate, will contribute to the reform of the disturbing situation.
mr. chairman, please! exactly 100 years ago, on november 28, 1918, polish women won the right to vote, before french or american women. so i think that here, right from the european parliament, we should give a big round of applause to all the poles, and especially to those who are fighting all the time for democracy, for freedom, for equality and for so many good things for poland and poles. let's send them our regards and congratulations.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament is one of the institutions of the european union, which operates within the framework of the treaties concluded by our countries. the issue of a global agreement on migration is a contentious one in many countries. we must answer the basic question: do we really want to unite europe or divide it? the debate and the position of the european parliament against the policies of many countries of the union will be an openly divisive action in europe and therefore, out of respect for the countries that do not want to conclude this agreement, i ask that the debate not be held.
mr prime minister, mr president! i want to make three brief points, because of the limited time available. i hope the prime minister will address them. first, i feel that the biggest opponents of the european union are the euro-enthusiasts. those who don't see the flaws, those who don't see the shortcomings, those who don't see the obstacles, eventually have to lead to a collision. we know our opponents on the far left and the far right, we know what they want and we know how to deal with them. the second thing is to see the flaws. a good inventory is only a chance for success. and we lack the tools to get out of this crisis, in short, to get out. and third, the final thesis. today, we are not standing still, as some theorists claim. we either march or we run, but we're not moving. and that's worse than standing, because standing doesn't waste energy. we waste energy not improving our condition.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioners, please! climate and energy policy is a particularly difficult challenge for poland, where coal is the main raw material for electricity and heat production. i appreciate the fact that the strategy recognises the role of forests in absorbing co2, which is an effective way of reducing the concentration of carbon dioxide in the air. poland is open to a fair, honest and constructive discussion on how to jointly achieve climate objectives in a cost-effective, socially acceptable way and without affecting the country's energy security. but i fear that the restrictive scenarios will have little impact globally, but they are causing huge problems in the european union, especially in my home country, poland.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the strategy is the most ambitious attempt to implement the paris agreement, which says climate neutrality will not be achieved until the second half of the 21st century. the success of a strategy depends on two factors: internal and external. internal how our industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, and research centres will be able to implement this strategy. i'm talking about technology, its availability and cost. the support of citizens is also important, so it is good that the strategy is coming before the european elections. it also appears before cop24. and here i'll go to the external factor. the title of the strategy is "clean planet for all". the european union is a big, but small part of this planet, and it's responsible for 10% of co2 emissions. we will find out in katowice how seriously the rest of the world takes the paris agreement and whether it is ready to go even further in its ambitions for 2050. it's crucial to save the entire planet and we have a big task ahead of us at the katowice meeting. how do we get all the big emitters to follow suit, because our plan is to limit the temperature to two degrees. and according to the latest research, according to what we committed to in paris, it could be as high as about 3 degrees, or maybe more. so this is dangerous.
madam president! the level of greenhouse gas emissions reduction that has been imposed on industry has reached the limits of absurdity. there is no technology that can satisfy your wild ambitions, and no spell can change that. the paris agreement was a mistake, and the most important partners are already backing out. china's co2 emissions are almost three times the eu's combined emissions, and there's no way to change that. you emphasize the benefits of green energy and reducing emissions, but why are you silent about the costs? why don't you talk about the escape of industry to the eastern countries bordering the european union? meanwhile, the cost of the eu's energy policy to my country, poland, is about 5 billion zlotys a year and it's still rising. poland will soon have the highest energy prices in europe. this is the real effect of your policy. the temporary framework for climate policy must be suspended immediately and the so-called emission allowances must be abolished.
i'm all for green solutions, but realistic ones, of course. and also a proponent of gross rather than net cost accounting. when someone says green energy is more expensive, they forget that living in smog is expensive for countries. costly, in terms of treatment, health loss, and in some cases, death. i'm all for real programs and real monitoring. in the context of this monitoring, we must also look for additional incentives for those countries which have to bear the cost of changing their energy system, because in some cases this has a negative impact on the cost of living, the direct cost of living paid by consumers. but i want to emphasize again that for us today, to achieve realistic goals, we need good monitoring, effective tools and good motivation.
madam president! i may not know how to lower the temperature of the earth by two degrees, but i know how not to do it. it's not the way to do it, that the countries that are responsible for 10 percent of the world's emissions are going to bleed to death trying to cut their emissions by 40 percent, which is going to have less impact globally than if we were to get everybody to cut their emissions by 5 percent. that's a foolish attitude, because the emissions that we exclude on our land are going to go somewhere else, others will make money, we will lose, and none of this will happen. and then, by raising the stakes and raising the targets to 30, 40, 50 percent, we discourage others from following our path, because we only show the negative effects and the high costs that don't have any effect on a global scale. that's why we're not going down that road.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, if you’ll allow me to elaborate on three points on the deepest transformation. we started with our european economy, on the importance of social inclusion and the need for more advanced technology to use to power this transformation. before i start, i really would like to thank the honourable members for what i feel was broad support for our approach and for seeing this importance in the same way as we do. i absolutely agree with honourable member gerbrandy that what we started under the energy union is the deepest transformation of our energy systems since they were built in europe one hundred years ago. i would like to assure ms rivasi and mr eickhout that climate change is a top priority for this commission and i am ready to say that no other commission in the history of the european union did more to tackle climate change than this one, and it was in close cooperation with this house, the european parliament. looking at the parameters, at the pace and milestones – and here i am sure that my colleague, commissioner miguel arias cañete, will explain the calendar and the timelines of our efforts – it is very important to have public support and to have people on board. therefore, the issues like energy poverty and the need for upskilling for those who might lose their job because of this energy transformation are so important. therefore, we started close cooperation with the co-regions in the transition, where we already have seven countries working with us and we will have our first annual assessment already this friday and, yes, already in katowice, just to show that we care, we have the solution and we have to offer these people a new, brighter, cleaner economic future. when it comes to technologies, as you will see from our strategy, we’ve been looking at all aspects of the technologies and some of them would need help through our research and innovation programmes, would need help through our eligible important projects of common european interest (ipcei) state aid programmes, like we do for batteries. of course, we need to de-risk some of the financing for these cutting-edge new technologies, but it is very important, because what i see in the world of batteries is that if we hadn’t started at european level a year ago, we would really have risked being behind our competitors in asia for many, many years. we need cleaner mobility, we need electric cars, we need less air pollution in our cities. therefore, we are aiming to have 35 million electric cars in europe by 2030, and i want to make sure that they will be powered by high-quality green energy batteries in europe because the market for that would be enormous: eur 250 billion a year. that is the challenge. that’s a market we have to capture. what we are announcing today is the opening of the debate. we need to have the people with us. we need to analyse all the aspects of it and i’m sure that we will present an excellent story and clear european leadership, not only in katowice, but also later when we present the document to the un.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members who have participated in this debate. some of you have complained that this strategy is not ambitious. others considered the importance and dimension of this strategy. i would just say that the strategy proposed by the commission is fully in line with the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report. the special report talks of global greenhouse gas neutrality by 2070 and carbon neutrality, which is not as ambitious as greenhouse gas neutrality, in 2050. the commission strategy is far more ambitious because it nails down climate neutrality and greenhouse gas neutrality already in 2050, 20 years before what the ipcc, with the better science available, recommends at global level, so we have ambitious objectives. it is very clear, if you read the communication, that the commission considers that the european union should, by 2050, be among the first to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and lead the way worldwide. to do so, the european union needs to step up its efforts. that means that we have to go through scenario 7 and 8, which are the most ambitious scenarios and those which lead to climate neutrality. the ambition is here and it touches all sectors of the economy. some of you say, ‘well, but there is no action’. we have started taking action. we have delivered, as vice—president šefčovič said, all the legislation needed on the climate, the emissions trading system that performs as foreseen, regulations on, land use, land use change and forestry, the whole energy union package. with the cooperation of parliament, which has been more ambitious than the commission – for sure, i have to recognise it – we could have a very good dialogue and we convinced also the council to go along and now we have legislation that permits us to reach a reduction in emissions in 2030 of at least 45% – it might be bigger if other legislation comes – and this simple legislation, as the vice—president said, will lead us in 2050 to emission reduction of greenhouse gas emission levels of 60%. so we are already working, but also because of you, we have excellent review clauses in 2023 and 2024 in all the legislation. that means that there will be more ambitious targets in 2030 because there are review clauses there that you have introduced and you have agreed, mr eickhout. so we have the tools, we have the elements to start being ambitious, but for sure we have to step up efforts in the future. this is a revolutionary change, a societal change. it’s a radical change. that’s why i don’t understand very well why mr eickhout considers that we can lead this exercise in 20 minutes. no, because now we, the commission, are inviting the european parliament, the european council, the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee and the european investment bank to consider this mission for a climate neutral europe in 2050. we have to prepare the special summit of the heads of state and of government for shaping the future of europe at the european council on 9 may 2019 in sibiu. in order to prepare for that council, we want to have a real council – all the relevant council formations should have extensive political debates on the contribution of the respective policy areas to the world vision because this touches every area: industry, transport, mobility – all of them –energy, buildings, heating. this is a very complex debate at council and at parliament level. it touches all the committees of the house. all the commissioners have worked together in project teams in order to deliver this communication. it has been a complicated exercise, but we have the product here. also, in parallel to this political exercise, during the first half of 2019, the european commission will take the debate on the necessary deep economic transformation and the profound societal change in an open and inclusive manner to all member states, to national parliaments, to business, ngos, cities, communities, citizens and youth. they should participate in a dialogue in the european union and give their contributions on what is the level of ambition we really want and what is the speed of travel we really want with this informed debate in the whole of europe. i expect in the european elections we will talk about the climate and that could be one of the most important topics. nine out of ten europeans think that the climate is an important problem and more than 74% that it is a very important problem. i think these topics will be at the election. if the different political parties show their positions and we have a world debate, then we are ready to go to the united nations in 2020 with the final strategy. this is the first commission communication to launch the debate. we have preferred scenarios, for sure. we have four ambitions and we also want an informed debate and that, finally, we follow an ambitious path and we are the first major economy to reach climate neutrality in 2050. it’s hard. we will require huge investments but with huge benefits also: for health, the economy and also for the responsibility we have with the rest of the world. some of you said it, if we don’t lead, nobody will lead us. the united states are on climate holidays, as the governor of california, jerry brown, said, and it is up to us to lead the way. but if we show that it is feasible and all our impact assessments – and i recommend that you have a look at the in—depth analysis that supports the commission communication, which is a communication with 20-something pages, the documents here show the difficulties and the challenges, but the possibility to achieve our targets. this is a complex exercise. it touches all society and is something we have to discuss in depth. this is the first moment we sit together. there will be much conversation on it and i expect that we will reach agreement on a very ambitious pathway to deliver what is expected of the european union: the leading climate change policy in the world. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the single market package (2018/2903 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the single market is the greatest, if not the only, success of the european union. however, in recent years it has become clear that the individual approaches and interests of the member states, mainly the well-developed countries of western europe, continue to play a major role in the eu at the expense of weaker partners from the new union countries. these interests are supported by the union administration and the union agencies. it is the byzantine administration that creates the next barrier to the common market, thus imposing a curse on freedom and free trade. in 2017, there were a total of 7076 single market directives in force. is this still a free market? if we want to maintain free trade, if we want to increase competitiveness, if we want to strengthen our industry, then let's stop the legislative machinery and let companies compete peacefully in a truly free market.
mr. chairman, please! the single market will only be a reality when the member states stop regulating it. any regulation, even the attempt by the european parliament to regulate the market in all member states, leads to a lack of uniformity. even these common rules are implemented by national parliaments in a slightly different way, and this leads to - as i say - a gilding effect, meaning that when implementing them, some countries sometimes undermine the meaning of the act, or at least the intentions of the eu legislator. i also have to refer to this incredible nonsense that my predecessor has been saying about unfair tax competition. it's unfair to tax people too much. it is unfair to tax people in general to spend the money they earn on things that are not absolutely necessary for the functioning of the state. it's unfair to take people's money by force and give it to other people. that's not fair. there is nothing dishonest about cutting taxes somewhere, because cutting taxes is a form of honesty. it's only fair that everyone gets what they've earned.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for your input, for your questions. i think all of us agree that, because it was repeated many times, the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union, but of course, we have to face the truth, we have to face the reality that we are not using the full potential of this greatest achievement. we are not using it in 100% as was said, mostly in the services sector. the goods sector is more unified under the single market. i welcome very much your constructive approach on the various issues, although i very much do not agree on one of the statements saying that some of our proposals were a waste of time. it was not a waste of time, for example, the e-card proposal was – i’m completely sure – a step in a good direction, it was a step to allow our companies to go cross border and to trade cross border and to provide their services cross border. unfortunately, it was blocked, as some other proposals were. i definitely also want to state that a fully functioning single market – because it is also under the framework of this communication – together with a properly functioning standardisation system will make the european union, in an economic sense, more attractive, more powerful internationally and at the same time, ensure the high standards in the various sectors of our lives. of course, those benefits should not be taken for granted. as we see also under this term of the commission, of the parliament, there is a lot of untapped potential. the question was what else we can achieve in the next month to come. let me say – and i regret it very much – that three of our proposals, notification, e-card and single market information tool (smit), were blocked either in the parliament or in the council. still to go are the single digital gateway, mutual recognition, market surveillance and some parts of type approval in different sectors. there are still proposals that are being negotiated in trilogue. some of them have not started yet, but i think we’ll be able to deliver on all of those that i have just listed now before the end of this term. definitely, those three, notification, smit and e-card, although seen by some as not highly ambitious, were really very important and substantial steps in a good direction, as i said.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – the single market is one of the most basic and biggest successes of the european union. we have accomplished the creation of the single market, but we have not completed it yet. now it is time to implement needed improvements for the benefit of consumers and businesses. as achievements, we can mention the elimination of roaming, te recognition of qualification and university degrees across the eu, the enforcement of passengers’ rights facing delays and inconveniencies or removing obstacles in claiming social security abroad. the single market solutions bring tangible benefits to the everyday lives of european citizens. nevertheless, there is still work to be done. the proposals regarding copyright, the free flow of non-personal data, e-privacy and other crucial files need to be finalised before the end of the parliamentary term. the main challenges have not changed: explaining the idea and advantages of the single market; facing protectionist flows at various levels of governance; and the lack of a concrete deadline by when the single market will be completed. every month of delay harms the competitiveness of the european union market.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report drawn up by mr bernt lange and mr paul rübig on behalf of the committee on international trade on the wto: future action (2018/2084 (ini)) (a8-0379/2018).
mr president, while the wto has been at the centre of trade liberalisation, free trade agreements (ftas) have also been a part of pushing free trade forward. it has actually been the interplay between the ftas and successive gatt rounds that drove liberalisation forward, but now this has changed. why? among others, we reduced our tariffs and non-tariff barriers. we also grant generalised system of preferences (gsp) tariff privileges to developing countries. we did all this for the benefit of our consumers and industrial users, but now we have almost nothing to offer to our developing trading partners. also i don’t think we have done enough in our trade system to protect our industry from those imports that have contributed to high co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. i note that there is an opinion from the committee on development (deve) that calls for a carbon emission tax. i think we should follow this call. our eu industries are very efficient at reducing co2 emissions. we should consider imposing fees on imports that are not subject to similar achievements in the place of production.
mr. president, the wto is in crisis. everyone agrees on this, but there is no consensus on whether a facelift is enough or whether a deep reform is needed. we know that there's a lack of current legal solutions. we know that modern technology is missing from the wto in two ways: first, as a commodity, and second, as something that can serve that trade as an instrument not only of control, but also of solutions. i think the most important thing is to anticipate the situation. i would like to counter the opinion that has been expressed here that little has been done recently. i think that when it comes to the changes in the wto, there have been a lot of different things that have been done, although they are obviously not enough today.
in writing. the ecr group would like to express its support for the text of the report reflecting the ec's approach to the modernisation of the wto, which is to streamline the multilateral trading system to make it more fair and transparent. we fully agree that the most problematic issues are market-distorting subsidies, forced technology transfer, the impasse in the doha development agenda and the difficulties in the appointment of new members of the appellate body by the us. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the failure to incorporate human rights norms and standards into global trade and investment rules will make it much more difficult to hold companies accountable. this is of vital importance in the context of restoring the balance between commercial law and human rights. i believe that the eu has a very good reason to be actively involved in the work of the un open working group on transnational corporations and other enterprises in the context of human rights and the defence of the primacy of human rights over corporate commercial interests. this should be the support of the eu institutions and the eeas, including the eu representation to the un in geneva, for the adoption of the treaty in this field. at the same time, i am concerned that the role of the european parliament in this matter is not clear. i call for effective protection of human rights and for the establishment of effective and accessible redress mechanisms for citizens to resolve disputes over these violations.
serbia is not easy to judge, especially since it cannot be taken out of the context of the hot balkans. and for that reason, congratulations to david mcallister, not only for the report, but for the opinion that accompanies it. in particular, for the two key sentences that concern the rule of law assessment, and in particular the mention of chapters 23 and 24 as indeed key, which will determine whether serbia, possibly, after accession, will not be a source of legal problems related to the rule of law. i also share the assessment, the second one is much more favourable in terms of economic change. serbia has indeed done a lot in this area, and this can be assessed positively and we can keep our fingers crossed for the remaining paragraphs, chapters, so that this preparation does not raise any doubts.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr igor šoltés, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2018 commission report on kosovo (2018/2149 (ini)) (a8-0332/2018).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i was in kosovo. it's no secret that the state has been the subject of controversy. it was built with a lot of american help, which some european union member states viewed with some skepticism. in the years ahead, we can say that it is certainly worthwhile for the european union to invest in the western balkans at all and that the integration of these countries into the union is a stabilizing factor. creating a european perspective - not tomorrow, not the next day, but even in the longer term - will make russian influence in that region, to put it bluntly, smaller. russia is always trying to play the western balkans card, including when it comes to kosovo, and we must see this.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2018.
before we move on to the appropriate item on the agenda, may i first welcome the delegation from the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, who are present in the chamber. i extend a warm welcome to you, especially to deputy foreign minister andrej žernovski and the multi-party delegation of the macedonian parliament. (laughter) thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for such a warm and friendly reception. dear mr. deputy minister! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to assure you that the european parliament will continue to support your country in its efforts to implement reforms, including the implementation of the prespa agreement, which is a positive sign of agreement for the whole region. if i may allow a personal note, as a student i once had the pleasure of spending three months in skopje on a scholarship, hence the city and the macedonian people are very close to me. thank you for giving me that opportunity.
the next item is the report by mr ivo vajgl, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2018 commission report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2018/2145 (ini)) (a8-0341/2018).
in writing. macedonian mps approved the government's proposal to amend the constitution to implement the agreement signed with greece in june. under it, the country will change its name and become officially the republic of north macedonia. this will end the 27-year dispute with athens and open the door for the macedonians to join the eu and nato. macedonia is considered to be the candidate country which has made the most progress in aligning its legislation with the eu acquis. despite this positive opening, i have to express my concern that the former prime minister of macedonia, nikola gruevski, who fled his country for fear of imprisonment, has been granted refugee status in hungary. in macedonia, he was convicted by a final judgment for exerting pressure on public procurement officials, and is also the subject of five other investigations. it is difficult to understand why the authorities in budapest have accepted his request, considering him to be a political persecutor and granted asylum to a politician who was against macedonia's accession to the eu and nato. i fully support the commission's recommendation and the council's decision that accession negotiations should start in june 2019. the effective opening of the monitoring and negotiation process has the potential to further accelerate the pace of reforms in macedonia.
the report presented raises a number of very important issues concerning montenegro. it is good that in paragraph 22 we deplore, among other things, the lack of progress in combating trafficking in human beings and the forced begging of children. this is a shameful practice and no country aspiring to membership of the european union can tolerate it. but needlessly, and again in a very specific way, the report promotes gender ideology. this time, in paragraph 34, concerned by the difficulties of accepting sexual diversity in montenegrin society. i think it's unnecessary.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this very fruitful debate, just like our other exchanges today. the commission’s western balkan strategy, the may sofia declaration and the june council conclusions all represent a clear signal of encouragement and the eu’s engagement with montenegro and the whole region. as i said earlier, the eu is in a unique position to help address the country’s challenges. the european perspective is of crucial importance for the stability of the whole region and i think we all agree that montenegro has achieved a lot. it’s firmly committed to its eu path and the eu remains equally dedicated to montenegro’s future in the union. however, as you rightly point out in your report, there is work ahead and the focus needs to be kept firmly on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of the media, public administration reform, and a genuine involvement of civil society, to mention only a few of the key areas. the accession negotiations’ benchmarks will help montenegro to address these and other priority reforms, which will move montenegro closer to the eu. negotiations will continue to proceed on the basis of the own merits principle. the commission will continue to support the country. the pace of progress as such is entirely in the hands of montenegro. i would like to use this opportunity to thank honourable members for the exchange of views today and i look forward to further progress on montenegro’s eu path. i would also like to use the opportunity to thank the austrian presidency for its decision to choose the western balkan enlargement as one of its core areas during its presidency, and not only to choose it, but also – as we could see today and on many other occasions – to pursue it with very strong dedication.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i wish to thank you for a very useful debate. i take note that our institutions have a very similar approach and assessment. we look forward to continuing this constructive dialogue and engagement. the council will continue to closely monitor montenegro’s progress, paying particular attention to the area of rule of law and other important issues mentioned here today and also by the commissioner. let me express our appreciation for the constructive contribution of the european parliament and in particular rapporteur, charles tannock, in advancing montenegro’s succession process. i can assure you that we will continue to pay particular attention to the views of parliament in this regard.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the khan report rightly draws attention to the importance of academic freedom for open and stable pluralistic societies. the right to think and speak freely is fundamental for democracy and we see the increasing attacks on academic freedom as part of a general trend of shrinking civil and political rights across the globe. let me assure you that we wholeheartedly share the concerns expressed in the report and welcome the initiative by mr khan to respond to this crisis, which is building up and threatening to erode our liberal societies. i note that this morning mr khan organised a roundtable on ‘ideas are not crimes’ where colleagues from the european external action service (eeas) already had an opportunity to share some of our activities in this area. human rights and democratic values are at the heart of our external relations and policies and i thank the european parliament for its leading role in upholding these values. the khan report affirms that ideas are not crimes and that critical discourse is not disloyalty and that academic freedom plays an essential role in educational advancement and the development of humankind in modern society. this is true and our actions show that we mean it. the khan report calls for explicitly recognising the importance of academic freedom in public statements, policies and actions relating to the eu’s external action. we are doing this in our relations with partner countries. the most recent statement on turkey on 16 november 2018 condemns the detention of prominent academics and civil society representatives and calls for a rapid resolution based on the principles of presumption of innocence and in line with the european convention on human rights. we also address these issues in our human-rights dialogues, raising attacks on basic freedoms like freedom of thought, speech, assembly and association in general terms, and by enquiring about specific cases. academic freedom and freedom of thought are closely linked to fundamental freedoms and implicitly covered by some of our human-rights guidelines – notably the eu guidelines on freedom of expression – on-line and off-line (ex 2014), eu guidelines on human rights defenders (ex 2016), and eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief (from 2013). these guidelines were drafted to ensure a maximum of coherence, consistency and visibility of human-rights priorities in external relations. they provide practical guidance for the work of delegations in this domain. on top of these guidelines we have a number of financial instruments which directly support our human-rights agenda which scans for vulnerable groups like journalists, human-rights defenders and religious minorities. academics have directly or indirectly benefitted from a number of such instruments. for instance, the preotectdefenders.eu programme covers all types of human-rights defenders including academics or people defending academic freedom – at least 219 academics with this instrument. the eidhr (european instrument for democracy & human rights) emergency fund also covers human-rights defenders including academics at risk helping them with relocation if necessary. a number of eidhr projects are implemented by our support universities. our flagship is the european masters programme on human rights, which was established in 1997 thanks to the vision of ten pioneer universities. ema (the european master’s programme in human rights and democratisation) is the oldest masters programme supported by the european union. over the years, it has developed according to changing approaches to human rights and democratisation in europe and in the world and to more integrated strategies in trans-european human-rights education. today, ema counts on the participation of 41 prestigious universities and human-rights centres from all member states of the european union. the eidhr also supports the work of the un special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression. thank you for your attention. it’s clear that the recommendations proposed by mr khan’s report and the actions of the commission and the eeas follow the same joint objectives. i therefore look forward to our discussion on how to improve our cooperation on this matter even further.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, allow me to conclude by again thanking mr khan for raising awareness about the urgent need to continue and step up our action to preserve academic freedom and the right to think and speak freely. i would also like to commend him for his efforts to launch the scholars at risk europe network, which took place this morning on the occasion of the round table. finally, let me also thank all honourable members for their interventions, comments and suggestions. it’s a topic which unfortunately will accompany us and therefore we need all dedication and commitment to fight against any shrinking of academic space.
madam president! the european parliament recently adopted a resolution condemning neo-fascism and neo-nazism, which are reportedly being revived in europe. many meps voted against the resolution because it lacked a condemnation of neo-communism. while the first two stigmatized criminal ideologies refer to the fascism of benito mussolini and the national socialism of adolf hitler, the communism, or international socialism, that came out of joseph stalin's soviet russia, has been silenced. communism in its various forms has claimed more lives worldwide than the two stained totalitarianisms combined. allowing neo-communism to spread could have disastrous consequences for europe. parliament cannot be passive and should start with itself, by delegitimising the communist group of altiero spinelli, which is active here, and which in the ventotene manifesto called for the abolition of the nation-states, the abolition of private property and the launching of a european socialist revolution. and his name and image must be removed from parliament's premises as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs rosie esteraz on the excellent text of the resolution on the situation of women with disabilities. in europe, there are 80 million people with disabilities, 46 million of whom are women. only 18% of them have jobs. the majority of carers of disabled people are women. 80% of them do it informally and without pay. it's a vicious cycle of inequality, of endless effort and injustice. why are so few women with disabilities entering the job market? what are the laws or lack of laws that hinder the economic empowerment of women with disabilities? it's not just about money and untapped talents and competencies. it is also a question of human dignity linked to the fact of being an independent person and fully integrated into social and economic life. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of disabled people are respected. i'm not going to let you down. implement the recommendations of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the european disability strategy as soon as possible. i also call on the commission and the member states to review and fully implement the disability legislation, to include universal design principles and to make better use of digital technologies and medical advances, so as to increase the self-reliance, employability, and sense of freedom and dignity of women and men with disabilities.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our sensitivity to the needs of people with disabilities is evident on the eve of international day of persons with disabilities. it seems a bit hypocritical to me, however, that on the occasion of the upcoming european day of persons with disabilities, we in the european parliament are discussing the issue of people who should be supported and who should be given opportunities and opportunities for education, professional development and access to cultural goods. the question today is why the european parliament is acting in an action-oriented way. beyond the political divisions, we should take action that will allow people with disabilities to simply live in dignity. it's a pity that you're throwing into this document - i'm speaking to the left side of the parliamentary chamber here - issues related to gender change. i think it's unfortunate that in such an important... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. women with disabilities experience different difficulties in their daily functioning depending on their age, place of residence, social status and the type of disability. these problems are twofold: on the one hand, they concern the acquisition of a suitable education or the finding of a desired job; on the other, they concern the individual's qualities related to self-acceptance and self-esteem. in addition, barriers to transportation and architecture make simple activities of daily living very complicated or even impossible. i agree with the resolution's assumptions about promoting initiatives to promote labour activation and ensure equal access to education and work. otherwise, it can result in poverty and social exclusion. enforce the removal of all barriers and address the social discrimination they experience. it is necessary to implement policies for the prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of disabled people and to provide support to their families. i think that when we talk about disability, we should not bring ideological differences into the debate. in my opinion, the resolution should be free of any worldview statements, especially those concerning sexual orientation and abortion. the inclusion of these topics makes the resolution a subject of ideological controversy and does not serve the disabled. the issue of helping women with disabilities is close to most meps, but the issue of access to abortion or gender reassignment is no longer.
in writing. it has been said that the way people treat the disabled is the measure of civilization today. the approach to disability has evolved from treating disabled people as objects of charity to seeing them as entitled. the modern definition of disability, while fully recognising the humanity and dignity of persons with disabilities, emphasises their rights on an equal basis with others. we can no longer see disabled people as a constant source of care and support. today, disabled people don't expect pity or super privilege. they want to be treated in the light of human rights and scientific advances leading to advances in treatment, rehabilitation and education that guarantee equal opportunities and protection against discrimination. they want a sense of security and solidarity. first you have to see the person, then you have to see the wheelchair. this is particularly true for women and girls with disabilities, who are three times more likely to be victims of violence than women with disabilities. we must urgently remove existing barriers and obstacles, including architectural barriers, to create equal rights and opportunities for women and girls in family, political, cultural, social and professional life.
it is very important for this resolution to identify the country where such serious problems of financial abuse have occurred: germany. it is a very sad picture that such an important country in the european union has allowed legal loopholes to such a serious affair. i would remind you that german law has allowed the tax authorities to lose 55 billion euros in 11 eu member states. all thanks to crooked bankers, crooked lawyers, crooked stockbrokers. this is a sum that would certainly cover most of the needs of the german bundeswehr. i would like to draw attention to the two main elements of this resolution, firstly the concern that this could lead to a gap and secondly the call made by my colleague, darius rosati, for whom i would like to thank him very warmly and to underline the importance of this call.
madam president! for years the activities of the german jugendamt had been opposed, and we had to talk very often and in vain about their respecting the rights of every parent, especially in cases of broken families. it is good that this subject has finally been taken up by the european parliament, albeit belatedly. we must always remember that human rights are first and foremost about faith, family, education, human dignity, national identity. the rights of politicians fighting for power are merely derivative. and it is good that we are speaking about this clearly in this resolution today. i hope that it will result in a greater openness to criticism of the liberal state, an awareness that social engineering cannot destroy the most basic human rights and that people, just people, will be safer because of it.
i voted for a report which points out the discrimination against parents by the german jugendamt, which, while supposed to look after the welfare of children, actually works against them by taking children away from their parents, especially foreigners. discrimination against non-german parents, the taking of children for trivial reasons, also applies to the netherlands and other countries where article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights is violated, which states that every child has the right to maintain a permanent personal relationship and direct contact with both parents, unless this is contrary to his interests. the petitions received by the commission contain ample evidence of violations of the rights of the child, of identity, of freedom, of personal security and of the prohibition of communication in the mother tongue, resulting in germanization, which leads to the breakdown of the family and is the cause of great trauma to children, orphan disease and even death of children separated from their mothers. the jugendamt, which receives huge child benefits of several thousand euros, penetrates practically every sphere of life.
madam president! i voted in favour of the jugendamt resolution because it is a subject which is very controversial, very controversial and very emotional, as evidenced by the huge number of petitions that have been received by the european parliament. this issue should be seen primarily from the perspective of genuine human drama, especially the drama of children, and not for the sake of so-called political correctness. according to information provided by the polish association of parents against discrimination against children in germany, in 2016 alone, the jugendamt took 77,000 children from their families, of which at least 20,000 were polish children. parents often have no contact with their children for years, and during supervised visits, they are unable to communicate with them in their native language. let us remember that a few years ago the european parliament's committee on petitions also adopted a critical report on jugendamt, but there was no positive reaction, reflection on improvement or empathy on the part of jugendamt. it is therefore high time that the german child and youth services started to act solely in the interests of the child and the strengthening of the potential of the biological family.
madam president! the source of yesterday's debate is extremely important, as is the report itself. i would remind you that this is a failure, but it is a failure that began in 2008, when the first resolution was adopted in support of the need to review the wto. why would you do that? because they're stuck in a dead end. and it's very important to me that from 2008 to 2018, it's not so much that nothing was done, but that not much was done. i would remind you that after the last wto ministerial conference in buenos aires last december, it turned out that the negotiating function of the organization was completely paralysed. it was made even more so by the urgency of the task, and hence our debate. i would like to stress once again that it is not true that little or nothing has been done in the last 10 years. a lot has been done, but it is completely inadequate for the smooth functioning of this institution.
madam president! i would remind you that serbia started formal negotiations in 2014. since then, we've had 35 chapters, 14 of which are open, which is less than half. only two have been closed. i would like to draw attention to this fact because at this rate the prospect of serbia's accession to the european union is 40 or even 50 years if, of course, this rate is maintained. it is very important to me that the report itself on this issue is very good and has been positively assessed, whereas serbia's progress in implementing the elements to which it has committed itself is unfortunately unsatisfactory. i would particularly stress that of these 35 chapters, the areas where the greatest shortcomings or lack of progress were noted were those relating to the rule of law and freedom of expression. and i remind you that these issues were considered extremely important.
madam president! kosovo is receiving invaluable advice from the european union on how to combat terrorism. the european union recommends that terrorists be rehabilitated, educated and socially integrated. i can see the terrorists are now on their knees in fear, and the father of the terrorist is telling his son, be careful, because if you get caught, you will be subjected to such education, rehabilitation and integration in the european union that you will really regret it. people, the way to fight terrorism is to reinstate the death penalty. what you're saying, this education, rehabilitation and integration, it's a reward, not a punishment. education is earned, integration is earned, and you want to give it to people for free in the name of fighting terrorism for being terrorists. it's kosovo's weapon against advisers like the european union.
madam president! in the report it voted, parliament welcomed the considerable efforts made by macedonia and greece to find a mutually agreed solution to the name issue. however, macedonia faces similar problems to other countries in the region. in paragraph 32, we call on the authorities to take action to dismantle criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings, weapons and drugs. as in the case of albania and montenegro, the report on macedonia shows an excessive concern for lgbti people. in paragraph 43, parliament calls for the punishment of homophobic and transphobic violence, and welcomes the establishment of an inter-party parliamentary group on lgbti rights. i do not think that these records are necessary, which is why i voted against this report.
madam president! in the report voted on, the commission recommends the opening of accession negotiations with albania. they are intended, as the document stresses, to allow for closer union control and reform. as in other candidate countries, we are drawing attention to the dangerous trend of human trafficking. this is what is referred to in paragraph 18, where our parliament calls on the albanian authorities to take decisive action to dismantle the criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings, as well as in firearms and drugs. however, paragraph 23 unnecessarily promotes gender ideology in a specific way by including lgbti entries. that is why i voted against this report.
madam president! i wanted to refer to the scandalous situation of the oral amendment being tabled in the plenary, which is not just a spelling correction but a filtering of eu documents with some sexist nonsense about rural women who must be provided with something, at the expense of the other taxpayers, of course. this formula must be criticized, as must the scandalous content of the amendment itself. i am also sorry to say that there are not forty honest members who would object to this amendment being tabled during the sitting. only a few mps stood up to oppose it. it's really sad and pathetic that you're afraid to speak up on such an obvious issue.
madam president! i voted against this report. i was speaking on this last night. i would like to draw your attention to some of the links between the reports on macedonia and albania. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat trafficking in human beings. it's in every report. there is human trafficking, and here, too, it is further indicated that children are forced to beg. i said yesterday that this is a shameful practice and that no country aspiring to membership of the european union should tolerate it, but there is another trend where our parliament is too concerned about so-called minorities. in paragraph 34 we write that we are concerned about the difficulty of accepting sexual diversity in montenegrin society. i don't think these records are necessary. that is why, i repeat, i voted against this report.
madam president! i voted in favour of the resolution on women with disabilities, which deals extensively with the situation of women and girls, estimated at 46 million, representing 60% of the total population of people with disabilities. despite numerous international conventions and european law, european disability strategies, people with disabilities still face problems in the exercise of their civil and social rights, especially healthcare and the right to vote. these issues, for various reasons, still need to be resolved. the issues raised in the document, sexual orientation, gender, class or even religion, seem unacceptable and of secondary importance, but because of the role of the document, i voted in favour. it is worth recalling that the attitude towards the weakest, including children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled, is a reflection of the level of personal development of individuals, but also of the degree of responsibility and respect for the rights of citizens on the part of states, nations or institutions.
madam president! this is another outrageous, sexist initiative by parliament. i don't understand what this is all about. how far have you gone in this madness? what rights should disabled women have that are different from disabled men? what is this, anyway? we're passing a resolution on disabled women only, so there'll be separate entrances for disabled women and separate entrances for men? if we're talking about, for example, removing barriers to voting, is this somehow more of a problem for women than men? and the most perverse of all is point 7, which says that because women live longer, they are more likely to be disabled and therefore should be given a certain privilege. well, if women live longer and men live shorter, then it's worse for men, and men should be compensated for their hard lives, which end sooner, rather than treating it as a reason to favor women, who are already somehow favored because they live longer. so this is absolutely sick and twisted logic.
mr president, our group is against this because we are in favour of discussing and approving the agreement on trade with japan, but we have worked separately on the rule and principle of adequacy, and we are against adding this topic to the discussion and the resolution and decisions on the agreement with japan. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. france is one of the two most important countries in the european union. we are very concerned about the situation in this country. over the past four weekends, hundreds of thousands of protesters have taken to the streets of french cities, more than 2,000 have been arrested, and nearly 900 people have been injured. we have just accepted the green group's proposal to discuss the situation in the czech republic. i think we should - as the european parliament has done before with the situation in romania, the situation in hungary, the situation in poland - talk about the situation in france, because this situation is important from the point of view of the interests of the european union as a whole. these are our problems, too. i think that this debate should be necessary to avoid the accusation of hypocrisy and double standards, that we are talking only about the countries of central and eastern europe and not about the countries of western europe, including france. hence our request for a debate on wednesday.
mr. chairman, please! i think it is deeply inappropriate to debate animal rights when the rights of unborn people are not protected in europe. you can kill unborn people and we'll feel sorry for the animals. i'm even ignoring the validity of this resolution, because writing a resolution is a meaningless way of doing politics, it's a littering of legislation with acts that don't add anything, because it's not legislation, it's just opinions, it's columnist. don't clutter up the agenda with meaningless discussions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank, and to congratulate, the rapporteur, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy. i would like to thank, too, all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their excellent report on the commission’s proposal for establishing the next programme for the environment and climate action (life), and also for proceeding with this report very quickly and with a lot of ambition. speed and ambition in adopting the proposal for a life programme post—2020 are indeed necessary. the commission has put forward ambitious yet realistic proposals for a modern eu budget, proposing clearer and simpler eu financial rules, which ensure that the union budget delivers on the issues that matter to europeans, such as the environment. flexibility is a key feature of a modern european budget. it is therefore essential to maintain this flexibility in the life programme in order to allow the commission to respond to new and emerging issues in the future. let me also emphasise that life will continue to be entirely dedicated to supporting the eu’s environment and climate objectives, while broadening its scope to support the increased deployment of renewable energy and improved energy efficiency. we have proposed an increase of ambition through wider scope and also through volume for strategic integrated projects, which have an impressive catalytic effect. the new clean energy transitions sub—programme will also enable stronger synergies in the implementation of environmental, climate and energy policies. however, i would like to stress that life is not meant to solve all environmental and climate funding problems on its own. rather, this instrument is a pivot at the heart of the commission’s overall approach to ensuring that the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021—2027 will support environment and climate across all of its instruments. closing the gap between basic research and innovation, the new life programme will support, across the european union, the development and testing of improved methods to implement the eu’s environment and climate policy objectives. the new programme will ensure that those successful methods will subsequently be upstreamed and replicated across the union. as a matter of fact, greater importance will be placed on eu added value. let me be clear about this: the success of life will depend on the eu added value of its projects, not on their distribution simply by member state. that being said, the commission will take care to pursue extended geographical distribution of the projects by supporting the network of national contact points responsible for facilitating the sharing of know-how and good practices. finally, i would like to remind you about the importance of life for nature and biodiversity. in addition to providing continued support for standard life projects, the dedicated nature and biodiversity sub—programme under the new life programme will include a new type of project, namely the strategic nature projects. these projects will specifically support national programmes to enhance the mainstreaming of nature and biodiversity into other policies and financing programmes, including through coordinated implementation of the priority action established pursuant to the habitats directive. let me conclude by saying that i am keen to achieve a first-reading agreement before parliament’s recess and i would like to reassure you that the commission stands ready to play its role as an honest broker. next week, i will discuss the life programme at the environment council, where, hopefully, a partial general approach will be agreed. such a timeline could allow trilogues to start as soon as january.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in its opinion on the life programme, the committee on agriculture drew attention to the following issues, among others. the programme should contribute to the further transition towards a resource-sustainable and energy-efficient low-carbon circular economy, including through the transition to a highly energy-efficient and renewable energy system. references to sustainable agricultural and food systems, as well as to agriculture, horticulture, forestry and fisheries, should be included in the specific objectives of the programme. in addition, the programme shall not interfere with the objectives of other union legislation and policies. the programme should support better environmental and climate governance at all levels, including greater involvement of civil society, non-governmental organisations and local actors. as regards the structure of the programme, the committee on agriculture believes that the 'environment' area should also cover sustainable agricultural practices such as soil biodiversity, agro-biological diversity, carbon sequestration, soil monitoring and environmental and water protection.
madam president! this is the only pro-environment programme financed directly from the european parliament's budget. that is why i am strongly in favour of strengthening it - by financial strengthening. the rapporteur's vote suggests that this increase should be around eur 2 billion. but i would like to mention one very important element: it is important that the whole programme has three major pillars: on the one hand, good diagnosis, on the other, investment and, of course, the educational process. i think the first and last elements are much better. but when it comes to real investments, those investments that will change the situation, we are unfortunately very late. i also support increased efforts to protect the environment, to protect forests, to protect this landscape, where green is the most important thing.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report by mr rolin is a very valuable and important dossier. protecting workers from exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work is a moral and civic duty of employers and governments in the european union. with cancer the leading cause of work-related death in the european union, with between 90 and 100 000 deaths a year in europe, further strong action to prevent exposure to carcinogens and mutagens in the workplace is urgently needed. it is estimated that if we can set sensible and rational limits on exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work, if we can scientifically assess the risks and take the best action, we can save up to 100,000 workers over the next 50 years. then there's something to fight for. the report rightly focuses on the protection of workers exposed to re-prototoxic substances at work, i.e. substances that have a harmful effect on the reproduction of women and men, to which more than 1% of all workers in the european union are exposed. that's two to three million men and women. the more useful and beneficial the report is, the more it is needed.
madam president! i want to congratulate my colleague rolin on what is undoubtedly another step forward in the fight against cancer. but since you're a union man, i'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of three things that i'm a little short of. first, i want to draw attention to the people who are no longer working, but who used to work with these means that we now consider harmful. it's worth getting a medical diagnosis to make up for lost time. these people have been working for a very long time in these conditions that require medical attention and greater awareness. secondly, there is a need to improve the awareness, knowledge and skills of the health and safety services, i.e. those that prepare workers to perform a specific profession under specific conditions. here, unfortunately, in some cases, in some countries, we have the 1950s or the 1960s. and the last thing is universal education. if we are talking about cancer caused or contributed to by the use of certain oils or products, consider how many workers get skin cancer from working in the sun without protective clothing. it's a very big problem in the south these days.
thank you very much, ma'am. you're way past your time. and so the debate has become heated, but unfortunately, i have to close it. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 december 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr sergei stanishev, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the full application of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania: abolition of checks at internal land, sea and air borders (2018/2092(ini)) (a8-0365/2018).
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. dear colleagues! the modern economy is already, or should be, a knowledge-based economy, where human capital is the most valuable and valued asset of any business. human capital is the key to the survival and growth of any business. therefore, the future and current employee must be trained and educated. then offer them an attractive job offer, where they will work in safe, healthy and productive conditions. moreover, the worker must be sure that the relevant institutions are constantly monitoring the quality of his work and the continuous improvement of his living and working conditions. and it is important that this process is rewarding and generates tangible benefits for the worker, the employer and the governments of the eu countries. hence the debate today on the improvement and adaptation to new economic, social and even political realities and conditions of the three european institutions, i.e. the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha), the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). at this point, i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs on the eu-osha, cedefop and eurofound package of regulations, mrs annie sander and mr enrique calvet chambon, very warmly. it was a very good and very friendly collaboration that lasted almost two years. we have had eight trialogue meetings, a very large number of meetings of the counter-rapporteurs and meetings at technical level with parliament, council and commission advisers as well as with the services. i would like to thank the council and the european commission for their constructive and substantive discussions and for the common sense compromises they have made. to better organise the discussions, the council presidencies decided to address the proposals for the three tripartite agencies in a package which was the main responsibility of the social working group. in the spring of 2018, interinstitutional negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission started. the seventh tripartite meeting on 16 october reached an agreement on cedefop and eu-osha. the agreement on eurofound was reached on 9 november. the revision of the three regulations provided an opportunity to provide for anti-fraud measures, a conflict of interest policy and a headquarters agreement. ex-post and ex-ante evaluations, which are the main principles of proper budgetary control, have also been introduced in the regulations. the revision also aligns the provisions on programming and reporting with the requirements of the amended framework financial regulation. the terminology for the governance structure is now in line with the 2012 joint draft on decentralised agencies. as regards eu-osha, the provisions of the new regulation, compared with the 1994 regulation establishing the agency, clearly define the role of the agency in providing the union institutions and bodies and the member states and social partners with objective technical, scientific and economic information and expertise that they need to formulate and implement policies aimed at protecting the health and safety of workers. a key point of the eu-osha negotiating agreement was the presence of a representative of the european parliament on the eu-osha management board, as proposed by parliament. the role of the executive director was also clarified. in addition, the candidate will have to appear before the relevant parliamentary committee, i.e. the committee on employment and social affairs (empl). the european parliament team working together succeeded in the trilogue negotiations by introducing the amendments we proposed. my dear friends! my dear colleagues! commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. it can therefore be said and it can be assumed that our two years of joint work and the final text will improve the quality of work and the living conditions of workers. it will enhance their safety and health. it will make their work productive, with a continuous supply of training and education and scientific responses to the needs of the modern labour market, for the common values and common benefits of workers, employers and governments of the european union countries.
madam president! i am delighted to see that the european centre for the development of vocational training is one of the great projects that all europeans are counting on. it's okay that in every country there are already employment offices and they haven't solved any unemployment problem, but what's the harm, one more office won't fail, the taxpayer will pay and probably won't even notice. but i hope the taxpayer will see this, and if the taxpayers see what's going on here, then maybe by june you'll be supplying a lot of customers to this agency, which will help you find your way in a constantly changing job market, which is a job market that some of you haven't seen in a long time. another thing is the fund for the improvement of living conditions. it's a great project, but it's a fund! the quality of life is improving, the problem is solved. and the great thing about the hoc report is that women are physically different from men. this fact has been disputed here in this chamber, but now, finally, a european taxpayer opens up such a report and sees that whatever is not written there is the truth. so, a big hand, ladies and gentlemen, for the deputy hoc, a great vote!
in writing. the new european agenda for culture presented by the european commission focuses on the key cultural, social and economic aspects. the proposed actions in this area shall include general as well as specific solutions and action plans. many of the new programme's objectives are worth supporting, including the development and creation of new jobs in the cultural and creative sectors, facilitating the mobility of artists, promoting education in the arts and culture, fostering relevant skills and encouraging innovation. unfortunately, the text proposed is more ideological, as well as containing obscure european jargon and a materialistic vision of culture than promoting and protecting cultural heritage. culture is the most important factor in shaping a sense of community, and the heritage of european civilisation is worth promoting, provided that it is reflected in and does not break with the cultural heritage of the nation states. widening access to culture and strengthening relations between the societies of the member states are necessary to exploit the full potential of culture for sustainable development, but the commission's proposed solutions and initiatives are in most cases beyond the competences of the european union, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and of the exclusive competences of the member states. the proposed solutions should aim to improve cooperation between countries as well as support government initiatives and local projects. it is important to strengthen international cultural relations rather than to standardise them.
madam president! in the afternoon, parliament rejected the ecr's request for a debate on the situation in france and the threats to democracy in that country. all of europe and the world are watching with concern the events in france, scenes of violence that are almost like a civil war. this parliament has decided it's better not to talk about it. he recently gave president marcón a standing ovation, confirming how much he does not understand the current political situation. but her double standards add fuel to the fire. as one polish think tank aptly tweeted center of political thought: the eu has no double standards for its members. there are four standards: first, for the largest countries of the 'old union', second, for the rest of the 'old union', third, for the 'new union' governed by parties from the epp, the liberals or the socialists and finally for the 'new union' governed by someone from outside these factions. the union of the four has no future and is unworthy of the europe it likes to claim to represent.
madam president! fellow workers! in a crisis, it's good to show a little cold blood. there's too much irritation here. some people are rushing the council. some people are getting irritated by the protests in paris. they should be dealing with the arrogance of the authorities that sparked these protests. there is irritation that brexit will be on the agenda of the european council. what we need is realism and responsibility. we don't have to choose between an open-door policy and a nationalism that turns its back on refugees. we can choose the rational path and this is what parliament should be saying in immigration policy. i was a big opponent of the british leaving the european union, but now we have to do everything to avoid a hard brexit. and it is the commission's and the council's job to show flexibility so that the worst does not happen: a break-up without a contract. it's about responsibility and realism.
madam president! from the council's rich agenda, i choose the post-2020 multiannual budget (mff) as the leading item on the leaders' agenda for the first time. the council's calendar makes it clear that there will be no agreement before the european elections: neither a common position of the governments, nor an agreement with the european parliament. i would point out, based on my own experience, that if an intergovernmental agreement is reached in october or november 2019, the negotiations with parliament will run in parallel with the negotiations on the annual budget, and this will not facilitate an agreement. when i heard the declarations that an agreement could be reached in nine months, which took two and a half years in the previous round, i thought that this was an expression of political will, but experience has shown that this is not a realistic declaration. it was also unrealistic because of the very different envelopes of cohesion policy contained in the european commission's proposal. if some countries lose almost a quarter of the benefits of cohesion policy while others gain, it is obviously not good electoral news. this is not the way to build pro-european sentiment, and for that reason alone, it was unrealistic to expect that a common position would be worked out before the european elections and that it would be good news for everyone. parliament will take a clear stand, which for most countries is better than the european commission's proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i am not, of course, pleased that the european council is about to announce that monetary union will be deepened, whatever that may mean. i am also not happy that the president of the european council is not here, because it is a pity, he should hear what we have to say. i am glad, however, that we have not heard from the austrian presidency. because it's very significant. there was no talk at all at the european council meeting of taking... (note by the chairman on interpretation) madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! as i said, before the next european council, i am not pleased to hear the announcement of further monetary unification. this is a harbinger of the multiplication of conflicts that we are already seeing in the countries of southern europe. i am also not happy about the absence of president tusk, because it is good that he listens to parliament. it is good that the austrian presidency did not say that the european council would deal with issues that antagonize the countries of europe. we have brexit, we have a revolutionary situation in france. it is high time that the president of the european council stated that the council, firstly, does not have a majority that wants to accuse poland and continue this conflict destructive to europe, and even more so that he stated the complete validity of the accusations of the hungarian government against the informal alleged proposal that the european parliament was to raise against hungary. an anti-democratic invention has been used, which is unknown to parliamentarism in any country in the world - such a concept of qualified majority.
madam president, i very much share the assessment of the situation in the euro area by the commission, but i’m much less in agreement about the prospects. i think that when we look around, we see a number of signs that indicate that the period of economic expansion of the global economy is coming to an end. we see the behaviour of stock prices in the us; we see problems with excessive debts in china; we see a number of emerging economies in financial distress. the question arises: are we prepared to face this new crisis coming? unfortunately, my answer is negative. i think, first of all, that we face the problem with excessive debts in some of the countries. as we all know, monetary policy is not sufficient: it is at a zero interest rate level and cannot help to fend off the recession. fiscal policy has to play the primary role, and many countries are not prepared. secondly, the reforms of the banking union and the capital union have not been completed, and i would urge the commission to intensify efforts in order to eliminate those weaknesses and be prepared for the harder times to come.
mr. chairman, please! the report did not stir up emotion in the plenary, but it did in the committee. it was at the meeting of the committee on culture that the most important debate took place, during which two issues were raised, which i would like to highlight again today. there are two kinds of exclusion: first, the exclusion of teachers from the ability to use new technologies in the digital age, and second, the exclusion of content in a certain area of learning, the acquisition of knowledge, the ability to distinguish fake news from news and real information. i am drawing attention to this because of the very good speech by the rapporteur, mrs toom. and i want to emphasize that and i want to come back to it to say that if we don't reduce these two exclusions, we're going to have problems.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against it. and here, of course, is another display of sexism by the authors of this report. it's encouraging women or formulating programs to invest more time in learning digital technologies. or do they not want to? stop telling people what to do with their lives. you're politicians. the role of politics is not to interfere in other people's lives, but to solve urgent and necessary issues for all citizens. so i am absolutely opposed to this. and the stupid erasmus-type programmes will now be extended to the whole world it will be erasmus mundus. maybe even the erasmus universe as a whole. let's launch people into space to study gender studies. this is the best place to do it.
mr. chairman, please! digital skills are essential for a successful career. there are new professions today that require advanced digital skills. digital tools are increasingly used in occupations that have traditionally been non-technological. the vast majority of jobs in the near future will require at least basic digital skills. it is important that educational institutions prepare pupils for the changes brought about by the rapid development of new technologies. it is schools and their teachers that are the starting point for proper digital skills education. unfortunately, in most member states, they are overworked and poorly paid. if the digital transformation of the european economy is to be successful, we need to increase the investment in education and to train teachers in digital skills. it is rather another tool for improving the quality of teaching, but we must not forget that educational institutions cannot neglect the comprehensive education of students, including, above all, the development of critical thinking. this will enable them to become not only more efficient workers and responsible users of new technologies, but also active citizens.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the outcome of the negotiations on the updating of the tasks and rules of operation of the four decentralised agencies under the directorate for employment and social affairs. i voted for all three of the statute revisions. i very much hope that the review of the european centre for the development of vocational training will lead to more effective work and to a focus on specialist analysis, the exchange of experience and the exchange of good practice in europe. in the future, the work of decentralised agencies will be more monitored, exploited and increasingly effective. i think that in the areas of employment, labour market and workers' rights, we are too often faced with decisions based on perception rather than on analysis, research or data. i believe that any step towards supporting research and analysis is a good and right thing to do. but the work of the agency must be accounted for. the presence of experts elected by the european parliament on the agencies' bodies can therefore be a very positive change in this case. today, parliament supported the creation of another new decentralised agency: the european labour authority. coordination and complementarity between the work of all agencies is essential to avoid duplication of tasks and waste of european funds.
mr. chairman, please! the european defence agency is running several projects in the field of military mobility, military diplomacy and multimodal transport hubs of the european union. i would like to congratulate mr kelaam on two other important elements: the authorisation procedures for cross-border movement and the harmonisation of military requirements in connection with customs duties. we came to this very late. military mobility is extremely important, it is a critical element of our security, when it comes to the involvement of the forces of the european union countries in various kinds of activities. however, the report itself, and i want to emphasise this, brings us closer to solutions on the important logistical components, on mobility, but also on overcoming financial barriers.
mr. chairman, please! it's not a groundbreaking report. it's not a report that will lead us to a better tomorrow when it comes to the two topics that are of particular interest to me, namely the mobility of artists and overcoming certain obstacles and barriers to their activities, communication and participation. but i wanted to remind you of one thing. to fight for the mobility of artists, for easier travel, for the abolition of the visa requirement, to also remind the eastern partnership countries, of these young people, artists who are working in georgia, who are working in ukraine, who are working in belarus, so that they too can benefit from certain privileges that are already enjoyed by artists or representatives of this creative industry in europe itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, this new european cultural programme is a long, technocratic manual of several pages, full of portals, awards, festivals, expressions of appreciation, expressions of concern. it's just that we don't really know what it's all for. this document breathes a vacuum, like the walls of both our parliament buildings, which are full of abstract paintings. but not only is there no reference to our past together, not only are there no soldiers from thermopylae, poitiers, vienna. there is no charlemagne, no saint hedwig, but there is no european landscape. even our nature is gone. the only signs of history and identity are a few pictures of former commission presidents, former presidents of the european parliament. we are concerned about opening up the pathways for legal immigration, integrating the hundreds of thousands of people coming from outside europe. we should be more concerned about integrating the new generations of poles, italians, french, hungarians, lithuanians with our national heritage. because that's what europe has built. this is the only future for europe. there's no other way.
thank you very much, mr. rübig. i think most of us agree that, in general, we should have the vote by 1 p.m. on thursday to get to the airport in a dignified way. i accept that and i will tell the bureau that we will make every effort to start the vote half an hour earlier if necessary, but to end it in a way that respects the dignity of this house. thank you very much, sir.
the next item is the report of ms monica hohlmeier and ms helga stevens, on behalf of the select committee on terrorism, on the findings and recommendations of the select committee on terrorism (2018/2044 ((ini)) (a8-0374/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, when the special committee on terrorism was established a year-and-a-half ago, the remit given to it was, frankly, pretty challenging. it required from its members both an understanding of the overarching issues as well as intricate knowledge of counterterrorism policy. i believe that the draft report the committee has presented more than does justice to these high standards and to its ambitious task. i’d like to express my warmest thanks to ms griesbeck, the chair, to the two co-rapporteurs, ms hohlmeier and ms stevens, and to all the members of the committee. the report, once adopted, will help shape the future framework for our collective counterterrorism efforts for the years to come. i’m very happy that the report reiterates the paramount importance of respect for fundamental rights in all of our security policies. these are indeed a vital part, a foundation, of any effective counterterrorism action. another cross-cutting issue on which we are very much in agreement is the need for member states to deliver on what has been collectively agreed. the commission will be relentless in making sure that all legislation that is adopted is implemented fully and in a timely manner. indeed, our latest security union progress report, published earlier today, gives a full update on all of the ongoing work we are pursuing. it focuses on three areas where we need to maintain momentum. first, we need, as a priority, to deliver on the outstanding security proposals, for example on interoperability, before the end of this parliament’s current term. second, we need to ensure that we enforce measures which have already been agreed, for example on passenger name records (pnr) and on the counter-terrorism directive. and third, we need to continue to build our resilience on issues such as protecting our elections and tackling disinformation – on which we’ve called on the big internet platforms to live up to their commitments – as well as practical issues such as better protecting our public spaces. given that ensuring security requires international cooperation, the report also outlines the progress we’re making in various negotiations and dialogues with third countries. let me come now to the key issues considered in detail in the committee’s report. first, i welcome the emphasis the committee has put on protecting the external borders and the need for efficient information exchange, including maximising the use of existing information systems. this translates directly into the energy this parliament has been putting into the ongoing negotiations on the interoperability proposals. i’m looking forward to the third trilogue later this week and i’m confident that, with the help of the two excellent rapporteurs, mr lenaers and mr melo, a political agreement is within reach. i know parliament is also working very hard on the commission’s proposal to strengthen the european border and coastguard agency. i’d like to thank ms metsola for her commitment on this issue. strong and reliable protection of the external borders is a precondition for ensuring security in our shared space. that said, we should be clear about the need to avoid conflating the challenges of migration, on the one hand, with those of fighting terrorism, on the other. at the same time, we need to make progress on prevention. indeed, this brings me to the second point i want to highlight: on prevention, we are reinforcing our efforts to tackle radicalisation, both online and offline. the report underlines the need to achieve automatic detection and full, fast, systematic and permanent removal of terrorist content online, and calls on the co-legislators to proceed urgently with their work. i very much agree: we should provide a clear harmonised framework, prevent the misuse of hosting-service providers for the dissemination of terrorist content, while at the same time ensuring the full protection of fundamental rights. so i’m happy to report that the justice and home affairs council (jha) last thursday adopted a negotiating mandate and is ready to start discussions with this house. i’m sure that parliament will respond to this by adopting its position so that negotiations can start as soon as possible. i remain fully at the disposal of the rapporteur, mr dalton. i truly hope that we will manage to close this file before the end of the current parliamentary term. the commission also continues to support work being done by member states on the prevention of radicalisation offline, and welcomes the committee report’s concrete recommendations on thematic priorities, including work on education, tackling radicalisation in prisons, and the role of local actors. these recommendations will feed into our ongoing work in this crucial field. third, the committee has devoted a lot of attention, as we’ve just heard, to the victims of terrorism. i fully agree and i recognise that victims need special attention and support. that’s why the commission is committed to making sure that member states fully implement the directive on combating terrorism, which significantly reinforces victims’ rights. in addition, the commission will support the setting-up of a new coordination centre for victims of terrorism, an initiative that originated in this house. this hub of expertise, guidance and support will be up and running next year. fourth, to close down the space in which terrorists operate, the report calls for the swift adoption of the commission proposals aimed at improving cross-border access to electronic evidence. the jha council adopted a general approach on this proposal last week and is ready to launch interinstitutional negotiations. i’d like to echo strongly the urgency expressed in the report. we need progress in order better to support the investigation and prosecution of cross-border crime, including terrorism and cybercrime. fifth, i welcome the importance that the report attaches to fighting terrorist financing. i am happy that parliament has adopted its negotiating mandate on the proposals to facilitate the use of financial information and that the co—legislators will start talks this week. i also share the concerns expressed in the report about an increase in large-scale money laundering, as a source for terrorism financing, through certain banking institutions in the euro area, and i take due note of calls for the establishment of a european union terrorist finance tracking system. personally, i think this is something we need to be pressing ahead with. sixth, on building resilience, the report is ambitious in its recommendations on explosives precursors. i’d like to thank mr mamikins, the rapporteur on our proposals on this subject, for his efforts which resulted in the adoption of his report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) yesterday evening. i’m looking forward to the speedy adoption of the negotiating mandate so that we can start trilogues as soon as possible. the report is also clear that europe needs to do more to tackle cyber-threats, particularly cyber-terrorism. we have collectively done a lot in this respect and i’d like to congratulate the co-legislators, and in particular the rapporteur, ms niebler, for the agreement on the cybersecurity act that was reached yesterday – an important milestone. lastly, allow me to touch on hybrid threats, including disinformation. as discussed in this chamber on a number of occasions, these threats can be particularly damaging for european democracy in the context of upcoming elections, including of course next spring’s elections to this parliament. that’s why on 5 december the commission, together with the high representative, presented an action plan with proposals for a coordinated eu response to the challenge of disinformation. we have made a lot of progress on these security issues. there’s still a lot of work ahead of us. i welcome the fact that we share similar visions of future priorities and on what we need to accomplish in the short term. let me once again thank the special committee for its properly impressive work. we are all counting on this house now to help deliver on this ambitious vision in order to strengthen the security union further and better protect our citizens against terrorism.
thank you very much, commissioner. after such unanimous, very harmonious positions by both the rapporteur members and the european commission, we now move on to the debate.
thank you very much. thank you. we have finished speaking on behalf of the political groups. i have a very big request: virtually every time i've been on stage, i've been overstayed. i understand that sometimes the political groups have to speak for a little longer, but i ask you to respect the time-limit for individual speeches. i'm sorry, but after a few seconds, i'm gonna even take the liberty of turning off the microphone, because we have a pretty tight schedule today.
madam president! the commission was supposed to work for one year. it worked for almost two years. we were expecting 200, 100, maybe 300 revisions. it was a thousand and a half. why would you do that? because some people wanted to keep this report from being published, to block certain work to improve the safety of european citizens. i want to thank both rapporteurs for their work. despite these obstacles, the report is being debated today and will be voted on tomorrow. what's the most important thing about it? first, the extension of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office, the european public prosecutor's office. second, member states declare that action to ban and remove all print and online propaganda is of the utmost importance. and third, it will create its own platform for better information on this subject.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have the impression that we are discussing another project that you have just evaluated. i have a question: how is this agreement between europe and japan to affect small and medium-sized enterprises, which in this agreement are guaranteed to open up the market for them in japan, in the case of european enterprises, and in europe for japanese enterprises?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. signing a trade agreement with japan is important. in times of threats of protectionism, it is beneficial to expand our relationships globally. this also applies to data flows, since we live in a data economy. but it is not possible to add to today's debate and thursday's vote a hasty assessment of japan's compliance with european data protection rules that is a separate track. the european commission has done a good job of establishing the basis for an adequacy finding under article 45 of the gdpr. japan fulfils the essence of personal data protection in accordance with its legal and cultural rules. this is the first such agreement, it is a good example of the promotion of european data protection rules, it is a good example of japan's openness to combine technological development and trade facilitation with high standards of fundamental rights. references in the resolution to issues that are not a problem in japan are unnecessary, because this does not build trust between the union and japan. that's why we're amending the resolution.
madam president, this agreement will improve productivity, accelerate gdp growth and create jobs in the eu. japan is a highly valuable export partner for european farmers and food producers. therefore, we should welcome that the agreement provides increased export opportunities for eu agri-food products. also, the agreement will make it easier for eu companies to provide services on the highly lucrative japanese market. this will give a significant boost to our trade and services. i have always spoken in favour of the eu-japan economic partnership agreement as it will boost trade in goods and services as well as create opportunities for investments between the eu and japan. now i believe that the european parliament should give its consent as fast as possible to this agreement, so that we can focus on its implementation so that everyone can make use of it as soon as possible.
in writing. – i cordially welcome the eu-japan trade deal, which represents a robust instrument and a significant enabler for deepening long—term, strategic cooperation between the eu and japan. the arrangement underlines the continued relevance of rules—based and open international trade. throughout the sede mission to japan last year, i had an opportunity to meet with representatives of the japanese parliament (diet), government, think—tanks and defence industry. we discussed the future of eu—japan cooperation, japan’s contribution to eu missions and operations as well as japan’s ongoing security and defence reforms, north korea’s nuclear weapons program and the tensions in the south and east china seas. the eu and japan share core interests in a broad variety of regional and global economic and security matters. these interests entail addressing barriers to free trade and security challenges through soft mechanisms, close cooperation and enduring friendship.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has been lurking around the idea of a common army for a long time. and again, these subterfuges are seen in subsequent reports. it's not a question of that here, but you can see the case is moving forward. the european union is already competing with nato. of course, he's talking about synergy here, but what we're really dealing with is a conflict, a conflict of loyalties. in the event of separate actions by nato and the european union, the member states of both blocs will have to choose which they would like to be more submissive to. so it's a very dangerous rule. it is clear that the european union no longer respects the sovereignty of the member states. it is already being measured by the member states. what will it be when she has tanks at her disposal? now the tanks are gone. if it doesn't like a country, it can only threaten it with sanctions or expel it from the union. and franz timmermans, who is in this room, once said that he considers the charter of fundamental rights to be more important than democracy, so if citizens in any country want to change the charter of fundamental rights, they will see the union's tanks at their windows. that's the end of it. that's why i'm against it.
mr. chairman, please! i'll start with the critical element: we have two very large reports that have been combined into one debate. and i can only sympathize with ioan paşcu and david mcallister at this point, because how to deal with such a huge problem in one, very short debate. i'm going to focus on just one key thing: the content. in today's debate we are discussing, firstly, the diagnosis, that is, the union's strategic environment, and secondly, the finances, which are badly damaged, both in the common security and defence policy and in the common foreign and security policy, the capacity to ensure the union's security and defence, that is, the fight for the condition of the defence industry, but also pesco the new project the csce missions and operations, but also the relations between the european union and nato and the partnership. it's just too much for one debate, but congratulations to both speakers and thank you.
mr. chairman, please! we should create institutions for politics, not for the display of vanity or vain power. congressman fleckenstein was talking about how the united states is becoming an unpredictable force. he wondered how they affected our security. the construction of nordstream ii has a very destructive impact on the security of one quarter of the european union countries in central europe. i am very curious to see what mr fleckenstein, representing the spd, the party which is the pillar of this construction, which guarantees that it will continue, would say on this subject. this week the committee of the regions, representing our european local authorities, said how much this project threatens europe's energy security policy, how much it is ecologically dangerous, how much it harms the specific interests of specific countries. let's really think about what our security is and take care of it first, and then build different... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. – in year 2017, we witnessed violations of human rights in many parts of the world such as nicaragua, venezuela and cambodia. even in our close neighbourhood, in russia and some countries of the former soviet union, we have observed deepening restrictions of freedom of speech and shrinking of civil society. i am glad that the eu in the long—term, within its diplomatic relations, actively promotes values such as independence of courts, respect for human dignity and rule of law along with economic and political interests. the issues of child marriages, violence towards women and minorities are only a few examples of worldwide worrying problems we need to address. the union is in a unique position due to its political and economic power. great power goes hand in hand with great responsibility. therefore, we must insist on an improvement of the situation of human rights while negotiating with our partners around the globe. the european parliament recognises those who have dedicated their lives to defending human rights. only this week a ukrainian political activist, imprisoned in russia, oleg sentsov, received the sakharov prize.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we are here to discuss our association agreement with ukraine and i will come to this in a moment, but i want to start with a mention of two other issues that the rapporteur also referred to. first of all, i would like to mention once again the awarding of the sakharov prize to oleg sentsov, and let me join this house in calling for his liberation, as we have been doing consistently throughout these years. i would also like to update you on our recent discussions about the situation in the sea of azov. yesterday, foreign minister pavlo klimkin was our guest at the foreign affairs council in brussels. we discussed together ways to increase support to the regions of south-east ukraine, and today the commission has made available the first eur 500 million of the new macro-financial assistance programme to ukraine. i think these are clear gestures that show the ukrainian people in reality the solidarity of the european union and the consistency of our policy. we are now looking into further projects to support ukrainian regions affected by the situation in the azov sea, in close coordination with our member states, and also with the european financial institutions. last week in milan, at the ministerial council of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) i had meetings with both pavlo klimkin and the russian foreign minister, sergey lavrov. i took the opportunity to stress very clearly that we do not recognise the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and that the current tensions are a direct consequence of russia’s violation of the osce founding principles of international law. we expect russia immediately to release the vessels and their crew. international law obliges the russian federation to ensure the unhindered and free passage of all vessels through the kerch strait. russia’s behaviour violates international law and is causing economic damage not just to ukraine but also to ships sailing under eu flags. we have already discussed this issue here in this chamber in october. i remember that well, and your report, mr gahler, is also vocal on this, and rightly so. now let me focus on the main subject of our discussion, the report on ukraine’s implementation of the association agreement. five years have passed since 2014 and we share the report’s assessments that in these five years and despite very difficult circumstances, ukraine has passed four important reforms to deliver on its citizens’ aspirations. i will have an opportunity to discuss progress directly with prime minister groysman and his government at the association council next monday in brussels. i would like to thank the eu-ukraine parliamentary association committee for its work on monitoring the implementation of the association agreement. over the past year, many of the reforms demanded by the ukrainian people have started to take shape. new laws have been adopted on decentralisation, intellectual property rights, the environment, food safety and energy, as well as a new company law. a number of important reforms have been launched on pensions, healthcare and education. public administration and decentralisation reforms are being implemented and there has been progress with reform in the areas of the judiciary and of anti-corruption measures, albeit at a slower pace. a landmark bill on national security was adopted in june – and i have discussed this several times with both the president and the prime minister in kiev – introducing the principle of parliamentary oversight over the security sector. now it needs to be followed up with secondary legislation, including on reform of the security sector. but the report also makes clear that many challenges remain, and that was, i believe, a clear shared understanding among all of us. the fight against corruption is probably the most urgent issue. i share your views. we are looking forward to the high anti-corruption court becoming operational. all anti-corruption institutions must be fully independent and free from political pressures, and this is also true for prosecutors. the national anti-corruption bureau of ukraine is carrying on a very delicate task and it is essential that high-level corruption cases are prosecuted, including those relating to the large-scale banking fraud unveiled in 2014. we’ve also made clear that electronic declarations should be a tool to fight corruption, and not an obstacle for civil society organisations that are working to make ukraine a better place. so we’ve asked for the repeal of the requirement that anti-corruption activists and foreign members of supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises make e-declarations of assets. ukraine is making progress in strengthening democratic institutions and human rights. however, we are worried about the attacks against civil society activists and journalists, which are becoming more and more frequent. one such case was the acid attack against kateryna handzyuk, who passed away last month, and we expect these incidents not only to be investigated swiftly but also, and most importantly, to be prevented in the future. one of ukraine’s main assets is the strength of its civil society. i’ve seen this first-hand many times in kiev. we will continue to work on the side of all those who have decided to engage personally for ukraine’s common good. we also encouraged ukraine to make the best use of international consultation mechanisms when preparing important legislative acts, for example those affecting the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. it is important always to take into account the recommendations of specialised international bodies such as the office for democratic institutions and human rights at the osce and the venice commission of the council of europe. we, the european union, will continue to be on ukraine’s side, to end the conflict in the east, to end the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and also to deliver on the aspirations of all ukrainian citizens. the association agreement is the most ambitious agreement that the european union has ever developed with any partner country, and since 2014 the european union has invested in ukraine more than in any other country in the world. we have put together the biggest support package in our history. so we want ukraine to succeed. we’re working to make sure that ukraine succeeds, making its own choices but with our support, in spite of all the difficulties and obstacles along the way. i would like to thank parliament once again for the report, for your constant focus on ukraine, and for the progress that we are able to achieve together.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, considering the political context of the most recent russian aggression, the eu should fight even more for the stabilisation of the ukrainian economy. i would like to underline the need for both sides to open their markets for goods and services based on predictable and enforceable trade rules. the association agreement aims to boost trade between the eu and ukraine by gradually cutting tariffs and bringing ukraine’s rules in line with the eu’s in certain industrial sectors and on agricultural products. we therefore welcome the increase in trade volume and the diversification of ukrainian exports to the eu. this trade liberalisation and regulatory approximation is the optimal instrument for bringing ukraine closer to the eu and contributing to trade facilitation, a better business and investment climate, and the sustainable economic development of ukraine. also, we need to underline that the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) is a part of the reform process based on good governance and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me first congratulate mr gahler on an excellent report. i think this is exactly what we need here – a very balanced report on successes and some failures as well. this is certainly an inspiration here, both for us and for our ukrainian friends to intensify efforts in implementing the association agreement. some colleagues may not be fully satisfied. we know the areas that require more effort – these are the fight against corruption, establishing an independent judiciary. but we have to remember that ukraine is implementing the association agreement under extremely difficult circumstances – the country is experiencing war, part of its territory is occupied, recently we have had another act of aggression by the russian federation in the sea of azov, and, finally, the country is also the target of an intensified propaganda war from the russian federation. so for that reason i think, and having in mind the fact that next year is the election year, that we have to intensify our efforts here in parliament and also in the council and the commission in order to provide all the necessary assistance to the pro-european government of ukraine and, in the first place, to pro-european citizens of ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. i would like to thank mr gahler for his important report. i think we can sign him. we should talk about ukraine's progress in implementing the association agreement, because there is such progress, but we must talk about russian aggression in the sea of azov, the blockade of ukrainian ports, the disruption of the traffic of sea vessels going to berdyaansk and mariupol - important ukrainian ports that are a window to the world of ukraine and that allow the export of ukrainian goods. and of course, this kind of aggression, this russian blockade, is to be condemned. we in the european parliament recently adopted a resolution on the azov sea, and we warned against this situation. we were right. that is the reality, and that is why i am calling on the high representative to take decisive action to stop russian expansion in this region.
it is true that the situation is urgent, we cannot leave parliament. and the mps won't be able to get in, so i don't know what's going to happen with the speakers in this next debate. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2018.
the next item is the report by henna virkkunen, mariana-jeana marinescu and pavla telička, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, on the establishment of the connecting europe facility (com2018) 0438 - c8-0255/2018 - 2018/0228 (cod)) (a8-0409/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, ms virkkunen, mr marinescu and mr telička, the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on industry, research and energy and the other committees, such as the committee on regional development, for progressing this file in such a swift and efficient manner. the connecting europe facility (cef) is key for europe’s connectivity and efficiency in the strategic transport, energy and digital sector, to provide tangible benefits to european citizens and businesses and enable trade and exchanges across borders. the current cef programme is now supporting 1200 investment actions, corresponding to a total investment of eur 54 billion. this is a tool that delivers jobs and growth, and we want to further reinforce it. i am glad to note that the key objectives of cef are part of the report, and let me recall them for the three pillars of the cef programme: transport, energy and digital. first, for cef transport the first objective is to deliver on the commitment to complete the core network by 2030 and move towards completing the comprehensive network by 2050, thanks to investment, with priority on cross-border sections and missing links. this will provide better access to businesses and citizens from all eu regions to markets and development opportunities. in other words, it allows all member states to capitalise on the benefits of the biggest single market in the world. second, to support the transition to smart, sustainable, inclusive, safe and secure mobility. for this we propose a strong and a broad emphasis on the modernisation of the transport system. this is absolutely key to deliver on our vision zero – zero fatalities, zero pollution and zero paper, to save lives and provide the mobility services that citizens and businesses need. third, to promote a streamlining of the investment process with visibility on the pipeline and coherent eligibility criteria, we propose an efficient use of cef, investeu and the regional development funds to address the significant needs for investment to complete the ten-ts. with streamlining we are overcoming the fragmented approach to financing and maximising the investment value delivered. with respect to the cohesion envelope, we need to ensure a balance between sufficient predictability of funds for each cohesion member state and maximisation of eu value added, as well as a sound financial management with a ‘use it or lose it’ principle. so let me clearly point out that the transfer of a part of the cohesion envelope to cef is in the interest of the projects concerned because, under cef, such projects can be co-financed to the tune of 85%, compared to only 70% in case of no transfer. fourth, to promote synergies between transport, energy and the digital sector as much as possible, to make our connectivity modern and fit for emerging needs. all three sectors are increasingly interrelated so joint projects are needed. we propose integrated, innovative approaches to mobility, combining efficient transport, clean energy and digitalisation. fifth, in line with the action plan on military mobility adopted in march 2018, we propose to support the critical development of civilian dual-use transport infrastructure to ensure an efficient use of taxpayers’ money. so let me stress now the objectives for cef energy. cef will increasingly focus on electricity while keeping the window open for gas. in electricity, the objective is to complete the ten-e electricity grid through the development of projects of common interest, and for the first time, we will open cef towards supporting cross-border cooperation and renewable energy. this will allow the completion of the internal market to foster eu competitiveness and facilitate the clean energy transition while increasing energy security. the new cef will thus complement the legislative framework proposed and, to a great extent, already agreed under the clean energy for all europeans packages. last but not least, the objectives of the cef digital. cef will contribute to the deployment of very high capacity digital network featuring a high level of security to support all innovative digital services, including connected mobility and other services of public interest. in addition, it will contribute to ensure that all the main socio-economic entities, such as schools, hospitals, transport hubs, providers of public services and enterprises have access to future broadband connections by 2025. lastly, it will contribute to the overall connectivity of the eu, including that of the outermost regions to the internet. i’m looking forward to hearing your views on these issues, which are of specific importance for you.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. as rapporteur for the opinion on the report of the committee on transport and tourism on the establishment of the cef, i have to say that the european commission has introduced the decarbonisation requirement into the text of the regulation, which i opposed. i remind you that decarbonization is not in the paris agreement. the regional development committee didn't even agree to my amendment to support clean coal technology. failure to take this amendment into account could significantly reduce energy security in the european union. the commission's text is also controversial because of the transfer of funds from the cohesion fund. in my view, we have reached a compromise which the transport committee has substantially amended, raising the amount to eur 10 billion (chapter i, article 4 of the regulation), and it draws that eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund. the commission's proposal is, i believe, unacceptable to the member states, especially those which benefit most from the cohesion fund. poland, for example, will lose out, including regions such as lublin, where i come from.
please, this is not a blue-card question. this is a point of order. you do of course have the right to put a point of order, but it is not a blue-card question. we will continue our discussion.
it was more of a comment than a point of order. i think we'll continue after all. we are safe here, nothing dramatic is happening in the building itself, but it is really necessary to express our deep regret for the victims and also to condemn this attack. i also share the view of the honourable member that we should really oppose terrorism, and indeed terrorism of any kind, including islamist terrorism, with all our might.
some of my colleagues have doubts whether we should continue the talks. i have to tell you about my youth. i lived through a time of war in my country, and we had a saying at that time, you have to do your thing. we have to do our job, no matter what the circumstances, which is why i think we should continue these discussions.
i am sorry for your loss, but i think - and i think that is the wish of most of my colleagues - that we should continue this debate. unfortunately, we can't help the victims or help law enforcement catch this individual. all we can do as meps - i think the european defence fund is the topic of the hour - is to increase europe's defence both internally and externally and to defend democracy.
in writing. the continuation of the connecting europe facility is excellent news for the people of poland, and especially the carpathian region it is an excellent tool for the development of the transport, energy and digital networks. the european union needs modern and efficient infrastructure to contribute to further integration of the union and to better communication between citizens and businesses from all member states and regions. trans-european networks and full cross-border cooperation are essential for the proper functioning of the single market. the compromise includes all my amendments, which means that the transport corridor from katowice through rzeszow will be extended to the border crossing with ukraine in medica. it's new investment and jobs, and it's also an important trade route. the possibility of seeking co-financing from regional airports is also included in the regulation, which is an important and good innovation. i shall vote in favour of the report as it stands.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think tonight shows us all how important security and defense matters are. democracy and europe must be able to defend themselves, both against those who attack from outside and against those who want to bring this external war within the union. as we know, there are armed conflicts in the immediate vicinity of the union, beyond its southern and eastern borders. the dream of perpetual peace and universal disarmament is sadly being put off until the future, and our most important defence partner the usa is calling on european countries to step up their efforts to strengthen their defence capabilities. the changing political context, as we know, is making the member states of the union see the need to strengthen cooperation on common security. the public debate is increasingly dominated by the notions of european strategic autonomy and the european army. president macron and chancellor merkel also spoke about this in the european parliament. however, it should not be forgotten that at this stage these are only ideas, concepts still very theoretical, and their implementation is very far away. european security still depends mainly on the membership of the union in nato, and european security and defence policy initiatives can complement rather than replace it. but we should make sure that this complement becomes more and more important. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's defence policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's defence policy. one example of the community's approach to this issue is the european defence fund, the first comprehensive eu programme to fund joint defence research and development. we have come to the itre report with the experience of previous pilot programmes such as the european defence industrial development programme. the achievements of this document include the establishment of a minimum number of member states participating in european projects financed, the opening of the fund to companies from non-eu partner countries and the exclusion of mid-cap companies from the sme group. from the outset, we agreed in the majority that the biggest eu added value for edf should be to make member states' spending on defence more efficient, mainly by reducing the unnecessary duplication of arms produced. to increase the competitiveness of european defence industries, we have all signed up to the principle of promoting innovation, including in particular so-called breakthrough technologies. i believe that, together with the counter-rapporteurs representing the various political groups, we have managed to work out a satisfactory compromise on the most contentious articles, such as the rules on participation in the fund by companies controlled by allied third countries. it was important to me to extend the definition of european enterprises to include these entities, as they employ workers and pay taxes in the member states of the union. i regret that we have not found a satisfactory provision for all groups in article 7 concerning the ethical review of funded projects. i am personally pleased that a number of the amendments i proposed in my preliminary solution have been accepted by the other rapporteurs. i am thinking, among other things, of including among the objectives of the fund the extension of forms of cooperation between european companies or the introduction of provisions increasing the flexibility of the budget for research and development. i expect that we will have a period of intense negotiations with the council in the coming months, but i am optimistic that we will be able to work out a compromise. at this stage i would like first of all to thank the co-rapporteurs and the austrian presidency for their successful cooperation and to ask the members to support our common position in the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by saying that with the establishment of the european defence fund – for those who remember our previous steps in the edidp (european defence industrial development programme) and cooperation in research and defence – we are taking really great steps forward: more cooperation in the defence sector, better efficiency in how the money is being spent, and all of this has been done at a really unprecedented speed. i want very much again to thank the european parliament, because you were very supportive of the direction taken. i would most importantly like to thank the rapporteur, madame grossetête, for your important work – especially, for example, on the eligibility criteria that was mentioned here. i also want to agree on the importance of governance. as you know, we proposed direct management by the commission of the fund. so let’s keep this momentum going: we count on the constructive and rapid negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission. we need an early agreement. by early agreement, i mean before the end of february 2019, if you want the funds to be adopted under this parliament. so, i very much trust that tomorrow you will give the mandate to move on the proposal to negotiations, and again i thank you very much for your cooperation. thank you very much for your discussion in this difficult moment.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm a little sorry that the commissioner didn't appreciate my work on this report, too. i would like to say that i too, like my colleague mr polčák (who is no longer with us, i believe), once had doubts about the usefulness of establishing such a fund, but i have also changed my mind and believe that it is extremely important that we strengthen the defence capabilities of the union through this kind of cooperation and community support for our defence industry. i also wanted to refer to what mrs valero said, that she expected ethical issues to be raised in the tripartite negotiations alongside issues such as intellectual property rights and access to third country controlled entities. we've really spent a lot of time on ethical issues, and it's not true that -- as you said -- weapons of mass destruction or autonomous drones and killer robots have not been considered by us. i think and i hope that this european defence fund, if we look back on it in a few years, will contribute to these objectives that we are talking about, and on this particular day i have to say that i have the feeling that always after the next attacks, and this is some part of the war that is brought from outside to europe, we offer condolences, we join in the pain with the families, we mourn the victims, but finally we should do something more, strengthening our defence capacity. we must defend ourselves so that such events do not happen again and so that there is peace on our external borders. i think this european defence fund will help.
in writing. the security and defence situation is changing not only within the eu but also beyond our continent. the citizens of the union therefore expect, and rightly so, that it will take a much greater responsibility for security. this is reflected in the various proposals being prepared by the european commission in consultation with the ep. one of the most important is the idea of creating a european defence fund, which is to have a pool of €35 billion between 2021 and 2027. for the first time, the eu budget will therefore be allocated mainly to defence research and development and to improving military mobility in europe. i think it's the right decision. the european parliament will have to scrutinise and monitor the situation closely to ensure that the additional substantial funds are used to improve the eu's defence capabilities and not simply to meet the needs of individual eu countries. in particular, defence research programmes should be specified and those that would eliminate the european union's technological backwardness should be supported. as regards improving military mobility, it is equally important to remove the legal and organisational barriers that make it very difficult for soldiers to move around europe, in addition to the necessary investments focused on cross-border crossings.
in writing. we have set the horizon europe programme with important tasks: bridging the innovation gap between eastern and western europe and reducing the brain drain. in recent years, 35,000 scientists and 570,000 people with higher education have left poland alone. in europe, the number of migrants has already exceeded 4 million. when the travel of scientists is conducive to europe's engagement with the world's best research, that's a big plus. but more often than not, the union is losing talent forever. the uneven migration of researchers within the union leads to a concentration of talent in only selected centres. brain drain is one of the reasons for the growing innovation and scientific gap in europe. the countries that joined the eu after 2004, which were hit hardest by brain drain, receive less than 5% of the eu's funding for science and innovation. so half the eu is not participating in the advanced research that we're co-funding, and they're not experiencing the market benefits that come from it. horizon europe has to change that! it is good that the programme has a new part to strengthen the european research area and to spread scientific excellence in countries where it is lacking. parliament proposes €4.8 billion for these actions. i call for this budget to be maintained. i also warn against an imbalance in support for science and industry. redirecting too much funding to technological innovation at the expense of limited funding for clean science is short-sighted. without adequate support for universities, europe's innovation aspirations will remain on paper.
cousin of oleg sentsov. – mr president, i am natalya kaplan and i am a cousin of the ukrainian political prisoner oleg sentsov. first of all, he is a film director and a man with a capital ‘m’. he was an economist, but he never did any business. as a young man, he was enthusiastic about cybersports, and all the time he was reproached that computer games are not very serious and that he should start thinking about something else. but he started making his living playing games, bought a computer club and organised a team of cyber-sportsmen. but, slowly, he started retreating from this sport and watching more and more films. and then he understood that he had a lot to say and should start making movies. we became friends when oleg was an adult. when we were both adults, his first short film, a perfect day for bananafish, he filmed with his daughter alina playing one of the characters. oleg called this film educational: he just wanted to learn the process of making films and he showed it only to his inner circle. he was a very goal-oriented person with an acute sense of justice. he made his first film without any education, experience, connections or budget, and his first film, gamer, he financed himself. funding was insufficient, but he succeeded in organising the whole process on the basis of enthusiasm. many of his professional colleagues looked at him as yet another graphomaniac, and nobody believed that he would make a good movie. the result was, however, that he did a tour of the world and cinematographers perceived him as a fully-fledged colleague. in 2013, he started to work on his second film, rhinoceros, the casting was done and he was planning to start filming, but the work was halted as a result of the events on maidan. practically from the first days of maidan, he joined automaidan – the activists who brought food, medical supplies and all necessary supplies to maidan by car, and blocked the roads. oleg was an office manager. he was in charge of the logistics of automaidan, he coordinated people, directed everybody, and was perceived as a very good organiser by the people united by a common idea. at that time, we started communicating with oleg much more often. he had no doubt in the victory of the activists. then he went back to his native crimea, but he couldn’t relax there. little green men appeared on the peninsula, and he once again joined the resistance. oleg started bringing food, medical supplies and water to the ukrainian resistance. when the little green men allowed the ukrainian military to leave crimea, he organised their leave. in march 2014, russia applauded putin, praising him for the annexation of crimea, and ukraine was counting its dead and disappeared at the time. the repressive machine started operating in crimea. it was well orchestrated and already worked well in all the occupied territories inside russia, and especially in chechnya. in april 2014, an anti-terrorist department was created in crimea. where there is a department, it is automatically thought that there should be terrorists, and russian law—enforcement bodies started catching so-called ‘terrorists’ in order to earn new stars on their epaulettes. on 10 may, fsb people entered oleg’s apartment; apart from him, only his 11—year-old daughter alina was there. they searched his apartment in front of his daughter and confiscated train tickets from simferopol and kiev and back, along with a letter with a poem in ukrainian, the computer, money saved for filming and some dvds. they took two classic films from his collection: fascism as it is and a history of the third reich in colour. thus they were trying to prove that oleg had fascist and nazis opinions. the fsb alleged that oleg had been involved with the ukrainian organisation ‘right sector’. it was this organisation that russian propaganda used as a horror story for crimeans, saying how they would destroy the russians. the irony is that oleg himself is a russian speaker and considers himself as a russian. in the same case, three more people were detained, historian alexei chirnii, the photographer and lawyer gennadi afanasiev, and a left-wing activist member of the environmental movement in the crimea, anti-fascist alexander kolchenko. chirnii and afanasiev testified against oleg. they were tortured, beaten and threatened with more violence. oleg sentsov was also tortured. the official documents indicated that he was detained on 11 may. it actually happened on 10 may. for a whole day, the fsb officers tried to beat a testimony out of him, against the ukrainian authorities, against other people. when oleg refused, he was told they would then make him the organiser of a terrorist cell and that he would go to a prison camp for 20 years. oleg refused and that was the sentence he was given. at trial, afanasiev recanted his testimony, stating that he had given it under torture, but the court did not investigate the statement, in fact ignoring the crime. this was also the case with sentsov’s testimony. he repeatedly claimed that he had been tortured, and related what they had done to him. he had been beaten, choked and threatened with rape with a police baton, but the torture case was never opened. the answer came that sentsov had traces of beatings as a result of sado-masochistic inclinations. after his arrest, the lawyers and consuls couldn’t find him anywhere. for two weeks, the hired lawyers tried to gain access to him, but they were hiding him, saying that he was in transit or in another pre-trial prison. and all the time he was in custody the ukrainian consuls could not be allowed to visit him because he was a russian citizen – allegedly, after the occupation he did not renounce his russian citizenship under the official procedure and so automatically became a russian citizen. sentsov himself said: ‘i am not a serf. i cannot be transferred with the earth. i was, and remain, a citizen of ukraine.’ there is no russian passport in the criminal case, although oleg was repeatedly forced to get one. it was only before he was sent to the colony in yakutia, to the north of russia, that the ukrainian consuls were admitted to see oleg. it happened just once. in yakutia, which is 9 000 kilometres away from his native crimea, he was kept for a year. he was hidden away from his relatives, from any possibility of their visiting him. actually, oleg did not want his relatives to visit him, because it would have been really difficult for him emotionally. after the pussy riot action held in yakutia, oleg was promptly transferred to the arctic circle, to the city of labytnangi, and at the moment oleg is in one of the northernmost prisons in the world. this is a strict regime colony on the yamalo peninsula. to send a southerner to the arctic is a separate torture. very soon, oleg began to lose his hair and his teeth began to crumble, but oleg is a person who cannot give up and just sit quietly. he is a fighter by nature, and the only method of fighting that he saw was a hunger strike. on 14 may 2018, he declared a hunger strike. he agreed to stop it only when all the ukrainian political prisoners were released from russian prisons and prisons in the occupied crimea, and by the most conservative estimates that amounted to 79 people. during his hunger strike, oleg’s already undermined health began to deteriorate rapidly. his relatives feared for his life, and knowing who oleg is, they understood that it was impossible to convince him. he would go to the very end – to the deadly end. all his internal organs suffered. the liver had enlarged, they removed a kidney stone, and he developed problems with his intestines and stomach. his internal organs did not receive enough oxygen, hypoxia began, and the effects reached the brain. in order to avoid force-feeding, oleg agreed to medication maintenance, but his condition was still worsening every day. on 5 october, after 145 days of his hunger strike, sentsov announced its termination. the reason was a statement by the officers that they would begin force—feeding him. oleg understood the hunger strike would stop anyway, but he had a choice: to be tortured again, to lie fettered with a tube stuck up his nose, or to stop on his own. in order to avoid additional suffering, he chose the second option. during all the 145 days, not a single ukrainian political prisoner had been released, but this does not mean that oleg lost. thanks to his act, the whole world spoke about repression by russia and oleg drew great attention to the topic of ukrainian political prisoners – and that is his victory. especially for this occasion, he wrote an address to everyone here. i will now read it for you. ‘ladies and gentlemen, i cannot be present in this room right now, but you can hear my words, even if someone else is saying them. the word is the main tool of a person, and often his only tool, especially when everything else has been taken from him. in a word you can cure, you can maim, you can save, and you can kill by commanding fire. there are people whose words mean a lot. there are people vested with power and opportunities, but they use the power of their words in different ways. you can call for acceptance and surrender, but on the contrary you can call for resistance and for fighting, even when there is no chance to survive but only a chance to die. but it is not so important how long you live, but how. no matter when you die, more important is how and for what. you can be a simple peasant, less than 18 years old, and then with your own words raise up a whole country to resist, accept humiliation and martyrdom, and then stay forever in history under the name of joan. or you can live as a bloody ruler to a ripe old age, tirelessly uttering a flood of false words that your people would supposedly admire, and world leaders would even shake hands with you, not wanting to quarrel with you, but after your death your name will be cursed right away, and the word ‘bokassa’ will become a common word. modernity is often not fair. history is always fair. over time, everything falls into place and is called by its proper name. and someone rushes down to the garbage heap under the curses of the liberated people, along with the fragments of monuments to himself. and someone who was persecuted and almost despised by us, on the contrary, after death, takes a worthy place in world history, and his name is given to streets, ships and awards. to take an example: andrei sakharov is quite a person to be compared to. being placed anywhere near him is too great an honour for me. he raised the bar so high for education and talent, intelligence and courtesy, dignity and humanism. but i hope that i will can still do something that will make me feel i have deserved this award. thank you.’ (the house accorded natalya kaplan, cousin of the sakharov prize winner, a standing ovation)
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to point out that there has been a breach of the mandate of members of the european parliament. a member of parliament cannot be deprived of his liberty, and locking a member of parliament in a building is deprivation of liberty. a man can't be taken from his freedom without a court order, so if he's willing to go out and risk his life, then i think it's absolutely unforgivable to forcibly lock someone up in prison, because what happens is that a madman with a gun runs free, and honest people are locked up in a prison building. it can't be like this.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the transformation, including the climate change, that is happening in europe, unfortunately, is mostly at the expense of ordinary people, and that is why they reject this transformation, and that is why the streets of french cities look like this, where the yellow vests are protesting. this protest isn't just about the fuel price hike. he was convinced that we were dealing with a profound injustice and a separation of the european elites from the fate of ordinary people. president macron, in his first instinct when these protests started, said that if you can't afford more expensive fuel, buy an electric car, knowing full well that this car is twice as expensive as the standard one. this is a bit like the 18th century, and the french queen, marie antoinette, said that when she heard that the peasants in the countryside were starving because they had no bread, she suggested that they eat cookies. this separation of the european elites from the common people is going badly, and this is not only seen in the streets of french cities, but also in many other western european countries. the situation is quite different in the countries of central and eastern europe, in a country like mine, poland, where, as you have rightly noted, the climate summit is taking place. this climate summit can bring positive results under two conditions: first, if co2 reductions are adapted to the level of development of individual countries; second, if the balance of emissions and removals is taken into account.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. this is the right time, the right debate. i spent the first two days of this week at cop24 in katowice, my home region, and yesterday, among other things, we talked about this in the european union pavilion. it's about how to convince all citizens that our energy transition makes sense, and it makes sense to them. the point is that all of our actions have to be for them and with them, and not against them, because sometimes they don't take it well, and you have to take that into account. a good example of this, which we were just talking about yesterday at cop24 in katowice, is the creation of this new fund for just transformation for regions that are transforming from mining to regions with modern industry. it is very important to create this opportunity for the citizens of these regions, that is, forty-one regions in the twelve countries of the european union. i have proposed five billion euros of additional money in the budget, additional, uncombined, for this kind of fund, and it is worthwhile for the european commission to prepare a legislative proposal and it is worthwhile to appeal to the member states. we need the citizens to be with us if we are to win the fight to protect the climate, and the european union is leading the way.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i'm a little surprised by the title of the debate itself, which is "involving workers and citizens". we oppose or we dismiss workers from the public. i would prefer it to be "involving citizens" as producers and citizens as consumers because we are in these two basic functions, and if there are negative effects such as price and cost increases, citizens rebel as consumers, the "yellow vests" we are talking about is a revolt of citizens of consumers, not citizens of producers. at the same time, this kind of approach to these two categories means that there is some higher class that has more consciousness, that is the managerial class, or perhaps the political class, the rich people, because citizen usually means simply citizen, the worker as an employer, so from this point of view, i think that our debate should generally go in this direction. a safer planet: if people understand that a safer planet is a safer city, a safer planet is a safer future for my family, a safer planet is something that we can all benefit from together, then it seems that our goal will be achieved. and the transition itself -- what we're guaranteed is change: old is the transition period, people's awareness that this change in the right direction is needed.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is very clear that transition to a climate-neutral economy is the only possible way forward. inaction is not an option. we owe it to ourselves, our children and the generations to come. we remain committed to involving workers and citizens in order to achieve a just transition. this means an effective transition in terms of emission cuts, as well as increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency. it also means a transition that leaves no region and no citizen behind. this transition is a clear opportunity for europe to take leadership in innovative, sustainable solutions that will boost our long-term competitiveness and create jobs. it is an opportunity for green growth, which we should capture. however, to be accepted by the public this transition should bring benefits and opportunities to everyone – those in the cities and those in rural areas. we need a transition that is sustainable, in line with the sustainable development goals (sdgs), and that provides a cushion and a safety net for those most affected. we should have the courage to acknowledge that this change will come at a cost, a cost which, in the short to medium term, might not be equally distributed between regions, between sectors or, most importantly, between people. that is why, in designing our policy response, social policy considerations should be included from the start in order to limit the deepening of inequalities. we also need sound data and evidence to underpin our policies. i am working with eurostat to see how this can best be supported. also, the next edition of our employment and social developments in europe (esde) report will provide an analysis of social and green investment and their role in growth, sustainability and resilience. the report will be published next july. moreover, following methodology discussions, eurostat, together with the european investment bank, has issued guidance on how to treat energy performance contracts in national accounts, so that they can have a favourable impact on investment in energy-efficiency measures. the european union cannot achieve its ambitious climate agenda and fair transition alone: we need the support of the member states and the cooperation of the social partners’ representatives. and we need buy-in because, through their daily consumer lifestyle and their daily choices, everyone can contribute to the greening of the economy. the commission communication on long-term strategy on greenhouse gas emissions, adopted just two weeks ago, outlines a comprehensive cross-policy response that will guide us in the next steps.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, as mentioned before, the transition to low-carbon economies will be challenging for certain sectors, regions and also for communities, but it will also be a chance and it will present new opportunities. it is important to find a way to match the opportunities to the challenges, as well as to ensure an adequate level of support for those who really need it. the process will need to look at the environmental, social and the economic aspects together as part of a whole and ensure the broad involvement of all stakeholders.
in writing. the transition to a low-carbon economy over a few decades is a challenge for all countries. the decarbonisation of an economy that remains heavily dependent on fossil fuels entails, among other things, far-reaching industrial and technological changes. it requires the development of new energy patterns, new business models and the need to produce and consume in a closed loop. the consensus is that implementing the paris agreement requires a profound and rapid change in the way we produce, transport and consume. from the perspective of workers, the transformation will profoundly transform the labour market, bringing with it both new risks and new opportunities. the sectors and regions most dependent on coal may be more affected by the changes than others. it is therefore crucial to ensure a 'just transition'. failure to involve workers and citizens in the debate on the transition to a low-carbon economy could result in social unrest, such as the one we are currently witnessing in france. it is becoming increasingly clear that the costs of climate policy are borne by the poorest citizens. they are the ones who are suffering from the rising fuel and energy prices, because they cannot afford to buy green cars or to improve the energy efficiency of their homes and apartments. the costs of the green transition must be distributed fairly and the process of implementing it must involve dialogue with employers, workers and citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the package we are discussing today aims at filling an important gap that exists in the taxation system of the european union, and especially in the member states: namely, a large proportion of revenues produced by internet companies, digital companies, are not taxed where the value is created. this principle that taxes should be paid where the value is created has been a long-established principle in the second half of the 20th century in all developed countries, and it was aimed at reflecting the traditional system of industry where companies were physically present in individual countries, and that was the reason for them to pay taxes. however, the emergence of the digital market and digital services poses important challenges to this traditional model of taxation, because it turns out that digital companies can provide digital services actually with very little or no physical presence in the country of destination. for this reason, the commission and many experts from the member states rightly noted that a large part of revenues created by internet international giants who provide digital services in europe is simply not taxed. the report on the council directive laying down rules relating to the corporate taxation of a significant digital presence is devised as a permanent solution, given the fact that international efforts to establish a global solution for digital taxation being conducted under the auspices of the oecd are not progressing at a satisfactory pace. in this situation, even though we are all – and the european commission of course as well –interested in developing a common global solution and are prepared to work in the framework of the oecd to achieve such a solution because the prospects for getting this global solution are very slim and this task is difficult (it will take much more time than expected), the eu decided to come up with its own proposal. this proposal is, first of all, focused on the definition of the digital services. these services differ from the traditional provision of services in three important aspects. first of all, these digital businesses are allowed to provide services in the country without any physical presence. secondly, they rely heavily on intangible assets such as user data. third, the value in those services is created because of the users’ use of respective digital internet networks. so these are the three characteristics that distinguish digital services from the traditional services. as a result, the commission proposes that, instead of using a physical presence, there should be a definition of a significant digital presence, which is defined in the draft directive by three criteria which are well explained in the document, and on the basis of these three criteria the countries will be able to define the revenues that accrue to that country and these revenues will be taxed as regular corporate taxes.
mr. chairman, please! you don't understand that taxes are transferable. all taxes imposed on the baker are paid by the bread eater, and all taxes imposed on the digital service provider are ultimately paid by the consumer of the digital service. we are seeing cars and buildings being smashed by angry yellow vests in france because of excessive fuel taxes. you want to do the same thing online? you want people to find out, come in here and knock your blue chairs over and throw you out of your blue chairs? well, keep it up. you want to reap where you have not sown, to tax where it is not necessary. we need to cut taxes for the rest of them. if there's any inequality in taxation, let's lower it for the rest of us, not raise it, what's wrong with somebody making money. what's wrong with having so many free services on the internet is that your regulations don't reach there. what you want to do is to take the internet, step by step, and turn it into what we have now, the bureaucratic, taxed, inefficient economy that you funded the europeans to build.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission can well understand the expectations and also the anger of many members present here. our strategy, which you support, has three objectives. objective one: to achieve an international agreement, not on valentine's day but within the next two years. to build up pressure and in the event that there is no agreement at global level, to have our own solution, we have made our proposal and we are working to get it unanimously adopted. at the beginning there were 10, 12, 14 member states, and at the last week's meeting there were 24 of the 28 member states. four member states are still on the road to unanimity. my colleague mr moscovici will do everything in his power to reach a consensual solution with all the member states in the coming weeks. and thirdly, the principle of unanimity is a general problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am expressly echoing the views of mr giegold.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as regards digital taxation i would like to reiterate that for the presidency this is not the end of the road. there was, unfortunately, no unanimity, but there is enough support to continue work. a meeting at technical level will take place next week. in preparing the meeting we are maintaining close contact with the incoming presidency to ensure a smooth hand over of this work. as regards majority voting, as i’ve said before, if there was an initiative on the table it would be examined in the european council, in accordance with the procedure foreseen by the treaties.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, i know this is a very difficult time to make a summary of the discussion, but let me but just raise two or three points. first, there is a lot of misunderstanding in this debate because we have two different proposals on the table – two completely different commission proposals and some of the speakers have completely mixed them up and discussed them as one. this is not the proper approach. second, to all those who question the rationale behind the need to tax digital companies, let me give you just one example. google representatives admitted at the hearing before the tax 3 committee that they pay tax, profit tax, corporate profit tax in the us to the amount of usd 6.5 billion, and for the same number of users in europe they pay only usd 200 million a year. that means they pay usd 32 per user in the us and usd 0.4 but user in europe. this is, of course, a question of fairness. why should europe give up such a large proportion of the tax due here? on the point as to whether we should go ahead of the oecd, i see no conflict between us working on a solution – a permanent solution – and the oecd making some progress. of course, if there is a global solution, we are going to wind up our proposal. there is no question about that; we have to remember that. and finally, let me tell you that this is not against american companies. this is only because the american companies are definitely on top of all digital companies. they are on the top because they make most of their profits outside the us, which is not taxed. that’s why they are so heavily capitalised. we want to restore elementary fairness and transparency in the taxing system and this is our main goal. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, in accordance with rule 59, as rapporteur, i would like to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for interinstitutional negotiation.
mr president, commissioner, the presidency, the council, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission, the council of ministers, the commission. i must admit that i was very pleased to hear commissioner oettinger's explanations on procedural matters, namely this phase until 1 august 2018 and from 2 august 2018. i understand that this has created very good grounds for expecting the commission to simply proceed with its work without any hesitation, and this was very clearly expressed in the speeches of president gräßle and of mrs inés ayala sender. i must admit that i am rather surprised by what minister bogner-strauss said. it means that the council wants to recognize that this is not our case. a neighbouring colleague of the prime minister, the chancellor, will not touch the colleague of the prime minister. i would say very clearly that this is our common interest: the commission, parliament and the european council, and solidarity in this sense is not, to say the least, the best thing. it's good that also here there are not labeled czechs, the state as such, but just specific people called by name, i think that's a positive thing. i would expect a real reaction very quickly, commissioner, and at the same time a demonstration of what will happen to these events that took place before 1 august 2018.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. i'm not going to let you down. i would like to start by pointing out that the legal affairs committee of the european parliament is consistently working on the development and implementation of legal instruments for the functioning of european companies on the european market. and this is a very important issue in the context of all the different kinds of problems that arise in this interdependence and cross-border interaction. why is it important to prepare the appropriate legal instruments at community level? the differences between national legal systems and the resulting complexities, particularly when disputes arise between the parties, mean that such proceedings can take years. it is therefore important to give union traders the possibility to resolve such disputes more quickly and in the same way. the legal affairs committee took the initiative a few years ago to prepare a european sales law which had a huge potential to help eu businesses in this context. unfortunately, this proposal was not accepted by the member states and work was frozen for several years. but we have made a further effort to address these issues, particularly in the context of the changes that are taking place in the european union in our market, particularly in the context of the changes that will take place after brexit. in my report to the house, i ask the european commission to consider and prepare a legislative proposal for a new instrument in the form of an accelerated european civil procedure. the aim is to make it possible to settle disputes between businesses more quickly and more cheaply. this procedure is modelled on the small claims procedure already in place and in place. but this one ends at eur 5 000, whereas the one we are proposing would go beyond that eur 5 000 and introduce the possibility of speeding up the settlement of disputes. what would that increase in speed be based on? that procedure could be conducted at least in part in writing, that procedural actions, in particular the hearing of parties or witnesses, could be carried out by the courts using the latest technology, that is to say, without the need to travel to the place where the case is being heard. we are not, of course, changing the substantive law in any way here, and the proceedings would then be conducted by the national court of the state competent to hear the case. the small claims procedure was also designed to give european businesses a choice. because this is a voluntary procedure. it could be agreed by the parties at the time the dispute arises, but of course it can only be implemented if all the parties to the dispute agree to such a procedure. we know very well that the key to doing business is predictability, security and therefore legal certainty, and we are therefore asking the european commission, but also the member states, to consider making some kind of change. the european commission in particular in the context of considering whether the provisions of the rome i, rome ii and brussels i regulations, on the basis of which those regulations are currently in dispute, should be amended. the european commission, the member states, also requested and asked to consider some kind of action that would be complementary to this legal procedure, because the accelerated dispute resolution instrument itself would obviously not be sufficient. the member states should be prepared to consider the creation of chambers or commercial divisions in their courts, since the handling of such cases by specialised judges, firstly, speeds up the procedure and improves the quality of the judgments delivered. it would also involve continuous training of judges and lawyers in commercial law. focus on education in international law, private law and commercial law, but also on more funding for academic research on these issues. it may also be appropriate to consider a review of the procedures currently applied by member states in the field of commercial disputes. i hope that the european commission will give full consideration to this proposal, which we are putting forward in the report we are now discussing. i am of course open to all kinds of suggestions for improving the functioning of european companies in the single market even further.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i may also say, dear thaddeus, my friend, following my predecessor, that i too have such a basis. first of all, i am very glad that we have taken up this subject, because trade disputes have occurred, they do occur and they will occur, let us have no doubt about it, it is a perfectly natural thing. second, we're talking about money, about business, about existence, and so time is money. we need institutions that work. the third point is very important, a sense of justice. this sense of justice may lie at the root of that - what we have written - voluntary, voluntarily, but voluntarily, if there is an expectation there i will receive a fair judgment. why would you do that? because they are competent decision makers. whether it's judges or other people with legal expertise. we need, as the rapporteur says here, both legal training, but i think we should look from the very beginning for lawyers who understand business and also economists, financiers who understand law. we will be closer to a single european trading area and a single area of justice.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank my colleagues very much for their votes in this short but very substantive debate and especially commissioner jourová for ensuring that the contents of our report will now be thoroughly analysed by the commission. of course, we do not expect to hear 100% statements about the revision of certain legal acts today, but the assurance of an analysis is very important. the question of savings, because we are talking about them, of course, we are talking about legal certainty, that these legal instruments should be used with sensitivity and full understanding for the different sectors of the economy, for the weaker and the stronger, that justice should be the determinant, but the finances of justice are also important. well, in my deep conviction, besides the fact that the shortening of the trial saves money for the parties who are in conflict at that moment, it also saves a lot for the justice system itself, because it is obvious that a dispute that lasts four or five years before the court also costs more to the justice system than a dispute that is closed in a short time. i am convinced that the report we have prepared together - and i thank the co-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation - is very balanced. we can therefore support this report in the vote tomorrow and await the legislative proposal from the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to express my appreciation for the work of your spokesman. the report on the appointment of the secretary-general is particularly noteworthy, since it is a comprehensive report drawn up ex officio, on the initiative of the ombudsman, which is noteworthy in a complex political situation. i regret that i was unable to persuade your spokesman to do so, and i would like to reiterate that invitation to take action of my own motion on another important matter which concerns this house. it applies in particular to all votes in this house which are carried out in violation of any democratic standards, which are assessed by the chairman without counting the votes. european citizens see how we vote here, and it's scandalous to them. the most disheartening spectacle is the rushed voting of 450 or 500 amendments in one hour, without counting the votes of the members, sometimes against the opinion of the chamber, as we have seen today, for example, when the president insisted that he would not repeat the vote electronically. after a few, a dozen protests, he finally repeated them and it turned out he was wrong. how many of these cases have passed against the actual judgment of the chamber something that has become european law in violation of democratic standards? the house, which is educating the world on what democracy should look like, is itself using voting techniques from some sort of tribal meeting. i therefore call on the european parliament to take up this matter in order to ensure that the citizens of the union can take seriously what this parliament produces.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, commissioner, which is the name of the person who is responsible for the following allow me to make this personal reflection, i have had the pleasure of working with ms. o'reilly for many years, as a quaestor in this chamber, and now as vice-chairman, and i have the utmost respect for the work you do and the team you lead. the rapporteur has expressed the view that errare humanum est, that is to say, it is human to err, and i must admit that it is error and mistakes that the rapporteur is pointing out to us, and it is human to err again, but not to make the same mistakes again. thanks to you, your insight, we avoid making the same mistakes over and over again, but of course, we do make new ones. i would like to thank the speaker for her opening remarks on the sense of security in parliament on that difficult night. it is a citizen's right to have access to the european parliament and it is a citizen's right to be protected in this european parliament. i am the vice-president of the european parliament responsible for, among other things, security. thank you very much for the assessment that you have expressed here, i take it as such a very practical confirmation and, i have one and a half seconds left. lobbying: your recommendations have been implemented by the bureau of the european parliament and at the same time i oppose the ban on any contact with lobbyists registered, official contact is needed.
mr president, i would like to a congratulate madam ombudsman and her team on another fruitful year of work that was outlined in her balanced and well structured annual report. first of all i would like to mention the interactive guide as an example of using available resources efficiently. out of the 15 837 citizens who called on the ombudsman services for help, 12 521 were given advice on her website, and 447 inquiries were opened of which 433 were complaint-based and 14 were own-initiative inquiries. the european ombudsman performs therefore not only efficient work with regard to complaints but also takes own-initiative inquiries regarding current eu policy areas. finally, i would like to mention a very important thing. we have to provide as much transparency and communication as possible to our citizens, but we have to keep in mind that this transparency should not undermine the negotiating positions of the european union, so finding a proper balance is very important.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to start by saying that the right to submit a petition offers eu citizens the means to address their directly elected representatives. it constitutes, in fact, a bridge between them and the eu institutions. in my opinion, our committee has an important role in raising awareness through a debate, ensuring public participation and cooperation with member states, and within the house through the petitions network that was launched last year. the subjects raised in the petitions of 2017 pertain mostly to environmental matters, fundamental rights, free movement of people, child welfare and social affairs. our work is not limited to the handling of petitions. the committee organises fact-finding visits and hearings, commissions studies, gives opinions to legislative committees, is a member of the european network of ombudsmen, and had a role in revising the regulation on the european citizens’ initiative. last year, we dedicated a lot of time to petitions on brexit, as they encompassed vital contributions to citizens ahead of the negotiations. as a committee we raised important questions to plenary by means of oral questions and resolutions. here i would like to firmly state that we should stick to our mandate as a committee. i have the impression that some of my colleagues would like to take over the role of legislative committees. last but not least, i would like to underline the importance of communication and social media presence on topics that we are dealing with, and the difference between our committee and other services such as solvit, so that our citizens and their enterprises can properly address the alleged breaches of european union law.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i read the report with satisfaction. it seems that if the european parliament is the only european institution directly elected by its citizens, it is also the only or the first institution to which citizens have the right, and even the duty, to turn and to which they do. they don't come when they're very well - we don't have many petitions from citizens like denmark or luxembourg - but when they feel unfair, when they have problems, when they need someone to just shake their hand. they also address issues that we generally consider to be broader issues, but that are important to our environment. here, mr mamikins rightly stressed the importance of translating them into decisions. and that's our role, to treat these petitions as a source of information, as a way to get down to earth sometimes. at the same time, we should remember that even if we do not help directly, we can at least listen. and the very act of listening has brought relief to many people who feel that they have been helped. and one last note about the invitation to brussels for the hearing. i like that idea. we should therefore also consider the appropriations for the committee in the budgetary lines to meet this requirement.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. - madam president! - i have to go. the digital europe programme is of great importance to the committee on education and culture, particularly in terms of strengthening europe's leadership in the world in terms of digital transformation and its impact on european culture. this first pan-european digital programme will benefit not only citizens but also businesses, cultural and creative sectors. the main pillar of the programme is investments aimed at providing citizens with advanced digital skills to enable them to access and use the latest technologies. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, appliances and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire and maintenance of computers, terminals, equipment and installations, and the purchase of computers and related equipment. this objective is particularly relevant for the cultural and creative sectors. it also stresses the need to guarantee access to the most advanced and efficient digital technologies, from artificial intelligence to advanced computing. it is also important to ensure synergies between the digital europe programme and all other programmes under the multiannual financial framework. due to the ambitious objectives of the programme, it is necessary to guarantee adequate budgetary resources. unfortunately, as a member of the committee on culture, i very much regret that the rapporteur has not taken account of one of the most important points made by our committee, namely the possibility of supporting the europeana digital library programme with this programme. the digitisation of european works, as demonstrated by europeana, presents an important opportunity to improve citizens' access to europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. the digital europe programme 2021-2027 is an important part of the broad foundation for the sphere that is already around us and that will become more important for everyone with each passing year. the digital world is permeating many aspects of our lives, from culture to health to education to cybersecurity. we must therefore make the best use of the measures set out in this programme to prepare europeans for the digital world, which the world has not yet fully experienced. we must be competitive on the global stage in this area so as not to fall behind other continents. but we must also remember that it is the human being who should be the beneficiary of the digital world, not its victim or slave. this is a sine qua non condition the development of this area of our lives must not lead to the exclusion of anyone, especially the elderly or those with limited access to the benefits of the digital world.
member of the commission. – mr president, we believe that the best way to advance human rights worldwide is through diplomatic pressure and direct engagement with the relevant authorities. this has always been our approach to human rights violations with iran. the high representative and all of us raise the issue in all of our meetings with the iranian authorities at all levels. no one is as engaged as the european union against the death penalty in iran, against all restrictions of fundamental rights and on the side of iranian human rights defenders. for many years now, we have been closely following the case of sakharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh and her husband, reza khandan. when ms sotoudeh was awarded the sakharov prize in 2012, it was for her work to provide legal representation to human rights defenders, juvenile offenders facing the death penalty and women. as a result of these efforts, she has been harassed, her work impeded, and in 2010 she was sentenced to three years of imprisonment after being convicted of security-related charges. following her release in 2013, ms sotoudeh’s engagement to promote human rights continued and she was again detained in june this year. her husband, who had been campaigning for her release, was himself detained in september. since her detention, the european union has repeatedly raised ms sotoudeh’s case with the iranian authorities at all levels, including in the framework of the eu-iran high-level dialogue. at every occasion we express our concerns about the situation of human rights in iran and the treatment of iranian human rights defenders. member states have also raised the case during their own bilateral contacts with the iranian authorities. this engagement has recently contributed to certain positive developments. just one year ago, iran decided to amend its anti-narcotics legislation and this has resulted in a dramatic reduction in drug-related executions. we are continuing to advocate for further improvements in this regard, including an immediate moratorium on the execution of juvenile offenders. we continue to call for the release of ms sotoudeh and her husband. they should be guaranteed timely access to a lawyer of their own choosing. they should be allowed to communicate with their two children and they should not be subject to any form of mistreatment. let me conclude by thanking you for your attention to this case. we will continue to work together with you and engage with the iranian authorities in order to secure the release of ms sotoudeh and her husband.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven draft resolutions on egypt, in particular the situation of human rights defenders (2018/2968 ((rsp)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask you if you blame the government that fights against the islamic terrorists who murder christians and who try to protect both muslim and christian society from this kind of terrorist anti-human activity. well, let's not confuse cause and effect.
i am concerned by the continuing reports of human rights violations and the breakdown of the rule of law in egypt. i am deeply concerned by reports of interference and government control of freedom of expression and media, as well as violations of the foundations of a democratic state based on the rule of law, such as the arrest of political opponents and human rights defenders. i would like to emphasise that egypt is a strategic partner for the european union in the region, playing a particularly important role in the peace talks and in the stability of the mediterranean. that is why we cannot accept the violation of human rights, the country's move away from democracy and towards authoritarian governments, which in turn are the cradle of extremism.
mr. chairman, please! the day before yesterday, we saw on the streets of strasbourg another tragic event that makes up this long war of islamist terrorism against the nations of europe, but a similar war is being waged in egypt. the egyptian authorities must confront the caliphate of the islamic state in sinai, the underground connected to the ousted muslim brotherhood, the attacks on the church, and the egyptian authorities are fighting this fight in the interests of international peace and social peace. of course, any human authority, especially in times of dramatic social conflicts, can make mistakes, and i have full understanding for my italian colleagues who demand an explanation for their citizen, but in this dramatic situation in which the west has so few allies, our allies are above all due recognition for fighting in defense of social and international peace and solidarity. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
by the way, mr frunzulică, there is no space for a statement. it’s space for a question.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. of course, thank you for asking. you are absolutely right that in our bilateral relations, european union diplomacy should use this to draw attention to situations that require the intervention of the authorities, for example when it comes to controlling the forces of order. it's clear, but it's also very disturbing that in public, political speeches, not diplomatic speeches, like in this room, we don't talk about the real threats to human rights in egypt, about the activities of the islamic state in sinai, about the burning of churches, about the underground of the muslim brotherhood, about what egypt, but also the world, has led to, the governments of professor morsi, the governments removed from power by marshal sisi.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has a clear interest in egypt’s long-term stability and security. at the same time, it is our firm conviction that this can be achieved only if human rights are fully implemented and upheld, as guaranteed by the 2014 egyptian constitution and in accordance with egypt’s international commitments. consequently, the european union continually encourages egypt to improve the situation with regard to civil and political rights, including freedom of expression both online and offline, and to respect the rights of human rights defenders, in accordance with international human rights law and with the relevant provisions in the egyptian constitution. the european parliament, the european external action service and civil society regularly interact and cooperate on issues related to the situation of human rights defenders in egypt. the charges most commonly filed against human rights defenders are, among others, those of acceptance of illegal foreign funding, spread of false news and misuse of social media. in our dialogue with egypt we regularly raise the increasing number of arrests of human rights defenders and activists, which is of great concern. this was also raised publicly in a statement issued by the high representative’s spokesperson in may 2018. the european union is deeply concerned, too, about reports of torture, forced disappearances and the poor detention conditions to which human rights defenders and other detainees are subjected. there is a clear need for accountability for all forms of pressure, harassment and violence against human rights defenders. furthermore, the eu welcomes the announcement that the ngo law will be reviewed. we hope that this revision will address concerns about provisions such as those on the registration process, the activities ngos are allowed to perform and procedures in connection with the receipt of domestic and foreign funding. to this end, we urge egypt to engage in a meaningful, inclusive and extensive dialogue with civil society in the process of revising the law. next week’s eu-egypt association council, on 20 december, will provide yet another forum in which to discuss the situation for the human rights defenders in egypt.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six draft resolutions on tanzania (2018/2969 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i am consistently opposed to parliament writing such a resolution. parliament is the legislative body for the europeans and should be passing laws and solving their problems, not reviewing the situation around the world. we're writing three resolutions for each session. that's about thirty-six a year, or a hundred and eighty during the term. this means that statistically, virtually every country in the world has received at least one resolution from us during one term. what's the effect? i'm not a cop. it's not gonna help. these are just the leaflets that parliament is sending out all over the world. no one outside parliament is likely to read it. so it's a waste of time that only amazes the voters. what are we doing here? the situation in tanzania? the situation in burundi? people in europe often don't know where the countries we're looking at are. our knowledge of the subject is also very limited. we only know about the situation from news reports, and those are the ones we consider to be reliable. not many of us were there. most of the mps don't know what they're voting on. the over-emphasis on lgbt and women's issues in these issues has also surprised europeans. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm sorry, but that's a very naive view of politics. international politics is not done by writing resolutions. it's a paper policy that doesn't work. will anyone read this? do you think that in tanzania the people who decide its policies do so because they don't know that the european union is against it? i'm sure they already know. and if you write to them now, it won't change anything. it's just a useless way to run politics. if you want to apply pressure, there are of course different means of applying pressure, but in general, the less you talk about it, the better, because you have to act out of surprise and you have to know how to apply pressure in a way that is effective and harsh for the side you want to apply pressure on. so i think that kind of policy is just useless. what are the effects beyond that? let's look at the effects so far, they're zero. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, these are ad personam arguments that you are using now, meaning to pick on someone whether they have children or not - yes i have children, but i will not talk about such things here, because these are private matters, so please do not ask me about it. there are many problems in the world and every time you can say that making something public can help solve it, but it usually does not, especially if the european parliament, in the case of our resolutions, has had such an inflation of their importance. if you use it as a special tool for a special problem, it can make a difference. but if you spend three of them per session, no one will follow, no one will read, no one will care.
if you could be so brief. the lord will send rübig! you said that on tuesday. i've passed it on, so we'll work on getting it early next thursday. secondly, the committee meeting. the bureau of parliament also requested both the conference of presidents of political groups and the conference of commission presidents to avoid committee meetings, especially those relating to voting, during the strasbourg plenary session. so this direction is already being pursued. (end of the line)
member of the commission. – mr president, for many decades the european union and its member states have enjoyed close and fruitful relations with the united republic of tanzania and have been its main development partner and one of its top trade and investment partners. this partnership has been rooted in shared fundamental values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law and in a common involvement in peace promotion, effective multilateralism and regional integration. however, over the past years, we have noticed the shrinking of public space in tanzania through the threats, harassment, persecution and tightening of restrictions on the activities of civil society organisations – the lgbti community, the media and many political parties. respect for human rights and the rule of law has been repeatedly undermined. the european union expressed its concerns publicly in september through a statement during the 39th session of the united nations human rights council in geneva and reiterated them in a declaration of the high representative, federica mogherini, on behalf of the european union, published on 15 november. this situation, combined with other elements, has led to growing pressure from the tanzanian authorities for the forced departure of the eu ambassador in tanzania and ultimately led to the eu’s decision to recall him to headquarters for consultations. the eu deeply regrets this unprecedented attitude, which is not in line with our long-established dialogue with tanzania. at this stage, together with member states, the european union has furthermore decided to conduct a comprehensive review of our policies and the relations towards tanzania. the review will also include issues related to human rights and the rule of law, as well as our development cooperation. as underlined in the statement of 15 november, it is important to send a strong message to tanzania while maintaining engagement with actors from all spheres of political, economic, social and cultural life, including civil society. the structured political dialogue with the tanzanian government will resume once the review of the relationship has been completed, with a view to resetting our bonds on a more trustful and forward-looking basis. let me set this in the broader context of eu relations with africa. in abidjan in november 2017, we agreed to an agenda based on shared interests and shared values. the european union will always look at our relations with each african partner in a comprehensive way, including our common long-term interests. therefore, european union remains committed to a sound relationship with a stable, democratic and inclusive tanzania, fully involved in the regional integration process.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i am very pleased that the report has been well prepared, in my opinion it is more comprehensive, better than last year, because the human rights agenda is of particular importance to the european union. as a lawyer, i've spent my life fighting for the abolition of the death penalty in the world, and i'm very happy that this report describes that there's been a certain decline in executions, about seven to eight percent per year. but it's still a small drop. i therefore wanted to call on the european union institutions not to underestimate this aspect of the fight for human rights, the fight against the inhuman death penalty, and to do our utmost in the coming year to ensure that certain countries stop using the death penalty or at least stop abusing it in political and other processes. i welcome the report, i have supported it and i hope that next year we will read that the human rights situation is improving in at least some areas and parts.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report. the european union's human rights policy is instrumentally treated as a tool for spreading the moral revolution first and foremost to the whole world, as a propaganda tube, as a trumpet all the time about the rights of sexual minorities, which are the rights that are trumpeted to the central problem of humanity in all these initiatives of ours, the trumpet about the specific approach to gender. of course, we are talking about the istanbul convention, about the special role of women in everything in the world. so it's a tool to spread leftist rhetoric around the world. we're instrumental in our trade policy when we say we'll only trade with those we agree with. it's an instrumental approach to education when we say that education is a tool to fight radicalization. no, education is a means of imparting knowledge. if you treat it as a tool for creating attitudes, it's propaganda. so i voted against and i oppose this approach to human rights.
mr. chairman, please! i always vote against any way to raise taxes. if taxation is unfairly distributed in the market, then taxes should be reduced for those who pay too much and not increased for the rest. if google or facebook or any other company is making any kind of wealth, it's making it through voluntary transactions, and voluntary transactions are good in their own right. forcing is inherently bad, and taxation is a form of coercion, so i will always prefer that people get rich through voluntary transactions rather than forced transactions (e.g. politicians who take money from business entities by force). secondly, it requires the bureaucratization of the internet as well, just as the introduction of income tax required and still requires the recording of all economic activity. if we want to introduce similar regulations on the internet, it will lead to more reporting on the internet and more surveillance of the internet by the state. and that's why i'm against it.
in writing. data on rare diseases are incomplete and although statistically these diseases may affect between 5 and 6% of the population, it is questionable to estimate for countries such as france or germany with populations twice as large as poland, where there are similar numbers of about 3 million estimated diseases. there are considerable differences between countries in both newborn testing and diagnostic and treatment options, which seems to be related to the financial capacity of countries that provide much better social and psychological care and reimbursement, especially in france and germany, and in the uk, where 60 orphan medicines are reimbursed in england, while in ireland only 12 are reimbursed. according to polish doctors, the treatment of rare diseases and the reimbursement of its costs is a worldwide problem, practically unresolved anywhere yet, although the breakthrough was to treat all diseases as a whole and central coordination is necessary for both information, research and funding, not just the indications in articles 12 and 13 of the 2011 directive. it seems that much depends on the european commission's commitment and the proposals for regulations that should concern not only scientific research but also therapeutic procedures, and especially the financing of very expensive orphan drugs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development is very concerned about the situation in pig farming caused by african swine fever, which has repercussions on the functioning of the pigmeat market and the level of farmers' incomes and causes many other problems and risks. this has been discussed many times in the committee on agriculture. many members of parliament from the countries affected by the disease have organised hearings, conferences and meetings with farmers affected by the disaster. hence the decision of the coordinators and the committee on agriculture to ask the european commission about this matter and to hold a debate in the plenary of the european parliament. so i'll just move on to the question. african swine fever is an infectious, usually fatal, disease of pigs and wild boar. it constitutes a serious threat to pig production with devastating indirect economic losses for the pig sector as a result of rapid and complete bans by third countries on imports of pigs, pig meat and pig products from countries where asf has been detected. wild animals carry and spread the virus, which can be transferred to domestic livestock farms. and we're also looking at institutional spread by humans over long distances, to new regions that were previously uninfected. the prevention, control and eradication of asf clearly require a global approach involving all competent authorities, professional organisations, hunters' associations and citizens. it is important that member states disseminate accurate information on biosecurity on farms so that farmers on the front line can take immediate action to stop the spread of the disease. as regards the prevention and control measures already identified by the commission to be applied in the event of a suspicion or confirmation of asf in holdings or wild boar, how, firstly, will the commission ensure sound coordination between all competent authorities in the areas of animal health, wildlife, road transport and customs? secondly, what measures, including financial assistance to affected farmers, are currently planned by the commission to improve the control and eradication of the disease, to improve those measures that have been applied at present because they are considered insufficient by farmers? how does the commission counter the disproportionate bans adopted by certain third countries on the export of pigs, pig meat and pig products from the affected union countries? the african swine fever situation constitutes a particular threat in the european union but also in the member states. so the question is: what can we do in the union, the member states, the various institutions, of which there are so many at different levels - regional, national, eu - or finally the various services, as well as the processing industry, trade, to be better prepared for these types of threats that may arise, which can be very serious for the whole union and beyond? so how do you prepare for these kinds of emergencies, situations that threaten the security of various areas? and i think that requires some review, because a lot of action has been taken, a lot of action is being taken, but this preparation is extremely important, so that action is fast.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. poland is indeed very strict in its bio-insurance policy, but unfortunately, as a result of asf coming to us from the east, and the difficulties with exports, the fall in prices, even now before christmas, has led to a tragic situation for pork farmers. in eastern poland, almost a third of pig farms have disappeared. if the virus spreads west, where the largest herd of cattle is, the losses could be unimaginable. commissioner, polish farmers want to produce pigs, not to eliminate production, and the european commission is encouraging the elimination of small herds. we cannot abolish pig production in the european union. we must fight this disease effectively. what financial aid is the european commission proposing to help with the fall in pigmeat prices? they are independent of the producers and should be compensated for this.
mr. chairman, please! in this warm, bright room, we're discussing a problem that has led to the fact that several thousand pig farms, especially in eastern poland, are dark and cold. production in these areas has in many cases been permanently shut down. congresswoman aguilera garcia said poland has handled the problem very well. the question is: why are there farmers blocking traffic in poland at this very moment, when we are discussing this, because of african swine fever? we are talking about the tragedy of thousands of families who have very often lost their only source of livelihood. as the conference i organised with mr oskarski six months ago in parliament with international experts and farmers on asf showed, farmers are losing the battle, but above all they are losing the battle with bureaucracy and the lack of effective action to tackle the causes of the disease. we have warned that the lack of solidarity, the inefficiency of some member states' authorities, will lead to the spread of this disease in europe. there is no systematic support for farmers, both for those who are no longer producing and for those who are still trying to save it. the farmers are left to deal with this problem alone, it's deeply unfair.
