the question of nuclear weapons is a very topical one. the increase in tension is on the agenda and negotiations are under way within the united nations to create a binding instrument in the form of a treaty banning nuclear weapons. we therefore consider it of the utmost importance that this house should discuss this important subject. world peace and, ultimately, the very survival of our planet are at stake. we propose that the debate be held on tuesday afternoon on the oral question we put to the council and we also ask that the vote on this proposal be by roll-call vote.
i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take part in the debate, but i am saying that it should be able to take part in the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, investing in clean energy means a better quality of life, fewer disasters and more sustainability for the planet. but it doesn't just mean that. it also means more security, more development, more growth, more jobs, more opportunities for innovation, better living conditions for our citizens and putting technologies at their service. it means even more possibilities to combat energy poverty in europe and beyond, and through this fight, it means more health, more education, more peace, reduced forced migration and armed conflict. so, commissioners and colleagues, this legislative package has a red line to be credible. what is agreed here in the european parliament and then agreed with the european council has to be in line with the commitments made under the paris agreement. it was unthinkable that it would not happen. it would be totally irresponsible to take a different position. i welcome the constructive and positive path we have taken in the european parliament. i hope that the votes on wednesday will confirm and validate the intensive work we have been doing. i also express my pride in the ability of my country - portugal - to remain at the forefront of this process. increasing interconnections to at least 15% by 2030 will allow portugal and other countries to continue on the path they have set. commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the threshold of a new scientific and technological era. and in energy, the european union has always been at the forefront. and that's the way we have to go.
mr president, cleaner or dirtier, greener or greyer, the so-called 'energy union' means nothing but the great and liberalised single european energy market. the consequences will be no different from those in other liberalised sectors: monopolistic concentration on a european scale, benefiting energy oligopolies and harming consumers, especially the most vulnerable. for us, energy should be seen as a public good. the public, democratic control of the energy sector is therefore a prerequisite for ensuring its sustainability, with the necessary paradigm shift based on the high dependence on fossil fuels and on unsustainable energy and material flows to meet the basic needs of humanity, but also to ensure that no one is excluded from access to this essential good, by combating energy poverty. we are intervening in this process, arguing for the need for ambitious targets, both in terms of energy efficiency and renewable energy, in the context of respect for national sovereignty over this strategic sector and the necessary break with a production mode that is fundamentally unsustainable and irrational.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their hard work and i recognise that there are indeed some very disruptive elements here. but let me be clear, commissioner, my point of departure with the european commission in the context of this dossier is based on article 4. in my view, a one-size-fits-all solution for all european fisheries is not technically or politically reasonable. the possibility of a differentiated decision in dialogue with the regional councils is an important and sensible step, and peacefully pacifying, and does not harm the pcp, quite the contrary. it can also give the cfp credibility in the face of the urban myth and the mistrust of overly centralised decisions. another aspect - the incidental capture of sensitive species - must be reduced and it was with displeasure that i saw my proposals for measures to reduce it rejected in committee. so i'm back to reinforce the protection of sensitive species like marine mammals, including pinnipeds.
mr president, despite the promises made in the last reform of the common fisheries policy, it remains a highly centralised policy which ignores the diversity of the sector in terms of fleets of resources and fisheries. the miraculous regionalization has resulted in a handful of nothing. we continue to have an outdated policy which is creating difficulties, especially for small-scale, coastal and artisanal fisheries. this proposal for a regulation confirms this once again. it is symptomatic that the greater permissiveness that we see emerging in this proposal for regulation is fundamentally benefiting certain segments of industrial fishing in northern european countries. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the end of the year, is a very good one.
member of the commission. madam president, i do not think i can answer in two minutes, because i would first of all like to express my full solidarity with the greek people, who have been so hard-pressed, as you have said, in recent years. you know very well that i believe that our role in the european union is to show solidarity, especially in difficult times. most of my visits were to italy after that country was so badly tried by the earthquake, then to the countries that were tried by the fires and, of course, to greece, where i was in that first phase, when, indeed, as i said, the government was in total desperation, after which, little by little, we tried to help and we came before you, along with these extraordinary measures for an extraordinary situation. i want to tell you to those who reproach us for not giving you enough information that it's not easy. there are 50,000 projects, we can't give information, we don't have the means. we work at the program level, giving information about each individual project is not easy, but on the other hand, we try, of course, at the program level to give you all the information possible. i tell you, as i said at the beginning, that without these extraordinary measures, i think greece would have had serious problems in overcoming the crisis it was in. i would like to say that, in my view, this is a misunderstanding. the committee on regional development received monthly reports about the implementation of cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013 and for 2014-2020. it seems to me that there is a misunderstanding about the closure of the procedure. greece submitted the closure documents by 31 march 2017. the commission services sent their comments in august 2017, and the greek authorities replied in those comments with the revised closure document in december 2017. so the final assessment is expected to be concluded in the first half of 2018. this is in accordance with the procedure set out in the common provisions regulation that applies to all member states. the commission will provide all information, as foreseen in the regulation. as regards information on what greece did with this eur two billion, it is up to the government, not us, to provide that. we have received this and are now translating it with a slight delay, and we apologise for that but you will receive this report. following all your interventions i would like to be very clear that the specific measures for greece have had a far-reaching impact that goes, in my view, beyond the liquidity issues. as a result of these measures, greece has been the first member state to reach full absorption of available funds under 2007-2013. greece is also among the best-performing member states regarding the implementation of 2014-2020 programmes. these promising results echo all the efforts we, the commission and european parliament, have made together, to support greece and encourage it in tackling its challenges. i say to mr marias that we have created so many jobs, and it is not fair to say that only the multinationals are creating jobs for the younger generation in greece. i do not share this view. we have invested so much in research and innovation in greece. it's very important to share this news and go beyond this way of thinking, because it's really important to know exactly what we're doing. we can provide you with details of exactly what we have done for the younger generation of greek people. we have also provided support in rural areas and also in the most deprived areas. you know very well that we are providing as much help as we can to all the islands, which have been much hit migratory problems. assistance to the tune of eur 20 billion for 2014-2020 from the structural funds is helping greece regenerate its economy and boost its competitiveness by promoting a new model based on innovation and entrepreneurship. you can see very well, as i said at the beginning, in all the indicators and statistics. i am very confident that in the current period greece will make ever greater achievements, thanks especially to the concentration of resources and efforts in selected productive sectors, in line with the national and regional smart specialisation strategies, as well as the necessary structural reforms for the modernisation of the public sector. with the ongoing support from the european parliament, i hope that you will continue to help greece thrive. things are not as good as we had hoped, but we hope that together we will help the member states most in need. greece was in this situation, and i'm very proud that we have achieved all these things for the greek people in the last three years.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the treaty. the seas provide food, energy, mobility, medicine and leisure, and are a source of economic growth. the oceans, together with coastal and marine resources, play a vital role in human well-being and economic and social development worldwide. according to oecd estimates, ocean-based industries represent a global gross value added of around eur 1.3 billion, which could double by 2030. oceans also host a rich, fragile and largely untapped biodiversity that provides a variety of important ecosystem services and resources. marine and coastal economies are developing around the world, but their success depends on better sustainability. the oceans also play a key role in regulating the climate system, supplying half of our oxygen, absorbing about 25 percent of the co2 emissions produced and redistributing heat across the planet. the oceans are actually our biggest allies against climate change and they were included in the paris agreement. however, our oceans are extremely vulnerable to overexploitation, climate change such as global ocean warming, environmental degradation, water acidification due to emissions from human activities, pollution and biodiversity loss. some of these most urgent global challenges, including climate change, poverty, safe and sufficient food for a population projected to reach 9 billion by 2050, can only be effectively addressed if the oceans are safe, clean and managed sustainably. addressing all these challenges requires better international governance in order to strengthen efforts at regional and global levels. these challenges have been recognised globally both at the rio+20 summit and in the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which has identified the conservation and sustainable use of our oceans as one of the 17 sustainable development goals and as part of a highly interconnected agenda. the 2016 joint communication of the european commission and the high representative on the international governance of the oceans, which is an integral part of the european union's response to the 2030 agenda, was based on a broad consensus on the need to strengthen the governance framework for the oceans, reduce pressures on them, exploit them sustainably and that this would require a greater knowledge of the oceans, proposing 50 actions to ensure safe, clean and sustainably managed oceans in europe and globally. international ocean governance is concerned with three areas of action for the european union: sustainable development, growth and employment and the union's intervention in the world. in this context, the maritime economy and international competitiveness are of particular importance to europe, given the increasingly worrying state of the oceans and the impact of human activities on them. in one case as in another, the success of management is a challenge to be met at world level. the union and the member states must act more firmly and together. the report, which will be voted on tomorrow, encourages the commission to develop partnerships in the field of oceans with the main players in this field as a means of achieving better international ocean governance. the way we deal with the oceans is crucial to our survival as a species and in malta, commissioner vella said at the our ocean conference that the oceans are the blue heart of the earth and that it is up to all of us to keep that heart beating. we now have the urgent task of acting in defence of the oceans and of creating a new and ambitious international governance of the oceans. and for all that, ladies and gentlemen, i hope i can count on your vote in favour tomorrow when we vote.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, yes we can see that the last european council was a relevant one with relevant progress, first of all regarding the way to deal with brexit, because we could identify the next steps while fully respecting the european union principles. this kind of consistency will be needed whatever happens and – we agree with president tusk – we should keep an open heart to possible developments and choices in the future. but let me also focus on two other issues where this council has made commitments; and the commitments must be delivered. this is about putting in motion the road map we have defined since bratislava and since the rome declaration. the first one is the commitment to equip the european union with updated social standards with the european pillar of social rights. this is important for all groups of the population, but young people above all, particularly in this new digital era. if we consider that many, many people today have jobs but without a labour contract or without social protection, we can conclude that something basic is wrong. we need to correct this and make sure that everybody in employment, whatever the kind of job they do, has a decent labour contract and full access to social protection. and then we need to make sure that people, particularly young people, have access to proper skills and new kinds of job, which means large-scale investment in the future. we have the european fund for strategic investment. this is good but not enough, because we need efforts on a much larger scale. if we want to tackle this problem we need to reform the eurozone because we still have many divergences in the way member states can invest in the future, inside the eurozone and also involving those who are planning to join. something is wrong here, and that is why we welcome this commitment to reform the eurozone. a window of opportunity is there because we have the commission proposal, we have a committed eurogroup president, we have a euro summit committing the prime ministers, and let’s see what comes from the german side. this combination of factors can open a window of opportunity. let me underline that we want a genuine reform, with the economic and monetary fund in the eu framework, a banking union but also with a fiscal capacity. these are the basic conditions for the eurozone to come back to life in a meaningful manner.
mr president, of course we appreciate that parliament’s president is giving blue cards because we have a lively debate. but we should not accept a situation where a blue card is given twice to the same member of parliament. this is beyond the kind of balance we should have, so please pay attention to this.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, i should like to first of all to emphasize this conclusion on defence, and to concentrate on it. i would naturally like to say that we are very pleased with this progress that has been made. we regret that portugal joined at the last minute, largely because the portuguese government is supported in parliament by countries that are totally anti-european and totally anti-nato, by parties, and so the portuguese government was in a very difficult situation when portugal was always at the forefront of all defence efforts. it is regrettable that we have wasted this time and i would like to leave a recommendation to parliament and a recommendation to the council and the commission. parliament, which constitutes a real defence committee, a defence committee, to follow up these matters, and the commission, which in its next, let us say, term of office, may have, may have a defence council, a council of defence ministers chaired by the vice-president, the high representative, so that the defence policies of pesco and the defence policies of the european union, in conjunction with nato, can be followed up either in parliament or by a team of ministers from the different governments at european level.
mr president, i am going to ask the commission right now to ensure that the trust fund does not become a channel for financing the powers of the member states in the interests of the european agricultural industry in particular. we are concerned about the inadequacies, the delays and the successive attempts to alter and tamper with the peace agreements, and the lack of determination with which the colombian government has been fulfilling its commitments. we denounce your failure to take action against the paramilitary groups, who have widened their activities, spreading terror and death in countless territories, with dozens of indigenous people and activists killed in recent months. in fact, only the farc are scrupulously implementing the agreement, despite the limitations and constant threats. we express our solidarity and confidence in those in colombia, the whole of the progressive and democratic forces, the communist and revolutionary forces, the popular and indigenous movements, who have firmly and with total determination, sometimes paying with their lives, taken up the unequivocal defence of the peace process in that country. a process that nothing and no one should stop.
mr president, the peace process in colombia proves that often when there is the courage to dialogue, it is possible to overcome what was apparently insurmountable. it proves that the most fearless are, in some circumstances, those who seek reconciliation rather than confrontation. and it further proves that intransigence can prolong conflict beyond anything that is humanly tolerable. this is exactly what president juan manuel santos understood, the same as when he took office as minister of defense in 2006, he had declared that he would be the minister of war to achieve peace. from minister of war, juan manuel santos became president of peace, and this vision, without which the conflict that lasted more than half a century would still be present today, was duly recognized with the award of the nobel peace prize in 2016. in a country where the historical pattern has unfortunately been one of violence, with a history so marked by civil war, president santos' initiative was an absolutely extraordinary gesture. that is why this peace process has been and will be subject to various risks and complex challenges. in this context, the support of the international community is absolutely vital and cannot be subject to any political calculations or electoral logic. and among the supports which the colombians certainly value most and which they probably need most is the support of the european union. that is why the political forces in this parliament must always put the goal of peace above any ideological sympathies. the colombian people have the right to a secure life, free from the constant threat of violence, they have the right to turn the page on the war in order to free the country's energies and concentrate them on economic development and the promotion of the common welfare. in 2016, this parliament unanimously adopted a joint resolution in favour of the colombian peace process with the support of the seven political groups. unfortunately, that will not be the case on this occasion. but it is good to remember the importance of this process on a truly global scale. i should like to conclude by quoting the words of the secretary-general of the united nations, mr antonio guterres, who, during his visit to that country last week, said that the peace process in colombia has symbolic importance for the whole world. it extends far beyond colombia itself.
mr president, the peace agreement in colombia was complex and had a strong commitment from the european union. at a time when the implementation of this agreement is facing increasing risks, it is not just the future of colombia and its people that is at stake. the credibility of european soft power, which has made so many positive contributions to the promotion of peace and human rights in the world, is also at stake, disturbing those who prefer to maintain and contexts of conflict and chaos in order to better be able to fulfil their agendas of distraction and the imposition of power by the strongest. that is why the political calculation shown by some groups in this house is regrettable. the colombian people are free to choose the president they want, but that does not exempt us from continuing to support them in their struggle for peace. in this context, the european union, aware of the situation on the ground and the limits of its capacity to intervene, has a key role to play in leading an internal and external coalition to safeguard what has been achieved. this debate reiterates a key mandate for the commission to continue its efforts for peace in colombia and for peace in the world.
(the speaker was away from the microphone) ... a tremendous challenge in colombia, a country that remains beset by violence perpetrated by armed groups, including farc, eln and paramilitary dissidents who have thrived in the shadow of drug trafficking. 2018 brings presidential and legislative elections that cannot be a pretext to interrupt the peace process. the common alternative revolutionary force that has emerged from the farc transformation must learn to function as a political party and have room for it. at the same time, it cannot be accepted that other armed groups, including paramilitaries, take over areas formerly controlled by the farc, killing, oppressing and expelling populations. the european union must speak and act by helping the colombian government to continue dialogue, including with the eln, but also to fight corruption and organised crime, because, as un secretary-general antónio guterres stressed during a visit to the country last week, it is not enough for the state to deploy security forces in the areas affected by the violence. the essence of the presence of the state must be translated into education, health, infrastructure and access for agricultural producers to markets, providing living conditions for the colombian population, for the communities, which in the last year alone have seen more than 170 activists and trade union leaders murdered. not to kill the peace implies giving the colombian people living conditions.
madam president, the recent massive anti-government protests were motivated by the rage swiftly spreading among the poorest in iran. little was done to alleviate the long-standing unemployment problem, dramatically affecting young people in particular. the 2018 budget, cobbling together president rouhani’s neoliberal agenda and ayatollah khamenei’s clerical fiat, exposed the regime’s disconnect over spending on religious institutions and military foreign adventures, such as in syria, while imposing social cuts and increases in fuel prices, at a time when several provinces face drought and environmental degradation. the elite’s misappropriation and embezzlement rightly outraged iranian citizens to the point that today the iranian parliament was forced to cancel allocations to so-called special entities. reforms for accountability to attract investments and create jobs are needed. the eu should continue to work with iran to make it comply with the criteria of the financial action task force. fighting money laundering and corruption is in iran’s and the eu’s interests. iran’s law against drug trafficking was amended in a way which we hope will spare thousands of citizens from execution. it has to be a benchmark for the judicial reform that is much needed in iran, which needs to be further pressed by the eu to abolish the death penalty and to stop and address glaring human rights violations. we call for the immediate release of political prisoners, including the recently jailed protesters and nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, a dual british—iranian citizen jailed in evin since 2016. at the same time, the eu must call on the international community to reject all unilateral dangerous moves by president trump, israel, saudi arabia or any others to undermine the nuclear deal. the eu must be prepared with contingency measures to counter any attempts to block the jcpoa.
madam president, the situation in iran is a clear symptom of the contradictions and volatility of the international situation. the protests emanate from the poorest sectors of society, those who will be most affected by the reforms planned in the country's new budget, reacting to the deep inequalities in iranian society. a society that has been hit by the consequences of neoliberal policies, but also by the sanctions imposed by us imperialism. the reaction of the authorities is not unheard of in a theocratic regime that keeps the communist party (tudeh) of iran outlawed. the united states' manoeuvres, launched on the eve of the renewal of the nuclear agreement, are evident, in order to exploit real problems, some of them resulting from its policies, with a view to promoting interference operations in that country. for those of you with short memories, we remember the consequences of the so-called arab spring or the intervention and aggression in libya, iraq, syria or afghanistan. we express our full solidarity with the iranian people, who are fighting for their rights and living conditions, and we reject any interference.
madam president, madam commissioner, what happened last year in kenya, from an electoral point of view, reflects well the potentialities, the difficulties and the contradictions affecting a large part of the african continent. there is now a new hope for africa, a hope for growth and economic development, a hope for the construction and consolidation of genuine democracies based on respect for human rights. and in a number of african countries, fortunately, we are seeing changes with great significance. in kenya, we were able to witness precisely these contradictory data. on the one hand, a people with a great desire to participate in a democratic electoral act. five million young people with a great desire to participate in this democratic electoral act. the next step is a decision unprecedented in africa by a supreme court, which held that those elections had to be repeated because of violations of legal norms, which is something that cannot be overlooked here, because it points, in fact, to the enshrinement of a fundamental principle of any serious democracy, which is the principle of the separation of powers. and then the negative part, which was the inability of the political leadership to deal with this situation properly. the role of the european union can only be different, outside any neocolonialist horizon that is not really in our minds today. the european union's role can only be to help consolidate development and to help consolidate democratic institutions in africa, and in this case in kenya in particular.
in writing. the current year will be a year of great challenges for the european union. the preparation of the post-2020 financial perspective and the completion of the economic and financial reforms that the european union needs are the context in which the bulgarian presidency is taking place. the priorities identified, namely mobilising young people, stabilising the balkans, focusing on digital skills and promoting the internal market, security and stability in a framework of cohesion and convergence, are appropriate for the different european institutions and member states to continue the work they have to do to make the european union more robust, more competitive and better able to respond to the global challenges it faces. the rotating presidencies of the council of the european union provide a twofold opportunity. they enable the presidencies to apply a global vision of the future of the union and at the same time contribute to the stabilisation of the union's relations with the territories and peoples closest to it. in relations with the balkans, russia and turkey, among others, bulgaria can make a fundamental contribution and it is important that this priority should be one of the pillars of its presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank the taoiseach very much for such an inspiring and positive contribution. as far as i have understood, mr varadkar, you would consider – and even appreciate – the creation of a transnational list and a single european constituency. speaking as a true federalist and european, that is apparently a romantic and generous idea but it threatens a very delicate compromise among eu member states. let me put to you a couple of short questions to stimulate your reflection on this issue. are you aware that the united states, switzerland and germany, which are true and historic federations, do not have a single national constituency? are we more catholic than the pope? these countries have true, successful histories of integration. are you aware that this will reinforce the weight of the big states because it is natural that in the first place on each list there will be nationals from the bigger states? this will jeopardise the position of ireland and portugal. you should reflect on these things.
mr president, i say to mr varadkar: thank you for your enlightened words for europe. as the child of a migrant, what would you tell citizens and european leaders about the rejuvenation, regeneration that migrants actually bring to europe? how would you impress on the eu council the importance of full social integration for migrants and for refugees and their children? on taxation, you said that you want a single market that serves citizens and not just corporations and you said that corporation should pay their fair share of taxes and that countries should not be played off against each other. so, are you in favour of a common cooperate consolidated tax base in the eu so that the race to the bottom does not continue? will you also push in the council for a financial transaction tax so that capital is not escaping taxes while citizens and smes are overburdened, and so that we will have a level playing field in the single market, and ensure that our own resources for the eu and for our member states will increase?
in writing. the eu is one of the most successful projects in the history of mankind: it has brought europe's longest period of peace, brought people closer together, promoted human rights and openness to the world, prosperity and convergence, the sharing of knowledge and the circulation of ideas, abolished borders and divisions. the complexities of this extraordinary supranational construction make any substantial change, however, a lengthy and sometimes tortuous process, filled with dead ends. this delay contrasts with the acceleration of time that characterizes today's world, which is confronted with profound changes in the technological, energy, economic and labour market sectors, among others, which are causing anxiety and insecurity among europeans. at the same time, internal fractures that have emerged or been discovered in recent years persist, although mitigated, and sovereigntist rhetoric has returned in force to the media space. despite all these difficulties, the historical balance of this political project can only be positive. the eu's great challenge is to stand firm in its assertion of the superiority of the values of freedom, openness, solidarity and moderation, refusing to succumb to closure, selfishness and extremism.
the european parliament organises a series of debates on the future of europe with leading personalities. this initiative is welcome, but the institutions must concentrate their efforts on making structural decisions for the coming years quickly. i generally follow leo varadkar's vision of the main challenges for the future. as regards brexit, i fully support the need to safeguard the good friday agreement by integrating this commitment into any withdrawal agreement or future eu-uk relations. i agree with the proposal to move from the permanent structured cooperation now launched to deeper integration in defence to combat common challenges such as cybersecurity or drug and arms trafficking. i share the understanding of the need to deepen the internal market by building a digital single market that understands the dimension of financial services. in this respect, i welcome the taoiseach's commitment to advocating greater integration in tax matters to combat fraud and evasion. although i do not foresee any enlargement any time soon, i am in agreement with the understanding of the need to deepen relations with our neighbours, particularly the balkan countries. i agree with the call for speed in building the new common asylum system.
i would like to inform you that professor merera gudina has been released in ethiopia. we in this parliament called for his release. that is very good.
madam president, the youth employment initiative is based on a tripod of job creation, training and traineeships. and in my region, as in many member states, this tripod is unbalanced, because we are investing much more in training and traineeships than we are investing in the supply of jobs. and so we are not contributing to the fight against precariousness. we have a second problem with one of the tripod feet, which is precisely the formation. our young people are being thrown into cycles of continuing training, of training which is completely inadequate, of training which is completely inconsequential, when we have to ensure the opposite. we must ensure that our young people have individual support in multidisciplinary teams, made up of technicians, psychologists and specialist sociologists, to ensure that the training offered is appropriate both to the trainee's characteristics and to the needs of the companies. finally, traineeships cannot mask employment contracts nor can they replace employment contracts. and so it is necessary to ensure that the trainee's functional content and responsibility are properly defined and that he is accompanied by a supervisor who supports him and gives him training. more control is needed, with appropriate means of inspection. more transparency and a qualitative evaluation of the programme's results are needed. finally, the youth employment initiative must be consistent. this implies greater social mobility and that we reduce social inequalities in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, youth must be the priority of the european union. this has budgetary consequences, of course, and also national budgets, since the responsibility for employment is a national responsibility. the european union has done its part. member states should use the various funds they have for the promotion of employment. in cohesion policy alone, this amounts to 350 billion euros. the european social fund, the most important element for proper training, employment and education, has some 80 billion euros, and the member states must use it for this purpose. the european union has done its part and has, for example, increased the youth employment initiative by eur 116 million in the reconciliation for this year's budget. the youth employment initiative is an instrument that demonstrates the solidarity of the european union. it helps the poorest member states and regions, those with the highest youth unemployment, to improve their inclusion. it thus strengthens social and territorial cohesion. we need to strengthen, improve the youth employment initiative. we must continue this initiative. the european union needs inclusion, it needs territorial cohesion and, to return to the way i started, youth must be the priority of the european union and young people must be involved in the implementation of programmes and in the formulation of policies that concern them.
madam president, the high levels of unemployment which persist systematically in the european union are not independent of its neoliberal policies and the promotion of precarious employment and low wages. such policies have a particular impact on young people, which is why in countries such as portugal, youth unemployment is as high as 25%. the eij is a palliative, which practice shows does not meet the objectives it sets itself. the report itself acknowledges that some €45 billion would be needed for the programme to have a visible impact. now, for the period 2014-2020, you've budgeted only 6.4 billion, far below what's needed. hell is full of good intentions. we have consistently proposed a substantial increase in the eye budget, advocating the creation of jobs with permanent contracts and rights, proposals which the right-wing and social democratic majority in the european parliament have rejected. the report also omits many points, particularly in its response to the structural problems at the root of youth unemployment.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the honourable members for their support and for the interesting remarks and comments. your report is very timely as we are now in the process of elaborating our proposals for the future funding of youth employment under the next multiannual financial framework. fighting youth unemployment will continue to be a high priority at european and national levels as long as the rates of young unemployed and of those not in employment, education or training (neets) remain excessively high. the targeted funding and the focus on results which characterise the youth employment initiative should be maintained. we will also address the challenge of simplifying implementation rules and reducing the burden on both managing authorities and beneficiaries. many of you stressed the importance of macro-economic policies, and i would like to mention the policy of this commission to stimulate economic growth, investment and job creation. let me also refer to our skills agenda, and to underline our attention to quality in terms of offer in the framework of the youth employment initiative. this initiative is well targeted, as you know, targeted at specific regions and groups of young people, and we have specific results indicators that act as an additional driver of quality. the commission is also monitoring the quality of employment for all age groups under the european semester, with particular attention being paid to issues related to labour-market segmentation. we provide guidance on the quality of traineeships and apprenticeships and we promote youth learning and vocational education and training (vet) mobility. we have enhanced the monitoring of the quality of youth guarantee offers in the employment committee (emco) multilateral surveillance process, and, as some of you might know, conclusions are expected soon – early this year. for the future, the commitment to quality offers for young people has been reinforced in the pillar of social rights. in principle 4b of the pillar we have included the youth guarantee. honourable members, i look forward to working with you on the future multiannual financial framework proposals, to securing a prominent place for investing in the future of our young generation. this investment in young people is not only, as some of you said, an expression of solidarity: it is also an essential condition for ensuring the future development of a highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress. it is also about an inclusive society and a dynamic society. thanks for your support. let us work together in the interest of our younger generation.
in writing. the latest eurostat data confirm a situation of high structural unemployment in the european union and the euro area. systemic unemployment coexists with another reality which the statistics do not disguise: abnormally low wage growth, a compression of the price of labour, which takes advantage of the social pressure exerted by the reserve army of the unemployed to increase the exploitation of those who still find work. two realities that particularly affect the youngest and confirm that the capitalist crisis has been used to force entry into a new level of exploitation. the european union and its policies are active in promoting this race to the bottom in terms of rights, wages, living and working conditions. in portugal, youth unemployment is 25%. the youth employment initiative is a palliative. but what practice shows is its almost residual impact. we have repeatedly proposed an increase in the resources allocated to this programme and a clarification of its rules, with a view to preventing the promotion of forms of precarious work. significantly, these proposals have been rejected by the right and the social democrats in this parliament. who now come here crying crocodile tears for youth unemployment.
in writing. unemployment particularly affects the youngest. the european union and its policies are active in promoting this race to the bottom in terms of rights, wages, living and working conditions. in portugal, youth unemployment is 25%. this is the case in many other member states. the youth employment initiative does not solve the structural problems of unemployment. worse, it becomes a factor in devaluing work, whether in the bond, in the remuneration or in its flexibilization. in other words, young people, wherever they find work, training or training, become a stick in the mud. but still its macroeconomic impact is almost residual as the statistics show. we have repeatedly proposed an increase in the resources allocated to this programme and a clarification of its rules, with a view to preventing the promotion of forms of precarious work. significantly, these proposals have been rejected by the right and the social democrats in this parliament, who now come here crying crocodile tears over youth unemployment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on the launch of the first european strategy for plastics and on the efforts it is making to harmonize environmental protection and protection with economic growth and the innovation it brings. we all know that human society is very much dependent on plastic. over 70 percent of the products we use in our daily lives are made from composite materials made of plastics. the reality is that we europeans generate 25 million tonnes of plastic waste a year, of which less than 70% is collected for recycling, the rest ends up in our oceans, polluting everything in its path, endangering the very sustainability of the planet. the need to focus on recycling and design, mr vice-president, is not enough. we also need to change behaviours, to change the culture of disposable production and consumption, and to encourage the use of durable and reusable materials. ladies and gentlemen, it is an evidence that today's society is unfortunately plastic-dependent. so i think it's up to all of us to create the conditions for this dependence to end in favour of a more sustainable environment. i'm going to say, vice presidents, as vice president timmermans said, if we don't change the way we produce and use plastic items, by 2050, there will be more plastic than fish in our oceans.
madam president, the market and its sacralization have imposed unsustainable irrational practices and behaviour in the use of disposable goods, demonstrating a huge disregard and contempt for the very physical limits of the planet. it is essential that the production and use of waste and unnecessary products be reduced, but we are not going to do that with the market approaches advocated by the european commission or with so-called economic instruments. the application of the polluter-pays principle, which means reserving the right to pollute to those who can pay for it, does not make pollution less harmful because someone, in this case the consumer, pays for it. there is nothing to prevent the distribution, whether paid or unpaid, of unnecessary and non-biodegradable plastic bags from being simply put to an end. that the proliferation of unnecessary packaging be tackled and that packaging which can be reused by the distributor be encouraged by taking its cost off the consumer, and more, so that it no longer constitutes a cost, either economic or environmental. it's that in the waste management hierarchy, before recycling comes reduction.
mr president, we know that organised crime derives more income from human trafficking than from drug and arms trafficking, and is often associated with them, fuelling business and other criminal activities that money laundering and tax havens facilitate. we know that the object of trafficking in women is forced marriage and situations of clandestine and/or domestic work in conditions of slavery. but the key is sexual exploitation, prostitution. prostitution is a serious social scourge that enslaves millions of women, trapped in criminal networks of human trafficking and other forms of exploitation that some want to call voluntary prostitution or prostitution by choice of women. it is a serious attack on women, on their bodies, on their physical and psychological health, on their dignity and rights. prostitution feeds a sordid exploitation of women from the poorest classes and strata, constituting a serious violation of human rights. it is therefore urgent to reject any initiatives such as those which some in portugal are now trying to take to regulate prostitution, legitimising violence against women and the trafficking associated with it.
madam president, the regulation of professional qualifications strengthens the single market and labour mobility and thus strengthens the european union in practice. it should be remembered that the bologna process has brought about convergence in the level of academic qualifications, alongside the european qualifications framework, which allows, for example, a young portuguese graduate to have his degree recognised in any other european member state. but this convergence is incomplete. the biggest problem is the specialised professions which require recognition by professional bodies, which is why i am calling for the creation of a european framework of professional qualifications which harmonises the requirements of work. i also advocate, mr commissioner, that we strengthen european federations of professional bodies where they exist and that we create them where they do not exist, so that, for example, a young portuguese person who joins the association of psychologists in portugal will automatically be recognised as having this ability and will also be automatically recognised by the association of psychologists, for example, in the united kingdom, thus allowing effective job mobility also in the specialised professions.
the repression of the chinese activists and the tibetan monk we are discussing here today shows how the people's republic of china continues to shoot itself in the foot in its attempt to silence them. the european union must publicly and privately persuade beijing to abandon censorship and repression against activists and minority representatives as in tibet. the european union cannot look the other way while beijing prepares to pass a package of laws which, under the pretext of combating terrorism, restrict fundamental freedoms and rights or a law on the management of international ngos which aims to place associations and human rights defenders at the mercy of the state authorities. we must, in a concerted and strategic way, press for the forthcoming universal periodic review of the people's republic of china to ensure that chinese civil society is heard and participates in the process. the european union also has a strategic interest in a fair relationship with china on global security, to which beijing must contribute constructively and not shelter itself in its security council status to act in a parallel international framework and to violate its own human rights obligations under the united nations charter and all other conventional instruments to which china is a party.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have discussed cases reflecting the deteriorating human rights situation in china, which has intensified since mr xi jinping took power in 2012. in 2017, after we had appealed to the chinese authorities to release for medical treatment the nobel peace prize winner liu xiaobo, we received the sad news of the death of this dissident who had cried out loudest and clearest for democracy. today, once again, we are talking about the case of five activists who have in common fighting for human rights in china, and are themselves victims of repression, who denounce, all of them, accused of subversion and incitement to separatism by the chinese regime. ladies and gentlemen, next year we will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the tiananmen massacre, an unfortunate milestone in chinese history, which well illustrates the repression of religious, cultural and political expression in modern china. the european union cannot but appeal to the chinese authorities to respect human rights and to release these political prisoners immediately.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, parliament’s position was extremely clear regarding the fact that we deplore the death of our colleague, mr ferrand. this was very clear this morning. nevertheless, are now addressing another issue, namely two very important reports on which we have done a lot of work, and on which parliament needs to come forward with a very clear position and a very clear vote. this is scheduled for wednesday. the s&d group does not agree to postpone this vote. the vote should take place on wednesday. to delay it would be a big mistake because parliament needs to come forward with a clear position on this before the leaders’ meeting addressing the same issue. again, we deplore what happened to our colleague, but we don’t believe this is a reason to postpone a vote on such an important report.
mr president, the scandal that has resulted from the knowledge of the automobile emissions cheating has shed some light on the standards by which these multinationals are governed. the profit motive overrides the environment, health, ultimately, even human life, an eloquent portrait of capitalism. the european commission was not spared. the complacency or even complicity of those who knew that the tests carried out and the reference values could not be proved was evident in this process. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a very serious matter. in practice, the rule is 'business as usual'. the revelations now made that several manufacturers have used human and other primate guinea pigs to test the health effects of diesel engine emissions confirm that we are not dealing with isolated episodes but rather with a systemic problem, and for systemic problems only systemic solutions.
mr president, trade, even in its so-called electronic form, is based on concrete production and distribution processes and on concrete social relations of production, real and not virtual, not dematerializable. the sale of goods and services in the single market, even by electronic means, expresses a link established through this market between the various producers, between workers in different countries, who are in direct competition, taking advantage of differences in wages and rights to force a general devaluation of their labour force. in a capitalist integration this is the meaning of the so-called free movement of goods and services: leveling down, increasing exploitation, conquering markets and increasing profits online or offline. it is obvious that the full potential of electronic commerce, as in general the enormous potential of scientific and technical acquisitions for the benefit of workers and consumers, has yet to be unlocked. it is true that there are obstacles in the online environment that frustrate consumers' natural expectations, but working to overcome them should not make us lose sight of this larger picture.
it is true that tax revenues are very important for the member states and it is true that there is a tax loss of millions of euros every year in relation to vat which could be spent on public services. all this is true, but there are several problems with this reform: the first is that we are currently witnessing this tendency of the european commission to act mainly in a transfer of the collection of direct taxes to indirect taxes. it should be the exact opposite, because only direct taxes ensure that there is a real redistribution. the second problem has to do with this definition of minimums. the definition of minimum rates does not eliminate the profound inequality in taxation at the level of the european union, and therefore taxation of capital income has been steadily declining in recent decades, while the burden of taxation on the working population has been increasing. and then there is the matter of substance, commissioner, and that is the end of it. it is pointless to talk about minimum rates as long as there are privileged tax jurisdictions in the european union, because there is a name for this: it is called tax evasion.
madam president, commissioner, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 is a key objective to ensure the sustainability of the planet, the quality of the air, but also to give a new impetus to the modernisation of the european economy. i welcome the work that has been done which has made an important contribution in terms of flexibility in the management of licences to improve the transparency and rationality of the market. efforts have also been made, although not with complete success, to reduce the distortions of competition caused by different national indirect cost policies. simplification factors were introduced and two major funds were set up to support the transition of industries, fostering innovation and modernisation, and protecting employment and competitiveness. we are therefore not dealing with the best, but with a reasonable proposal. efficiency and monitoring are needed for the decarbonisation and innovation objectives to be fully achieved.
madam president, there is a problem at the starting point in the approach to the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is the choice and insistence on a market approach which has clearly revealed not only its ineffectiveness but also its perversity. from that initial resounding failure, it occurred to some good souls that by putting a few patches in the system, it would finally lead us to the stated goals. let it go. the creation of a trade in pollution licences has laid the foundations for yet another multimillion-dollar scheme to generate fictitious financial assets, perhaps another speculative bubble ready to be inflated. it has done nothing, and it is not doing anything, to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gases, especially if we want to achieve it within a framework of social justice and economic sustainability. what would have been a wonderful incentive to adopt low-carbon technologies has become the biggest disincentive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on it.
madam president, in the global world we live in today, an economic power like the european union must be at the technological frontier in all sectors and in some of them must consistently take the lead. in view of its dependence on external supplies of fossil fuels and its commitment to digitisation and decarbonisation, the energy transition must be one of the sectors in which this leadership must be asserted and to which resources, talents and political determination must be channelled, not least because it calls for core knowledge such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, social sciences, and promotes the integration between digitisation and decarbonisation. i therefore welcome this report for its timeliness and the richness of its content. the european union has been ahead, but has unfortunately been losing ground in the energy transition. in clean mobility it has even been overtaken by other industrial powers. let us therefore, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, make this report a mobilizing impulse in the service of citizens and future generations.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission and this house are already working together very closely, but any achievements would require many other partners – the member states, private investors, industry and the citizens. it is through the engagement of all that we can do it, because today we cannot do it alone. looking ahead to the next framework programme, we will continue to invest. we will continue to increase the investment in clean energy, but we have to do more than that. we have to do more in terms of the way we look at innovation. firstly, we have to simplify; as mr buzek rightly said, we have to be simpler. we have to create our own brand of innovation that everybody knows. that is why we are looking at the idea of the european innovation council, the idea that we have to grasp innovation that comes from different sides, from the intersection of disciplines, as mr zorrinho rightly said, from the intersection of the physical and the digital worlds, through this idea of creating innovation that comes and solves our problems in ways and in many different places that we cannot even imagine. secondly, we have to link with the citizens: link with the citizens with mission-driven science, with ideas that people understand, with ideas that people can link to europe, and that is also part of our project. clean energy is a mission and that mission is the mission of europe; we have to put it in words that people want to understand. the other day in the committee on industry, research and energy one of the honourable members, claude turmes, gave great examples of that. he said: ‘let’s achieve a zero-carbon city. let’s achieve a zero-carbon chemical industry. let’s achieve a zero-carbon boat’. so let’s work on it.
in writing. the meaning of technological change, its assumptions and consequences - is inseparable from the economic and social context in which this change operates. if you like, from the current socioeconomic formation. in a liberalized (and therefore tendentially concentrated) energy sector, dominated from production to distribution and consumption by the interests of large groups operating in an oligopoly, the assumptions, volumes, options and results of investment in innovation will certainly be different from those which can be obtained in a framework, which we advocate, of public, democratic control over this strategic sector. it is in this framework that the challenges of sustainability and innovation can best be addressed, ensuring that the public interest prevails and safeguarding the future of the planet and its resources. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european research area (erdf) is a very good one.
madam president, the european commission, supported by a recent fatf assessment, classifies tunisia, trinidad and tobago and sri lanka as high-risk countries because of serious shortcomings in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. we do not want to stigmatise any of these countries, particularly tunisia, which is a strategic partner, a democracy which we want to see consolidated on the southern flank of the european union, a region with great risks and of the greatest importance for collective security. it is important to recognize that this is one of the legacies of the kleptocracy that for decades oppressed and misruled tunisia. the real friends of tunisia, like myself, must not lower the level of demands on this matter, quite the contrary, just as we do not lower the level of demands on the member states of the european union themselves. this delegated act fails to cover other countries in the region which certainly have much more serious problems of governance and technical capacity. libya was mentioned. we have therefore asked the commission to develop its own evaluation process without depending on the fatf. the shortcomings in the prevention and monitoring system that lead to inclusion on this list can be quickly overcome by tunisia, with so much political will in tunis and so much lobbying effort in the european parliament. it is therefore appropriate that the european union provide all assistance, including financial assistance, to support this capacity building effort by the tunisian authorities. and that is why, all things considered, i will vote in favour of the delegated act again.
mr president, tax evasion and tax dumping among member states – some transformed into tax havens or hubs for money laundering, crime and corruption, as luxleaks, panama papers and paradise papers show: this is what is fuelling growing inequalities and the consequent populism, nationalism and citizen distrust in the european governments and in the union. so, prime minister, if you agree that the eu needs additional own-resources, is it not time for the council to act for tax harmonisation – namely, setting a minimum corporate tax base to fight tax dumping in the unfair competition that is going on in the single market? and is it not smart, fair and necessary for the eu, in the context of the multiannual financial framework, to indeed enact the financial transaction tax that has already been agreed by 11 member states and, considering the evolution of the digital economy, a tax on the robotisation of production? would this not be also a way to regenerate income for member states, and not just the union?
prime minister of croatia. – mr president, thank you very much for this opportunity. i see that voting time is approaching, so the plenary is filling up a little more than in the hours before, but that is absolutely normal and to be expected. first of all, let me conclude with some general remarks. your initiative of holding a debate here in plenary in strasbourg with the prime ministers or heads of state or government of the eu member states on the future of europe is really useful and timely, and it will contribute to the strategic decisions which are ahead of us. i feel enriched by your comments. i feel more up to date in terms of the direction that the political parties in the european parliament are taking. that is very important for me, because, being fully occupied at national level, sometimes we do not fully grasp the trends at european level. there were several comments in the last round of questions, one of them on the cohesion policy and implementing measures, which ivana has just mentioned. i think that for croatia, which is undergoing a first seven-year multiannual financial framework, the experience is critical with a view to improvement for the next seven years. and you have been working on this issue as closely as anyone here in this forum, ivana. what i would like to see is swifter absorption, clearer competences, a procedure that is transparent and efficient, and that finally eu financing is more visible, clearer and more recognisable for croatian citizens. therefore, we shall urge, at european level and at national level, the adoption of the new legislative mechanisms that are tending in that direction. the comments made by alojz are basically along the same lines as those of all the slovenian colleagues. i think i have addressed this issue adequately. my message is clear. the open issues which exist among member states should be resolved by negotiations, and by using various instruments of international dispute settlement, notably peaceful ones. we believe that these processes should be credible and clean, and that is the only way for the results to be accepted and implemented. this is the key message. croatia has no ambition to stall or make more difficult our neighbours’ path to the eu. on the contrary, we have been very much a bridge, an influencing country that has unselfishly offered all the experience which is most recent, and thus most relevant for their path to the european union – trying to address the questions that were mentioned by some of the members. i am also grateful that the only mep still serving from the first directly elected parliament, my friend elmar, took the floor and mentioned the concept of equality and the representation in this house. i think that the right balance needs to be struck. it is not as easy for those national delegations which are less numerous to cover all the work of such big and important institutions. i know for a fact that smaller and bigger countries sometimes lose sight of one another’s viewpoints because we do not really understand the other’s concerns. the croatian government that i head is, as you know, a reformist government, a government which will do its utmost to make my country part of the inner circle – schengen, the eurozone and various other forms of enhanced cooperation – and to strengthen our own internal institutions and our european credibility and responsibility. in that respect, dialogue with the european parliament will be something that we will take into account and take on board when preparing our presidency of the council, which is envisaged for the first semester of 2020. i thank you all very much for this opportunity. it has been a pleasure to be back with you in strasbourg. i think that, in this parliamentary term, the european parliament has done a lot in terms of important and relevant legislative acts of the european union with long-term consequences. (applause)
the multiannual financial framework (mff) is the fundamental instrument determining the budgetary policy of the european union. it sets annual expenditure ceilings for a minimum period of five years in line with the political priorities agreed by all member states. although we are still in the full 2014-2020 mff, the discussion on the next post-2020 mff has already started. the european commission will present a first proposal as early as may this year, and the debate has already begun. we hear a lot of calls for a budget that is tailored to the ambitions of this eu, but the truth is that the next mff has its contours already well defined. one need only read the latest strategic documents produced by the european commission, from the white paper on the future of europe to the reflection paper on the future of eu finances, to guess what the key direction of the next eu budget might be. in general terms, what is emerging is a mff with fewer resources, more geared to new priorities such as 'security and defence', with the arms race and its redistributive dimension reduced and increasingly subordinated to so-called conditionality.
in writing. female genital mutilation is a crime that cannot be justified in culture or tradition. it's a violation of the human rights of over 200 million women and girls worldwide. it is estimated that more than 500,000 women in europe have been victims of this practice, with more than 6,000 cases in portugal. we cannot accept these figures, which should urge us to act more decisively as another international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation approaches. if we do nothing, the number of victims will continue to rise and millions more women will see their lives affected by a barbaric practice that prevents their full assertion and undermines equality. in the european union there are measures we have to take. in the framework of the common european asylum system we must guarantee refuge to those who flee this barbaric practice. in development cooperation we must consider eradication policies. within europe, we must ensure that criminalisation is matched by more effective monitoring and more effective prevention and awareness-raising.
in writing. according to unicef, around 200 million girls worldwide have been victims of fgm, with 80 cases of female victims reported in portugal in 2016. female genital mutilation is one of the most sordid forms of violence against women, practiced in childhood, inflicting lifelong emotional damage and affecting the most vulnerable: girls up to the age of 15. it is a serious violation of their rights, causing infections, diseases, complications during childbirth and irreparable damage to their physical, sexual and psychological health, and may even lead to their death. it is important to set concrete objectives, measures and commitments for the eradication of female genital mutilation, with a strong focus on the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women worldwide. it is essential to criminalise and punish criminals, but also to prevent them. to take actions to raise awareness and awareness in the communities where these crimes are committed. educating new generations about women's rights. the fight to eradicate female genital mutilation is inseparable from the fight to protect and strengthen women's sexual and reproductive rights, access to education and, in particular, sexual education, and to improve maternal and child health, and to pursue a path of progress and social justice.
mr president, when mugabe finally resigned the people of zimbabwe and the world applauded. a positive wave was generated, with a promise of a better future for zimbabwe. as if the misery and oppression of the regime were the work of one man. those who removed mugabe from power, like current president emmerson mnangagwa, have been accomplices and beneficiaries for decades. one cannot forget the tremendous challenges facing the country. corruption is rampant, millions have emigrated, 2017 has seen floods, cholera and typhoid outbreaks. the economy is on the verge of collapse. the announced elections may be an opportunity, but will there be genuine competition? will there really be elections? the european union, together with the african union, must be at the forefront of supporting the forces in society which want zimbabwe to begin the transition to democracy. it is essential that there be a clean and genuine transition and not merely a cosmetic one. for this the european union must be involved, it must demand, it must support the structural reforms of governance including the judicial sector, including the organisation of the electoral process and everything that concerns the democratic capacity of the party forces, the media and civil society which must be included in a real dialogue for the democratic future of the country.
mr president, madam high commissioner, the removal of dictator mugabe from power was in itself a very positive event which was, moreover, duly welcomed by the zimbabwean people in the streets and by the international community in general. the possibility has thus been opened of moving towards a new phase, a new political cycle in zimbabwe, and the european union naturally has responsibilities for a variety of reasons, for historical reasons, for reasons which have to do with what its own view of the international framework is in following up this new situation in zimbabwe. zimbabwe is now going through a period of tension as is typical of these times of great political change. the new president has already committed himself to promoting reforms with a view to democratizing society and promoting measures that promote the country's prosperity, and has already made many very positive announcements in this regard. the european council of 22 january welcomed this position and clearly expressed positive expectations of a peaceful transition. but we must be aware that transitional periods are by definition uncertain, full of potential but also full of dangers. the european union must therefore be vigilant, especially at a time when an attempt is being made to return former president mugabe to power in the context of the forthcoming elections. it would be incomprehensible, moreover, if there were no european union election observation mission to monitor these elections in view of what has happened in that country so far, that is to say, we have reasons for hope, but we have an obligation to remain vigilant.
mr president, madam high commissioner, madam high representative, i would like to address mrs atkinson, who is no longer here, to tell her that south africa and zimbabwe are completely different countries. i lived in south africa, and i know what i'm talking about, even though south africa is right next door. ladies and gentlemen, four decades of mugabe's rule have been marked by repression, fraud and corruption and the misuse of state resources which have led zimbabwe into political conflict and endemic poverty. since taking office in november, president mnangagwa has focused on strengthening the role of the military in power structures and announcing economic reforms to bring back foreign investment, leaving behind legal reforms that guarantee the independence of the judiciary, the neutrality of the electoral commission, the voting rights of the diaspora and the widening of the space for participation of civil society and the political opposition, reforms that are vital for this year's elections to be free, transparent and fair. madam high commissioner, madam high representative - i apologize if i am always wrong - i would like the union to make the political dialogue with the zimbabwean authorities conditional on progress in these reforms and the immediate release of the political prisoners currently detained.
madam president, we cannot remain silent about what is happening in afrine. until now, afrin has been a relatively safe region and has even received thousands of refugees. but that ended with the invasion and the unilateral offensive by turkey and that has already resulted in many deaths. it is a clear violation of international law and a violation of human rights. the population of afrin has been a guarantor of peace and has prevented the spread of terrorist forces. the european union must support the peace efforts of the people of afrin and must actively condemn what is erdogan's unilateral offensive. it is also essential that the european union decides to get involved so that the kurdish populations can participate in the political process for peace in syria. and finally, and fundamentally, mr erdogan must be told clearly that we do not accept blackmail and that no deal or agreement is worth more than human lives.
the erdogan regime is violating all the copenhagen criteria, as well as all turkey's obligations as a member of the council of europe: thousands of political prisoners, including hundreds of journalists, media shut down, persecution of human rights activists, justice system instrumentalised for repression, fear and persecution installed in turkish society and outside doors. this disaster cannot be dissociated from the ongoing turkish aggression in syria with the bombing of civilians and against the kurdish forces who bravely fought daesh and al-qaeda which the erdogan regime, doubly, helped infiltrate into syria and iraq. afrine is not a case of self-defense, it's an aggression involving war crimes against civilians. in addition to the humanitarian disaster, it causes a dangerous military escalation, as seen in the attack on the russian plane, and there are irreparable tensions within nato itself. the european union must condemn turkey, it must demand that the un security council stop this aggression which jeopardises the negotiations for a political solution in syria and affects regional security, including the security of the european union itself.
mr president, mr commissioner, the crackdown in turkey began long before the 2016 coup attempt that has served to silence dissenting voices. this situation is likely to be aggravated by the detention of more than five hundred citizens and all those who oppose the attack in afrin. afrin's dead are worth what in the deal we made with turkey? turkey has the right to protect its borders, but it does not have the right to enter a country, in this case syria, and decide who stays and who leaves. so far, we have about 70 civilian deaths. the targets have been kurdish militias. it is worth remembering that these are the same kurds whom the west armed. it is these kurdish men and women of courage who have been effective in the fight against the self-proclaimed islamic state. the legitimate right to security in turkey cannot be at the expense of freedom of existence or the rule of law. it's not a terrorist who thinks differently, it's not a terrorist who is different. a terrorist is one who kills out of hatred.
mr president, the nobel prize for literature, orhan pamuk, has argued that the borders of europe should not be defined on the basis of geographical and historical criteria but by the sharing of a set of values. unfortunately, instead of respect for democracy and the rule of law, which is the view of a large part of turkish civil society, we find that erdogan's country is now at the forefront of human rights violations in europe. president erdogan's regime, under the pretext of a successive and unconstitutionally renewed state of emergency, continues its purge, firing thousands of public officials, arresting journalists and students, and fiercely persecuting human rights activists and lgbti organizations. commissioner, the european citizens have already lost patience with mr erdogan's hypocrisy and constant violations of human rights, and the invasion of afrin at the end of january was the last straw that broke the camel's back of their patience with mr erdogan. the constant campaigns of terror against the brave kurdish people, to whom we europeans owe a great deal, intolerance, authoritarianism and sectarianism are not compatible with the copenhagen criteria and make negotiations for full membership of turkey in the european union definitively unfeasible. ladies and gentlemen, we must say to mr erdogan once and for all: enough!
mr president, the boiling wine that this parliament is distilling for the bolivarian revolution here is bringing venezuela back. irresponsibly and without any legitimacy of any kind, you massacre reality, molding it to your interests. they are fuelling the destabilisation of the country to the detriment of the venezuelan people and the immigrant communities, such as the portuguese, who reside there. they talk about a humanitarian crisis which is rejected by organizations such as the un, eclac or fao, they talk about violence, omitting the brutality of the actions of an opposition which they have praised here, responsible for the deaths of dozens of people. they call for dialogue, but with the neo-colonialist attitude of constantly calling for interference and aggression against a sovereign country, a practice which is common in this house, they ignore and compromise the dialogue process under way in the dominican republic which can bring about an agreement. they use the old adage that a lie told often becomes a truth. but the truth, that, you can't change. the truth that the venezuelan people have clearly stated in the last three electoral acts of support for the bolivarian revolution.
mr president, madam high commissioner, the resounding failure of the bolivarian revolution is an absolutely obvious fact and it is dramatically manifested in the living conditions of the venezuelan people. the results of this failure are well known: the suppression of public freedoms, the disregard for human rights, a situation of economic and social misery, a very serious humanitarian crisis. millions of venezuelans have already had to flee their own country. this is the accurate and objective picture of what is happening in venezuela. and in the face of this, we, of course, as the european parliament, have the duty, as the great democratic parliament that we are, to condemn clearly and without reservation this kind of regime which is a liberticidal regime, which is a regime which does not respect human rights, which is a dictatorial regime. it is clear, however, that when a negotiation process is under way, however small the chances of success, we must keep up to the very last moment a glimmer of hope that it will succeed, although we must also say that we have good reason to believe that in this process the powers that be are not open-minded, not in a good mood, as they have never been before. if there is an agreement, it will be a great surprise, a positive surprise. we must not close the door on this, but we must be particularly vigilant about what is happening in venezuela.
mr president, in recent years we have spoken many times about this great country in latin america, and not always for the best reasons. last year we awarded the sakharov prize to the venezuelan opposition, but since then the political, social and economic situation in venezuela has worsened and is evolving into a humanitarian and food crisis affecting the most vulnerable groups of the population, and very particularly children. mass economic emigration to neighbouring countries, particularly to colombia and brazil, has put severe pressure on the communities, administrations and economies of the border areas of these countries. the hyperinflation situation the country is experiencing is deeply worrying, with the imf projecting a 13 000% figure for the current year and a 15% contraction of gdp, which by the end of 2018 could lead to a cumulative loss of 50% of output since 2013. the coexistence of two legislative chambers is also a factor of strong instability, reminiscent of other world historical moments of strong social insurrection and even civil war. we therefore call once again for the venezuelan government to recognize the legitimacy of the national assembly as the sole legislative chamber. a final word of solidarity to the large immigrant and expatriate community of european citizens living and working in venezuela, including the significant portuguese community, who have experienced considerable difficulties in their daily lives, particularly in terms of security and access to food, medicine and health care. we ask only that the new european union ambassador, mrs isabel pedrosa of portugal, and you, the high representative, continue to do everything possible to help all those who believe in the future of this great country.
mr president, mr vice-president, 23 january 1958 is known as the day of the birth of democracy in venezuela, with the overthrow of dictator pérez jiménez. sixty years later, democracy is crumbling under the ideological authoritarianism of nicolás maduro, the arrests and disqualification of political dissidents and the fragmentation and demoralization of the opposition. the advance of the date of the presidential elections for 2018 and the exclusion of the democratic unity bureau from this electoral act constitute another sad episode of this long-running tragicomedy that aims to consolidate the dictatorial profile of the regime and illegitimately perpetuate mr. nicolás maduro in power. given the gravity of the humanitarian crisis in venezuela and the repeated violation of the civil and political rights of hundreds of political exiles, the selective sanctions imposed by the european union on seven senior venezuelan officials, which should, in my opinion, be extended to their families, are not, contrary to what the venezuelan government claims, the result of an interventionist policy and submission to the government of mr trump. they are a diplomatic instrument in support of justice, respect for human rights and the defence of democracy. but, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the situation in venezuela is unsustainable, death in the arms of terror and oppression has taken to the streets. madam vice-president, you said that the future of venezuela should be decided by its people, but that decision has to be free, and that, however much you may want it, will never happen if the international community continues to allow mr maduro to continue to bleed his people. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying, as i have said before, that i am undoubtedly a venezuelan and as a venezuelan i ask this parliament and the commission to take stronger action against the bolivarian government of venezuela which is oppressing the venezuelan people.
mr president, madam high commissioner, when more than two million people have to leave their country because of the lack of security and the shortage of food and medicine, which particularly affects the most vulnerable populations, we are no longer faced with a serious political problem but with a profound humanitarian crisis and the failure of a regime and a political system, with very serious political consequences. this parliament has in the past adopted a number of recommendations which have not been followed up. without breaking the tenuous lines of dialogue that still remain, it is therefore important to mobilise the international community and in particular the neighbouring countries to put pressure on the venezuelan government to restore democratic normality and to create conditions for the holding of a free, transparent and credible electoral process. in a society as deeply divided as venezuela's, only the return of the voice to the people, in conditions of full freedom, can ensure venezuela's reunion with itself, ensuring decent living conditions for its citizens and a future that is worthy of its history and the ambition of the new generations.
mr president, the underfunding of this un agency is not new, but the fundamental problem is the continuing and growing aggression of israel against palestine and its martyred people, an aggression which is aggravated by the recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel by the us administration, in explicit support of israel's zionist policy, in clear violation of international law, a position which is not detached from its strategy of destabilising the middle east. firm action is required, particularly in the context of the un, to reverse this decision, to end israel's aggression against palestine and to recognise the right of the palestinian people to build a palestinian state within the pre-1967 borders and with its capital in east jerusalem. we reiterate our longstanding solidarity with the palestinian people and their legitimate and heroic struggle over seven decades for the right to the establishment of a sovereign and viable state and for respect for the right of return of the palestinian refugees generated by israel's policy of expansion and occupation of palestine.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the composition of parliament, which i am presenting with my colleague danuta hübner, is intended to achieve what has never been done before: to ensure a parliament with fairer representation and at the same time to ensure that no country loses seats. this sounds simple, but it's never been done. whenever it has been necessary in the past to adjust the composition of parliament, it has been necessary for some to lose so that others can gain. and we know why it's different now: we are discussing the re-composition of parliament in the context of brexit and therefore have the opportunity to allocate at least some of the uk seats. of course, in the past, tensions between winners and losers have always prevented deviations from the status quo and led to pragmatic solutions where possible political compromises have always fallen short of a fairer representation. none of that is happening now in this proposal, because we have the fantastic opportunity to finally have a fairer parliament that more faithfully represents the population of the member states and at the same time ensures that no member state loses seats in parliament. this is now indeed possible and we must not lose this opportunity. the redistribution of uk seats must be limited, of course, because the people would not understand that a large country leaves the european union and the size of the parliament is not reduced. but some distribution is necessary if we do not want to lose this opportunity. and so, after listening carefully to the experts, after listening to this parliament, starting with the shadow rapporteurs, the proposal that my colleague danuta hübner and i put forward is this: first, that all countries maintain the number of members they have now. it's, i would say, the basic principle, no one loses seats. secondly, that in addition 27 of the 73 seats in the united kingdom which will be left vacant be distributed among those states which are currently under-represented. it is a fair, balanced, politically viable proposal which has already been approved by the committee on constitutional affairs and which i hope will be approved today by this house. our key to the division is not the application of any of the many mathematical formulas that have been discussed and that have not achieved political or technical consensus. but it is not a simple pragmatic solution like the one that has been in force until now. what we are proposing is a solution based on principles, the principle of degressive proportionality and the principle that no state loses seats. by redistributing only 27 of the 73 seats, we are naturally also proposing a reduction in the parliament and leaving a margin of 46 seats available for future enlargements or for the eventual creation of transnational lists. and let me say just a few words about the transnational lists. and the first is to clear up a misunderstanding. this report is about the composition of parliament, not about the transnational lists. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, transport, energy, transport and energy, and the environment. and that is why the report says that this council decision is a precondition. that is what is at stake and no more than that. i hope that no point of disagreement will prevent this parliament from sending a clear message to the council and proposing a parliament ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we fully support the composition and allocation of seats designed by the co—rapporteurs, but we are very worried about the transnational list political recommendations in this report. we have managed to build a sound and trustworthy democracy here in the european union, where there is an equilibrium and balance between majorities and states. if we accept the constitutional frankenstein monster that is the transnational list, we accept something that does not exist in any federal state, as mr verhofstadt has proved here today because he cannot give one example of it, not even in belgium that has quite a similar system. if we are not a federation, why should we have a joint constituency that not even federations have? do we really need, in order to build a democracy in the european union, to have a top—down elite selected and co-opted by european parties, or – what is really very dangerous – put forward by european movements of national parties that can divide, even in regional terms, the european union’s public sphere? please think about it and vote against the transnational lists paragraph. (applause)
mr president, what is at stake in this debate is much more than the so-called transnational lists, an artificial creation based on a federalist vision that has nothing to do with the reality of europe and that is contrary to the need for a europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal states. but they do not want to make the transnational lists a screen to hide everything else. and everything else is a proposal for the composition of the european parliament which prolongs existing imbalances, which reduces the possibilities of a more faithful representation, because it is more plural, of the will of each people, which aggravates injustices by renouncing the possibility of compensating, as was possible and fair, some member states for the loss of members during enlargements. the amendments we have tabled to the report are intended to correct these imbalances and the unjustified discrimination against countries like portugal. if we resume the debate on a fairer basis, and even within the rules laid down in the treaty, we can reach a fair and acceptable proposal, which is neither fair nor acceptable.
he asks under the blue card procedure. madam president, briefly, just to ask how the quality of democracy in the european union is strengthened by transnational lists where only the representatives of a few countries are elected, invariably the largest which, because of the human nature and the size of the countries, therefore control the essential political groups. in a transnational list, the first of these lists will be elected. do you really believe that the representatives of the small and mediumsized countries of the european union will be at the top of these lists? that's the question i'll leave you with.
madam president, the european parliament is the only european body, the only institution that is directly elected by the citizens and on a proportional basis, and i believe that it should remain so. we already have a sufficient disproportion in relation to the other european institutions, in particular in relation to the european council, where six countries hold 70% of the votes, and that is why i am not in favour of transnational lists. i don't think they add democracy, i think they subtract democracy. but i must say, madam president, that as far as the composition of parliament is concerned, the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs is a serious one and the fairest of all those we have seen so far. it is the only proposal in which small and mediumsized countries do not lose representation, and i know that it is very popular to say that we should all win and that our countries should be more represented, but i also know that, in saying this, we would have to have a parliament far above the limit set in the treaties and that obviously someone would have to be removed, only it is not said who will be removed. it's not satisfactory. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the fairness with which they have distributed the seats among the various member states. the principle of proportionality in reverse has finally been fully realised. but this relative justice, which has been achieved here, will always remain incomplete if we are not able to take the decisive step towards greater integration at this stage of the european construction process and to really get the union's institutions to discuss european problems in the election campaigns. the election campaigns in the various member states for the european parliament are centred around national problems, they are a remake of national elections. we must therefore take the decisive step of discussing europe in the elections to the european parliament. that this parliament should be the representative of the european people and not of national achievements.
the rapporteur. madam president, two points mark this debate. first, as one would expect, the discussion on transnational lists, but i would like to stress that what this report does is to leave a set of places available which can be used in the future, either in enlargements or in the eventual creation of transnational lists. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the establishment of a transnational electoral list. more importantly, this debate has revealed a very broad consensus on the rapporteurs' proposal for the distribution of seats, and that is very important. i believe there is good reason for very broad support for this proposal, not only from those who see their unfair under-representation finally corrected, but also from those small and medium-sized states which have gone into this debate fearing that they will lose seats once again and who see their representation threefold guaranteed. firstly, because the proposal does not reduce seats to any member state, secondly, because it does not enshrine any mathematical formula which implies a loss in the future, and thirdly, because it guarantees that even in the event of enlargement and even in the event of transnational lists, this distribution of seats is not affected. i hope therefore that we can get a clear message from this parliament to the council for a proposal which will allow for a fairer parliament and strengthen european democracy.
the report setting out the composition of the european parliament following the withdrawal of the united kingdom sets out an appropriate model which makes it possible to correct certain imbalances in representation, to ensure that no member state loses seats and to leave room for possible future enlargements or for the implementation of the principle of transnational lists, which was previously approved by parliament. i would like to stress the excellent work done by the rapporteurs and those who worked with them most directly, who, among other things, have managed to ensure that no country loses representatives, a fact which, if it did happen, would be very difficult to explain to national public opinion in the context of the freeing up of seats resulting from the departure of british members. the report also stresses the exclusive competence of the council to promote, if it so decides and unanimously, the legal framework for the introduction of transnational lists. i believe that these can be a positive step towards deepening european democracy, provided that distortions in the democratic representation of the various member states and of the various political groups and movements within the institutional framework of the union are avoided.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gonzález pons, for his proposal and for the cooperation we have had in recent weeks. this proposal does not simply regulate the possible candidacy of commissioners for the european parliament, while safeguarding the principles of transparency and independence. that's important, but it's not enough. this parliament should take the opportunity to reaffirm its political support for the spitzenkandidaten process successfully launched in the last european elections. we cannot go back on this mechanism if we want to tackle the democratic deficit, to give citizens' choices a meaning and to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the commission. we have an opportunity here to send a message from parliament that the european institutions and the citizens should be brought closer together. we, on the other hand, will not miss this opportunity.
madam president, first i would like to underline the fact that the so-called spitzenkandidaten procedure has nothing to do with transnational lists. back in 2014 we had this procedure of spitzenkandidaten and it was embraced at european level without any joint european constituency. so, one thing is totally different from the other. then, let me tell you something that is very important. we fully support this idea of the spitzenkandidaten procedure but if the council says ‘no we are not going to change our view’, we are not dependent on any regulation of the council, because this is our interpretation of the treaties. the treaty says that the outcome of the elections should be considered and that a vote in parliament is required. this is sufficient to give a constitutional basis to the spitzenkandidaten process. so we prefer a clear and transparent council regulation, but if we don’t have that we will have the same position, because this is our interpretation, our reading of the constitutional solution in accordance with the treaties.
madam president, i want to be clear: transnational lists are an undemocratic mechanism. it means they don't learn anything from their mistakes. it's like giving the recipe for solving problems more than what caused them. without a mandate from the national parliaments, they want to get a proposal through the european parliament which will radically change the way in which the representatives of their respective countries are elected. let me also be clear: portugal is a country, not a european region under the leadership of mr verhofstadt. it is considered normal or acceptable that candidates from small and mediumsized countries are chosen by the leaders of the big countries which control the european parties and which, of course, will benefit first of all from their own interests. it is allowed for a european party which includes more than one party from the same country to exclude some parties from the lists in favour of others which have more influence in the leadership of those parties. they don't even care about making it easier for radical candidates in some countries to spread their message to all the other countries where they will also gain votes and influence. i must say that these radicals have not yet reached portugal and i would not like to see them voted for there. finally, they do not even consider, as has already been abundantly stated, that for the national parliament of the federal states, voting is done on state lists and not on national lists. i'm finished, madam president. transnational lists are nonsense. worse than that, they're dangerous nonsense.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, one percent of the european population now holds one third of the total wealth, while one third of the european population holds just one percent of the total wealth. so here we have something fundamentally wrong and something unacceptable, because this means having a lot of people in poor working conditions. the most shocking thing concerns young people because we have around one third of young people in europe living in poverty. this is just unacceptable and this is something which is spreading social tension, hindering growth and undermining democracy and trust in the european union. this is the outcome of the accumulated effects of a wrong economic policy, bringing austerity and social unfairness. we must reverse this. it is possible – just look at the portuguese case – and now we have a powerful solution, which is to implement the european social pillar. with this pillar we want first of all to address the situation of children in europe, to end child poverty and to address the situation of young people, paving the way for better jobs and access to skills, making sure that everybody can have a proper, decent labour contract and access to social protection. but how can we deliver all this? we need to have serious work to update social and labour law. we need to promote an economic policy focusing on investment and jobs for the future. we need to have a fiscal policy providing good public services. we need to have a tax policy addressing added value where it is, but most of all we need to make sure that the upcoming european budget will be used to promote this social pillar. i really hope that with the commission and the presidency we will move in this direction. i really regret also that the first row of the epp and alde groups are not present and participating in this debate. they are absent on this.
mr president, i would like to begin by addressing my colleague maria joão rodrigues and say that it was deeply regrettable that she referred to the presidency of the epp. firstly, because the chairman of his political group is not here; secondly, because it was a profound disrespect for all the members of this house. if the socialist group thinks that the epp is represented only on the front line of this house, we are all here in the committee on employment and social affairs to debate this. and it is also deeply regrettable, my dear colleague, your miserable speech. we must have european policies that translate into real social leverage. we must have european policies so that economic growth can be guaranteed and inequalities can be tackled, so that a whole society can be leveraged with proportionate and differentiated policies. this implies a greater focus on the middle class, and the middle class in our country has low wages, very close to the minimum wage, but they pay taxes, they pay contributions, they don't have the same supports in access to their children's education, they don't have the same supports in social security, they don't have the same supports in access to health care. it is a class which, in net terms, is earning far below the minimum and we cannot have a miserabilist discourse which forgets the middle class because the europe i stand for is a europe of equal opportunities, it is not exclusive to another class, it must have differentiated policies applicable to all, so that we can pursue the european dream.
madam president, commissioner, today we are talking about socioeconomic inequalities as if they were the result of god's will or some natural disaster, but they are not, they are the result of concrete policies, many of them imposed by this european union. the result of these policies is the liberalization of the labour market, precariousness, low wages, high unemployment, unsustainable levels of poverty. the commissioner has put forward proposals, amongst others, for wage increases and also for the creation of new jobs. what i am asking you, commissioner, is how is this compatible with the recommendation that the european commission made to portugal and spain just this week, to say that we need to go further in reforms that reduce excessive labour protection in permanent contracts. commissioner, it is precarious contracts that deepen inequality, it is low wages that deepen inequality. we need to create jobs, but jobs with rights. in portugal the minimum wage has been raised against brussels, the cuts against brussels have been relaxed and i hope that the labour legislation against brussels will also be strengthened.
madam president, the data we have are a clear reflection of the reality of growing and tremendous inequalities in the eu, inequalities aggravated by the european union's austerity policies, which in countries like portugal have had very serious consequences. the policies of the eu and the parties that blindly follow it in portugal have brought about precariousness, the brutal increase in exploitation, labour deregulation, unemployment, poverty, the exodus of hundreds of thousands of citizens. the struggle of the workers and the people, the firm action of the portuguese communists, has forced the reversal of many onerous measures, has allowed the increase of incomes, the recovery of social rights, with a significant impact on the population, albeit of limited scope. it is the european union's economic governance and policy framework that imposes these limitations on the necessary labour and social advances, development and investment policies of the country. this is demonstrated by the country-specific recommendations or the latest quarterly report for the euro zone which states that portugal has excessive labour protection for permanent contracts, unmasking and exposing the achievement that is the social pillar.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first i’d like to acknowledge and to underline that both danuta hübner and jo leinen have really been fighters for the improvement of the electoral law of the european union and the european elections, and so we follow this effort and this clear aim. i understand that our concern is that we have to modernise electoral law, we have to carry out a lot of improvements. today we have taken a major step by giving electoral law the final kick-off for its reform, because the issue of those national lists was very divisive, and a lot of states had them as a red line. with the vote here, that was quite clear. now i think that we have a way forward for carrying out other reforms because, in one way, we were captured and imprisoned by the issue of transnational lists. i’m not here pleading against or in favour: i’m saying that it was an obstacle to changing other electoral-law issues. now we are in a position to carry out the improvements that we really need, and so the council will probably be in a better position to consider the different proposals and to see if they can reach a consensus on improving our electoral rules.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam minister, there is a need, an urgent need, for electoral reform in the european union which brings elected members of parliament closer to the citizens who vote, which reverses the increasing trend of abstention from voting, which, in short, gives this parliamentary institution credibility with those we represent. the european union began to be built on the smoking ruins of the second world war and since then this construction has been carried out step by step, sometimes faster, sometimes slower. unfortunately, this parliament has today missed a rare opportunity to take a decisive step towards greater european integration. by rejecting the possibility of a european constituency, this parliament has postponed for who knows how long a reform which would bring new blood into this parliamentary institution and give it increased legitimacy. the construction of europe will therefore continue to proceed at the pace of possible compromises between the selfish interests of the various member states, rather than being open also to political commitments directly undertaken with the european citizens. unfortunately, we will continue to have elections for this parliament whose electoral campaigns will be about the internal affairs of the member states and not about the real problems of europe. today europe is behind in its historical process. at the moment it seems that the eurosceptics who have been hiding behind a discourse, behind a europeanist rhetoric, have joined forces with the most radically anti-european sectors of this parliament.
mr president, the european union is founded on values, on the rule of law, for the benefit of all europeans. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. today we are debating and condemning the actions of the romanian government, not the romanian citizens. on the contrary, it is important to make it clear that it is only in defence of these citizens, and more broadly of all european citizens, that we call on the romanian government to respect the most fundamental values of its country and of our union. in no member state can we allow the independence of the judiciary, which is essential to the proper functioning of a democratic society, to be called into question. in no member state can we allow corruption not to be fought and punished vigorously. in no member state can we allow criminal law to be changed for our own benefit. mr president, the line taken by the romanian government and its leaders is unacceptable. i therefore call on us to be clear in our support for the european commission and what it has done to support the romanian government. but i'll conclude as clearly as i started: we must never compromise on what is fundamental, and the european union is a citizenship project based on the rule of law.
mr president, i went to romania last november to speak about the portuguese prohibition of bearer shares. i met with romanian ngos and journalists and was impressed with their high quality and commitment, and it pains me to hear that a draft law that was endorsed by the romanian senate in the meantime is actually closing the space for civil society. these ngos and journalists work to expose and stop corruption. this debate should actually be about the fight against corruption in romania because the justice system, despite the constraints, seems to be working, and so is the romanian national anti-corruption directorate, which, working together with olaf, concluded that the leader of the ruling social democrat party (psd), mr liviu dragnea, is responsible for serious fraud using eu funds, ‘creating an organised criminal group’ for that purpose, and ‘misusing his position for personal gain’. i am reading this from olaf’s report: it is a press release of 13 november. so my question to romanian colleagues and the government – and i wish the minister could speak – is how come this person has not been relieved of his position in the parliament and in the party? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to congratulate the vice-president, who is also president of the european investment bank, and to stress the importance of the european investment bank even in promoting the values of the european union. a bank that is important both internally and externally and, of course, has the mission and the obligation to defend the objectives set by the european union in the projects it finances both inside and outside the european union. and these are goals that we all agreed on: supporting growth, supporting employment, acting to prevent and mitigate climate change, supporting sustainable growth and development and tackling new challenges, such as the issue of migration, by ensuring that investments in partner countries help political stability and that people have opportunities in their countries. we therefore welcome the reinforcement, also proposed in this report, of the external action guarantee fund to 32.3 billion euro and the flexibility which is always needed in the management of the fund, particularly between the beneficiary regions, just as we have always been striving for greater transparency. i am sure that with this strengthening, with the adoption of this report, the european investment bank will make even more investments where they are needed and in particular in the partner countries.
mr president, i would like to greet the vice-president of the commission, the president of the european investment bank and to highlight and also welcome all the work that the european investment bank has done, work that is fundamental for sustainable investment, both public and private investment. in 2017, it is truly impressive the work done and the financing of projects worth €78 billion, which generated an investment of around €250 billion, supporting more than 285 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, helping to create and maintain employment. a european investment bank that has supported projects in areas we consider strategic and that has also evolved with the efsi, with the juncker plan, the european fund for strategic investments, of which i was a correlator. a fund which has already mobilised over 257 billion euros, which will not replace cohesion policy, but which also cares about territorial cohesion. here too, investment platforms are needed to complete the energy union, the digital agenda and, in this respect, platforms between member states are essential, and that is why we have reinforced the concept of additionality and also asked that the projects approved in the juncker plan take account of local reality. and so i would like to welcome once again and highlight the positive work that the european investment bank has done.
in writing. in many parts of the world - and not just in developing countries - we are witnessing authoritarian phenomena against democracy and human rights, often manifested in the reduction of the space for civil society to intervene. certain groups such as women, young people, lgbti people and minorities, roma communities, indigenous peoples, people with disabilities, the press or human rights defenders are preferred targets of repression, limitation of the rights to freedom of expression, assembly and association. the eu and its member states have a duty to lead by example in scrupulously respecting the fundamental rights of civil society and to counter any negative trends in this area. but the eu also has a duty to act when these fundamental rights are not respected in third countries with which it has commercial or diplomatic relations, using its external policy instruments, notably human rights and development instruments and bilateral agreements with third countries.
author. mr president, commissioner, in 2016, at least 281 activists were killed. so many others are listed as missing. the risks faced by activists are increasing and the space for human rights defenders to carry out their activities is shrinking around the world. freedom in the world in 2017 reached its worst level in 12 years. we know that freedom and democracy are indeed under threat. activism is more dangerous when it's done by women. women who dedicate themselves to defending others face increased problems. there are activists who have been illegally detained, activists who are raped, slandered, attacked even with acid, women of causes who see their children, family and friends threatened. the european union has a policy on gender equality and the protection of human rights in its external relations. their delegations carry out activities and we fund programmes precisely for this purpose. how many women human rights defenders are supported by the european union? what cross-data assessment is there on the impact of these measures in the countries receiving european funding? what is the relationship between the commitments made by the european union in support of human rights defenders and what is actually happening on the ground? are there any concrete results? what monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are in place and are being used to ensure that all these objectives are met? how are we ensuring that all delegations are actually complying with the guidelines on this matter? who protects those who dedicate themselves to protecting others? plus, how are we gonna protect them?
madam president, madam commissioner, summertime was first introduced over 100 years ago. at the time, it brought two great benefits: the enjoyment of the sunny day, synchronizing work with leisure, and the savings on the energy bill, which today is only marginal, as we all know. at first sight it seems that this resolution is only concerned with the inconvenience of having to change the timetable, but this inconvenience has to be assessed accurately, since all the evidence gathered so far seems to be inconclusive. in health, we should consider, on the one hand, the adaptation to a one-hour difference in the circadian rhythm and, on the other hand, the gains we have from increased sun exposure in diseases such as depression, osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and respiratory diseases. however, whatever decision we take, we must act with caution and responsibility when we ask to discontinue the biannual clock. we must not forget, however, that if this decision can be left to the individual member states, as it may be and as we risk, we will create a schedule that is even more difficult to manage. on the other hand, there are not three time zones, there are four time zones in the european union. let's not forget the azores.
the arrest of oyub titiev has a very special significance, given that he is a sakharov prize laureate. sakharov, who was, as we know, a victim of communist despotism, has become a universal symbol of human dignity and the struggle for freedom. a sakharov laureate carries with him precisely this dimension. he himself is a symbol of freedom, he himself is a symbol of the struggle for human dignity. his arrest, which is totally illegitimate and unjustified, must be strongly condemned by this parliament. but we must of course go further and demand the immediate release of a man who has committed no crime other than fighting for human rights, fighting for freedom, fighting for the dignity of his fellow citizens. that is why we must make a very clear denunciation of what has been a totally unacceptable behaviour on the part of the russian federation in the field of human rights, in the field of total disregard for fundamental freedoms.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011, thousands of demonstrators in the symbolic tahrir square in cairo showed the world their will to fight for democracy and respect for human rights. seven years later, virtually nothing remains of the optimism of those days. a large-scale repressive atmosphere is being experienced in the run-up to presidential elections, which are scheduled for the end of march, and there is persecution of lgbti and human rights activists and journalists. there is an unprecedented number of enforced disappearances, confessions obtained under torture, arbitrary trials and, most seriously of all, an alarming increase in death sentences and executions, especially since the coming to power of president el sisi. under the pretext of fighting terrorism, the courts handed down 186 death sentences in 2017, three times the number imposed in 2016, and last january alone, 22 civilians were hanged after being sentenced to death by military courts. the european union, which is egypt's main economic partner, must urge the egyptian authorities to comply with their international human rights obligations, strongly condemn the use of the death penalty in that country and call for a moratorium on all impending executions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in haiti between 150 and 500 000 children between the ages of 7 and 14, the vast majority of them girls, are lent by their parents to families who employ them in domestic work, in conditions of virtual servitude. they are prevented from going to school, overworked, subjected to physical, verbal and sexual violence, and often victims of international child trafficking and prostitution networks. it is a sad irony that the country where the first abolition of slavery in history took place, and the only one whose independence began a slave revolt, maintains in the 21st century the tradition of the restavek. this authentic form of modern slavery is still culturally acceptable today thanks to the extreme poverty of the population, especially the rural population. the absence of social services and free public schools has been further exacerbated by the devastating 2010 earthquake and subsequent natural disasters. the european union must condemn this shameful situation and urge the haitian authorities to bring their domestic legislation into line with international obligations on human rights and the rights of the child and to put an end to the impunity with which child trafficking networks operate in that country.
mr president, it is a point of order at the table. we have already brought this matter to the house. we are speaking about a report which is before the members of this house in only one language, english. this is a clear violation of the principle of multilingualism, which is also reflected in the cuts this house has approved, particularly in the translation mechanisms. it is unacceptable for members to pronounce on a document which is presented in only one language.
mr president, commissioner, because of the situation in venezuela, some eight thousand citizens of european origin have returned to an outermost region of europe, the autonomous region of madeira. i would like to know, and i am glad to be here, commissioner, what support and measures the commission has available to help this region, which is so small and which receives so many migrants and which, since yesterday, has been battered by a great storm.
the pcp expresses its solidarity with the men, women and children who are victims of the war of aggression against the syrian arab republic and calls for an end to the heinous aggression which has been the cause of the death, destruction and suffering that has been inflicted on that country for the past seven years. we therefore reject propaganda that whitewashes aggression and those responsible for it, as well as the real aims of those who commit, defend or promote it. after having created, financed and armed daesh, divided iraq and promoted the war in syria, the united states of america and its allies - especially israel, turkey and france - are seeking to overcome the defeat inflicted on their terrorist groups and to take back, now with their own hands, the objective of dividing syria, as they did in iraq and libya. they are backed, once again, by a giant media operation that reproduces war propaganda to support their goals.
mr president, at their last meeting some leaders proved that they are not really understanding what a budget to pave the way for a better future in the european union should be. of course we need to cope with new challenges – for example, managing migration means europe delivering on better cooperation in development and peace-building with its entire neighbourhood – that’s for sure. but europe also need to be ambitious on programmes which have proved to be a success, such as erasmus, the programme for science and technology or the youth initiative. most of all, we need to ensure strong means to provide social and territorial cohesion in europe, because without that there is no unity among european citizens. this also means – because convergence is a central problem for us – that, when it comes to the eurozone, we need to include a fiscal capacity in the upcoming multiannual financial framework. so how can we deliver on all this? well, the answer is easy. we have to accept, once and for all, that we need new own resources to finance our common budget. and there is a further matter on which the leaders were too shy, namely the right way to understand european democracy, because some of them are hesitant about the need for european parties to put up their own candidates in european elections, presenting their own programmes in such a way that citizens can choose not only legislators but also executive power. from our side, this is very clear. the parliament … (the president asked the speaker to conclude)i have two minutes. (the president urged the speaker to conclude briefly)usually i am very precise, mr president. parliament will elect a president of the european commission only if that person is properly presented to the electorate. from our side this is very clear.
mr president, for those who support the advancement of the european project, the conclusions of the last informal council are a cause for concern, but the council was right in endorsing the proposal which was adopted here in parliament on the re-composition of the european parliament and which was adopted by a large majority and in which i had the honour of being a co-rapporteur. in a difficult issue, parliament has proved its ability to generate fair solutions and broad consensus. the council would do well to listen more closely to this parliament on other matters too, such as the multiannual financial framework. the commissioner told us here that one of the greatest threats to the future of the european project is the worsening of differences. there are those in the council and the commission who are now advocating cuts in cohesion and convergence policies. it would be good if this european parliament were heard here too.
mr president, i would like to focus on these additional issues to say that the composition is very balanced and i am very happy that there is a positive response. secondly, i am also very happy that transnational lists were not considered. this is very important because, for true federalists and true pro-europeans, there is no experience of a joint and single constituency in the united states, the federal republic of germany or in switzerland. this would create an imbalance between the countries. if you want to change the rules in parliament on the balance of the countries, you have to change it first in the council and then we will see. finally, i fully understand the position of the council in the spitzenkandidaten issue, but they also have to understand ours, because we have to approve the candidate, we have to approve their programme, and we have to approve the college. we have three opportunities to reject the council’s proposal.
in writing. other the european council meeting on 23 february last once again addressed the brutal and unending catastrophe in syria, where we continue to see the loss of human life, the spread of terror, misery and disgrace. the council called for the immediate implementation of a ceasefire. fortunately, this ceasefire has been declared, although it has been violated in the meantime. this is a first step, but we must not forget that this first step has already been taken in the past, without the conditions for establishing a lasting peace having been created. the european union and its member states must act uncompromisingly and without excluding from the outset the use of stronger forms of intervention, if necessary, to put an end once and for all to this tragedy which takes lives, destroys a country and disgraces humanity.
the definition of the next multiannual financial framework is fundamental to consolidating the european project. the informal council of 23 february provided the european leaders with a first opportunity to send a credible and consistent message to the european citizens on the way forward. as a first approach, it is natural that positions have still been very different, but as we approach a new electoral cycle in the european context, it is essential that the next steps be ambitious and mobilizing. in an increasingly competitive global context, the european union must make convergence the keyword in all its strategies: internal convergence to harness synergies and their full potential, and external convergence with the highest standards of innovation and sustainability. competitiveness, cohesion, agricultural, migration, security and defence policies must be interlinked by a strong drive for innovation and social inclusion. this is the approach that will make the most of the budgetary resources made available by member states and of own resources, in particular those resulting from the collection in transnational value chains in the financial, environmental or digital fields.
mr president, commissioner, of the european union's priorities for the united nations human rights council, i would like to emphasize the idea that all members of this un council must uphold the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights. but i cannot fail to mention that the united nations remains tied to countries which clearly violate human rights. despite all the important humanitarian work done, the force expected from the united nations is now different. the united nations must be reformed urgently. some of its difficulty of action, largely due to the veto power in the security council, is proving inadequate to the new world order. far from promoting conflict resolution, the right of veto has been used to allow violations of fundamental rights, as in the case of syria. how can the united nations accept that members of its own council persist in violating human rights? how can the united nations watch the decline of, say, venezuela itself? how can the united nations stand by in this silence?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i would like to apologise on behalf of angélique delahaye, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, who unfortunately could not be here today. on her behalf, i would like to share some key points with you. first of all, i would like to thank pilar ayuso for the work that she has done. it is a good base for the negotiation to come with the council. i would also like to point out that this dossier is more technical than political, and it does not deal with health issues. nonetheless, it is of great importance for all the spirit sectors, especially in regard to european exports. the production of spirit drinks in europe accounts for the second biggest share. in fact, the system of the protection of geographical indications plays a huge role in the eu’s trade policy. europe not only succeeds in obtaining protection for its quality labels on external markets, but also encourages third countries to set up equivalent systems, and this is a very important issue for us. i would also like to highlight the diversity of the products. it is impossible to have a one—size—fits—all approach. as each member state has its own culture and tradition that is reflected in consumer habits, it makes sense that labelling also acknowledges each country’s specificities.
mr president, reliable and credible information on the content and the value of traditional practices and territories of origin are two key components for the european union to achieve its objectives of transparency and identity in the field of spirit drinks. it is also essential to enhance the historical, cultural and economic dimension associated with traditional production methods by defending designations of origin, ensuring their reliability and protecting the practices associated with the differentiation of high quality products. it is very important to ensure in particular that the specific formula adopted in the parliamentary committee is respected in the context of the dynamic ageing of brandy. in a context of massive global trade in spirits, too, the european union must set the example because by setting the example it ensures that consumers have relevant information to make their purchasing choices and improves their competitiveness in commercial terms.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am of the opinion that europe cannot be reduced to the economic dimension, to the single market. i am in favour of a people's europe based on fundamental rights and the rule of law. respect for fundamental rights is one of the criteria for accession to the european union and we cannot accept that they can be forgotten by the member states after they join the union. this parliament, as the representative of all european citizens, must be vigilant and uncompromising towards those who disregard these rights or fail to protect them. unfortunately, recent experience confirms the need for more effective mechanisms for monitoring and sanctioning abusive states. in recent years, men and women have come to our shores fleeing war and oppression, refugees who, under international law, have come in search of protection. sadly, we weren't up to it either. we are currently living in a situation of severe discrimination and racism which european leaders admit but do not want to confront. according to statistics, a large number of europeans are discriminated against on the grounds of age, gender, colour, sexual orientation or any number of other grounds. i regret that every year we have to remind you that the member states continue to block a directive on something so essential: equality for all before the law. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr frank engel, on his excellent report and on his success in demonstrating that although the union is the world's strongest defender of fundamental rights, there is still a lot of work to be done.
the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia closed on 31 december 2017, 24 years after its establishment. the trial of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and violations of the geneva conventions was a complex exercise, with 161 indictments (of which 90 convictions, 13 referrals to national jurisdiction, 37 deaths or withdrawal of indictment and 19 acquittals), 4 650 witnesses, 10 800 trial days and 2 and a half million pages of case law. i note the european union's continued cooperation in the proceedings, by freezing assets or banning the movement of accused persons in its member states, and recall the requirement for cooperation with the icty in the accession agreement with croatia. i would therefore argue that any negotiation with serbia must take this matter into account. the court's contribution to international criminal law is undeniable and i hope that the case law produced will be useful for future similar mechanisms. unfortunately, we are witnessing today war crimes and flagrant violations of international humanitarian law, with syria in the foreground. i hope that the deepening of the principles of individual criminal responsibility in war situations will contribute to future determined action against the criminals who are already exterminating entire populations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr vice-president katainen, first of all i would like to thank you for the clear, sober, and i would say respectful, way in which you have explained this matter to this house. in fact, to have this debate today in this house on this occasion is more like a reality show than a parliament. there is nothing in the conduct of josé manuel durão barroso, either during his two terms as president of the commission, or in the period that followed, or since his return to private life, that can be pointed out to him from the point of view of ethics or from the point of view of correct behaviour. there is perhaps personal persecution, there is perhaps enmity, there are perhaps people in this parliament who did not like the political lines he took. and that is why every time he speaks, every time he appears, every time he performs a normal act of his private life, he is the target of attack in this parliament. it is strange that in a week when the manafort scandal is coming out and there are even high dignitaries in the commission who are involved in ukraine issues, we are not here debating that and are debating whether or not josé manuel barroso should have had a beer in a hotel bar in brussels. poor parliament that wastes time on such a subject and does not respect those who have served it with dignity and with a sense of ethics, as is the case with josé manuel durão barroso.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, contrary to what president juncker has said, the meeting between mr barroso and vice-president katainen is not a non-issue. i am not surprised that mr barroso broke his commitment not to lobby the european institutions when the compatibility of his employment at goldman sachs with his duties as former president of the european commission was in question. but the person who has to explain this to the european parliament and the citizens is vice-president katainen, who knew very well that it was inappropriate, not very advisable, to meet with mr barroso, given the controversy caused by his appointment to that private bank after he had been president of the commission. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the european union, which will be presented to the european parliament in the near future. obviously, contrary to what president juncker and the vice-president himself have said, this was not a friendly drink, and so there are too many contradictions and shifts in the narrative, mr vice-president. we need to know, we need you to clarify what specific trade and defence issues you discussed with mr durão barroso, an employee of goldman sachs.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, during the year 2017, once again, taxpayers were forced to pay for the bailout of italian banks, with a massive inflow of 17 billion of public money. this money taken directly from the pockets of the workers was used to save two failing banks and protect their bondholders. in portugal, taxpayers' money continues to pay for the resolutions of bpn, banif and banco espírito santo. we are also witnessing a wave of mergers and the creation of giant financial groups, all of them controlled by foreign groups, in other words, the complete opposite of what was announced by the banking union, which was created to end the banks that were too big to fail and to end the hoarding of public funds to pay for the evils of speculation and financial irresponsibility. for the cfp, the banking union was designed to strengthen the role of finance and remove any capacity for national states to intervene in the financial system. we know today that the surveillance is a sham and that the resolution is not credible. our proposal is very clear: only public control of banking can put the financial system at the service of the economy and development.
in writing. the year 2017 saw a familiar story repeat itself: once again, taxpayers were forced to pay ransom to private banks. the rescue of italian banks involved €17 billion of public funds. this money, taken directly from the pockets of the workers, was used to save two failing banks and protect their bondholders. in portugal, taxpayers' money continues to pay for the decisions of the bpn, banif or bes. but the much-hyped banking union, served to the people sweetened by the false promise of an end to bailouts made with taxpayers' money, actually means much more than the continuation of these same bailouts. we are also witnessing a wave of mergers and the drive towards monopolistic concentration of the financial sector on a european scale, with the creation of giant financial groups, all of them controlled by large groups, in the case of portugal all foreign. that is, all the opposite of what was announced with the banking union, supposedly created to end the "too big to fail" banks and end the regaboof of public funds to pay for the consequences of speculation and financial irresponsibility. only public control of banking can put the financial system at the service of the economy and development.
mr president, the tax evasion and money laundering schemes highlighted by the panama papers and paradise papers, among other scandals, show how there is a cross-border web of intermediaries, including consultants, bankers, lawyers, accountants and other service providers who have specialised in designing tax evasion and laundering schemes for large multinationals, for wealthy clients and for mafias, to avoid taxes and other legal obligations with opacity and impunity. that is why this commission proposal, which follows parliament's call in several reports, is so important. it aims to ensure that crossborder schemes designed by tax intermediaries or taxpayers are reported to the tax authorities of each member state, including information collected in the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities in the european union. the excellent report by emmanuel maurel, which will be adopted today, is intended to strengthen the commission by parliament. let us hope that governments in the council will not reduce the scope of reporting obligations and the sharing of information collected so that we can adopt robust legislation without subterfuge against transparency and accountability.
madam president, this report by javier nart is very important. daexe is not finished, even if territorially defeated. they've killed other heads of terrorist networks, from al qaeda to boko haram. the fight against terrorism must be at the heart of the european union's security agenda, with particular attention to the mena region, without being exploited by the political, geopolitical and sectarian ambitions of regional states. in this context, the priority is to monitor and block the financing of terrorist networks via systems such as wallets and cryptocurrencies, but also by investing in legal businesses, in particular in iraq, turkey, but also in the european union itself. commissioner moscovici himself, in a report on 'carriage of goods' vat fraud a year ago, showed that €50 billion a year is diverted and recycled by terrorist organisations, including terrorist groups such as al qaeda. our member states continue to reject the reforms which have been proposed in the vat system to avoid this. the fourth anti-money laundering directive is still not being implemented by several member states and member states have refused, under the fifth directive, to set up a european financial investigation unit, which is absolutely indispensable to combat terrorist financing.
madam president, i have the honour to lead the mission to malta and i would like to concur that indeed there is still more work to be done. we are waiting for an answer from the conference of presidents but, of course, the work to be done should be done under the remit of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and the new committee that is to be established following on from the committee on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana committee). however, mr president, what i wish to ask for now is that you should raise with the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy the situation in ethiopia. brutal repression is going on. the government, including the prime minister, has resigned. a state of emergency has been re-imposed, and the statement made by the european union is a shame by comparison with the one put out by the americans condemning the reinstatement of the state of emergency. i ask you to bring this up with the commission and with high representative mogherini. the european union needs to take a position in the light of our values and the interests of democracy – which must be inclusive – in ethiopia, as well as the re-establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the reason for this proposal from the s&d group is very clear, namely that the united nations is now launching a big initiative to set a global compact on migration and refugees, and parliament should follow this initiative properly. we believe that during this session we should give the high representative the opportunity to come here to make a statement and that this should be followed by a proper debate in our session in april. this is our proposal. this initiative also has big implications for one of our concerns, which is to pave the way for a stronger strategic partnership with africa. we cannot have this strategic partnership if we don’t move on this global compact on migration and refugees.
em nome do grupo s&d. – mr president, our position is very simple. we agree that this debate should take place in april, because we need to have proper time for this. what is at stake now is some minutes just to have a first statement by the high representative because she asks us to do so. this is a good moment for her to come with the public position in the european parliament. but then, yes, the debate as such should take place in april.
madam president, the european commission's policy of 'integrity and transparency' can be summed up as follows: the european commission is fully at the service of the economic and financial interests which at all times determine its action and the content of its initiatives. and there is no statement more crystal clear and transparent than this. the unconditional defence of these interests often requires procedural obscurity, which no code of ethics or so-called 'transparency' policy can completely eliminate. this lack of integrity and transparency is not episodic, it is structural. as shocking as they may be, and they are, some of the episodes that reveal this structural reality. but it is this reality that must be fought more than its episodic manifestation. whether it is the case of the former president of the european commission and goldman sachs lobbyist who tries to influence commissioners, or the now well-known expedient that has, in good time, very well in good time, brought the all-powerful chief of staff of the president of the european commission to the top of the european union bureaucracy.
madam president, to talk about the implementation of the istanbul declaration and the fight against all forms of violence against women requires going far beyond declarations of intent. it requires the implementation of policy options which the european union has opposed. it requires the creation of supporting equipment as part of a public policy based on investment in public services and the social functions of the state. it requires looking at violence in all its forms, whether it is violence at work or the high rates of exploitation and precariousness, whether it is recognising the violence of poverty or the violence that translates into the unacceptable pressures on motherhood and the rights associated with it that are so often denied. it demands that prostitution be recognised as a serious form of violence and exploitation of women, which some now want to legitimize and legalise in portugal. ensuring the protection of women victims of violence requires public responses that increase the means and effective responses of the state and intervene in the prevention of its economic, social, psychological and cultural causes.
mr president, this discussion is part of the policies of assault on the universal postal service as a public service, which the european union has been promoting for decades. privatization and fragmentation of service are emphasized and any reference to public service is eliminated. deregulation and precarious employment are legitimized, conditions are created to facilitate the phenomena of concentration of services on the one hand, and the degradation and increase in the cost of the service to the user on the other. the consequences of your policies are, moreover, very evident in the process of degradation of the universal postal service in portugal, which is well expressed by the reality of the ctt and has become evident in recent months. the privatised company distributes millions of dollars in profits, distorts the main object of its activity, promotes the closure of over twenty stores and has announced the dismissal of 800 workers. it has made the service expensive, it has degraded the response, particularly in smaller or more isolated localities. we therefore take this opportunity to welcome the struggle of the ctt workers in defence of the company and the revocation of its privatisation, by resuming the public and universal postal service of quality that they have always provided.
in writing. for decades, the european union has been promoting the assault on the universal postal service as a public service, advocating - and enforcing - its liberalisation and privatisation. this discussion is part of this context and the terms adopted are clear as to the objectives underlying the report. privatization and fragmentation of service are emphasized and any reference to public service is eliminated. deregulation and job insecurity are legitimized. the conditions are created to facilitate the phenomena of concentration of services on the one hand and the degradation and increase in the cost of the service to the user on the other. a well-known story. the consequences of these policies are clearly visible in the process of degradation of the universal postal service in portugal, as the reality of the ctts has become evident in recent months. the privatised company distributes millions of dollars in profits, distorts the main object of its activity, promotes the closure of stores - more than 20 - and has announced the dismissal of 800 workers. it has made the service expensive, it has degraded the response, particularly in smaller or more isolated localities. we take this opportunity to salute the struggle of the ctt workers in defence of the company and the reversal of its privatisation, by resuming the public and universal postal service of quality that they have always provided.
madam president, i would just like to underline the rapporteur's commitment and, in particular, her approach to the ideas advocated by the epp on policies for the less developed regions and the future of the european semester. the rapporteur has therefore had a very balanced and far-reaching report adopted by the regi committee, which is at the same time a positive report, expressing very clearly the european parliament's position on the strategy for the regions with the lowest growth or income in our union, i.e. the less developed regions. from the content of the report, and in addition to the inclusion of the proposal for the creation of a positive incentive system for the post-2020 period, i would highlight two more of our proposals, which are the idea of the need for ambitious funding on cohesion policy, instead of the initial phrase 'adequate funding', and the idea that specific programmes, strategies and action plans should be created, that is, tailor-made for these regions through participatory and multi-level governance, in order to stimulate more effectively employment and growth and the sustainable development of the regions.
mr president, the peoples must have the right to decide their own destinies in a sovereign manner, including with regard to leaving the european union. this decision must be respected and the subsequent negotiating process must be free from pressure, threats and blackmail. we reiterate here that the withdrawal agreement with the united kingdom from the european union must not result in a weakening of the rules on the rights of migrant workers or other social rights, in particular the right of residence, the right to equal treatment, the right of access to public health care and education services, the right to the transferability of social security benefits, the right to family reunification and the mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications. any future economic and trade agreement between the united kingdom and the european union should take account of the specificities and interests of the different member states, and each member state should have the right to establish relations with the united kingdom in the widest range of areas, in accordance with its own interests.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this european council is taking place at a very special moment, where we have polls around the world coming up with a nationalistic tone in russia, china and the united states. in this context, the european union needs to assert its own vision and its own way of life and to have a long—term strategy, which should be based on human dignity, fairness, democracy and a clear commitment to sustainable development. yes, climate change is there, and we need to have a growth strategy driven by sustainable development goals. yes, the digital revolution can change our way of life, but we want to make the best of this by framing this revolution. that is why our commitment to the european pillar of social rights is so crucial. we need to tackle not only the old inequalities, but also the new ones. we are now waiting for the final content of the social fairness package to be adopted by the commission because we need to make sure that all citizens can have access to full coverage via social protection. but can we say that all citizens now have real access to all these benefits? this is not the case. we still have many inequalities across the union, and that is why we in the european parliament really expect a forward—looking community budget – the financial framework – to ensure that these promises will be delivered. the same applies to the eurozone. we need to stop the trend for divergence. that is why we expect the commission’s proposed budget line to build up fiscal capacity for the eurozone. but then we come to the big problem. how can we finance this? that is where the discussion on taxation, which will take place in this european council, is so crucial. let me give a very simple figure. when it comes to large corporations, something very weird is happening. in 2000, their profits were taxed at around 34%; now their profits are taxed at just 24%. so the situation we have is that large corporations are paying less and less tax, while our governments are under pressure to make cuts to welfare and healthcare systems. something is wrong, and we should not be surprised that citizens are now feeling insecure and that nationalistic and xenophobic positions are gaining ground. we need to reverse this trend. the only way to reverse this trend is for the european council to say, ‘if we want everybody to benefit from this strategy and for the social pillar to be implemented, we need to have the means’, and the means will be fair taxation. if the european council really wants to change the situation in europe, it needs to be bold on fair taxation. (applause)
madam president, mr vice-president, i would like to say that there is some frustration on the agenda of this council, because what we were hoping for, by march, is that president macron and chancellor merkel would of course be in a position to present at least a first road map for the reform of the euro area. if that is not possible, at least the principles and guidelines for preparing this work for the summit or the european council in june must be drawn up. however, i think there are two points that are very important. one is the response to trump and his limitation of international trade, which is totally unacceptable and which goes completely against what is the line of the european union. i should say that we would be in a safer and more prosperous world today if the tpp with the united states and the ttip with europe and the united states were already in force or at least well in advance - yes, it could combat unfair, social and environmental competition in some markets, such as the chinese market, and not just another type of retaliation, such as this. finally, i would like to say that i am sorry to note that the poor relative of this council is the energy union - only president juncker has spoken of it. it is crucial for portugal and spain, and it is crucial for the european union, that the interconnections between france and the iberian peninsula be made. the day they are made, our dependence on putin and our dependence on russia will be greatly reduced and europe will gain greatly from it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i am taking the floor on behalf of the s&d group, the group that jan nielsen belonged to. in just a few words, first of all i would like to thank all members of the european parliament for this homage and these minutes of silence. we, as the s&d group, would like to recall him as he was: a very generous man, a man who was very committed to the european project, someone who was also very much in touch with all the people at grassroots level, and the leading actor for a social economy across europe. jan nielsen, we will always remember you with much friendship. *****
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress four points. the position of the agriculture and budgetary affairs members is clear on an increase or at least on the maintenance of the financial envelope for the common agricultural policy, so that it remains one of the great pillars of the european project, without national co-financing in the first pillar and without any attempts at renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. our position is clear in favour of increasing the financial envelope for the posei programme, which ensures the sustainability of agricultural production in the outermost regions and which needs to be strengthened in order to meet the enormous challenges facing them. the need for an autonomous fisheries posei independent of the emff is clear. in an initiative led by me, we have succeeded in getting the final report approved by the committee on budgets and i hope that it will be approved in plenary as early as tomorrow. the commissioner is still waving cuts in agricultural funding. i would remind you that european farmers have already suffered since 2014 as a result of the commission's diplomatic decisions which resulted in the russian embargo on our agricultural products, and now the commission wants to penalise them again. commissioner, of course we cannot cut back on agriculture. listen to the european parliament and join us in convincing the council.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank you, mr president, and to greet you all, and to pay a special tribute to the commissioner for his competence and also for his respect for the timing, for his involvement in this matter and for his work with the european parliament. it is of the utmost importance that this post-2020 multiannual financial framework responds to the european union's aspirations, ambitions and challenges. we want a more competitive european union, a more cohesive european union and at the same time a more solidary one. the challenges are identified. cohesion policy must continue, as must the common agricultural policy, and we must strengthen research and innovation, erasmus+, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, youth must be a priority and therefore also the strengthening of the youth employment initiative. we also have the challenge of security and defence, and it is therefore very important that the budget of the european union be commensurate with these objectives and political priorities. 1.3 percent of gross national income is nothing special and it's a realistic proposal we make. moreover, this financing must be achieved without burdening european taxpayers, european citizens, and therefore the proposal we are presenting is essential to this end, where, for example, fines and the ecb's profits can be used. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. it seems to have been agreed, because i myself, together with other colleagues, have put forward a proposal for the next multiannual financial framework to include a line for tourism, and in our report... (due to the absence of interpretation, the speaker ends the speech in english.) we do not have interpretation. we have a line for tourism in our proposal, in our report. that's in our report.
madam president, the multiannual financial framework is the test of the nine countries as to the real political intentions of the european union. portugal has been deviating from the european union average. wages in portugal have fallen by more than 2% over the last 15 years, while wages in germany have risen by almost 3%, and this is due to the current financial framework, where cohesion funds have already been substantially cut compared to the previous framework. so what we want is a strengthened multiannual financial framework with more resources geared to cohesion, not a budget geared to security and defence. the choice we face today is whether we really want a europe of solidarity, a europe of peace, a europe of cohesion, or a europe of fortress, a europe of militarisation and increasingly bellicose.
madam president, we are indeed facing one of the most important debates of this term of office, because we are precisely defining priorities for the next multiannual financial framework. the european parliament has drawn up and presented its priorities. we have done our job and we will do our job tomorrow by approving commitments which are essentially about the aspirations of the european citizens whom we represent. i therefore ask the commission to welcome, to recognise and to present as early as may a strong budget which is consistent with this position, with the position of this parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to make two points, two major priorities, to which i ask the commission to pay particular attention. the next multiannual financial framework has and should unequivocally include, in the post-2020 period, a strengthening of cohesion policy, especially in line with the new strategy for the outermost regions. we are talking about maintaining specific derogations for support in transport, fisheries, posei fisheries, also in agriculture, in reinforcement for young people and also for small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, we have specified the creation of a specific line for tourism, which is a very important sector and which we support and want the commission to follow.
in writing. the report on the multiannual financial framework reflects a broad political commitment and contains common sense and ambitious positions that should be taken into account throughout the decision-making process. i would particularly stress the proposal to increase national contributions to the eu budget to 1.3% of gnp and the principle that new priorities should be financed with new resources, either national transfers or own resources obtained by the union. the proposals in the report safeguard europe's commitments to sustainable development, to the paris agreement and to the implementation of the social rights pillar, and advocate the same level of funding and greater effectiveness in the implementation of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. i would highlight some of the priorities in the resolution, namely the strengthening of youth policies, including the doubling of support for youth employment and the tripling of funds for the erasmus programme, the protection of children at risk of poverty and exclusion, incentives for refugee host countries and the transition fund to support the conversion of the energy sector and decarbonisation. it is a proposal for convergence towards a good agreement for the future of the eu.
mr president, i would like to greet the commissioner, congratulate the rapporteurs, the main rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and remind you - and it is always good to remind you - that the budget of the european union is an investment budget. only 6% is allocated to administrative and operating expenditure. this means that this is a budget with a great added value. in some member states, more than 70% of public investment comes from the eu budget. although it represents only 1% of gnp, it has enormous added value, and i insist on this. the 2019 budget should be a budget that should continue to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, solidarity, and should be a budget for youth. youth unemployment has values that are unacceptable. the european union budget, through the amounts it makes available, also in cohesion policy, through erasmus+, for the reinforcement of the youth employment initiative, should help to alleviate this scourge. in addition, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and innovation is essential. i would like to conclude by saying that if we, the council and the commission, agree on the priorities, it will not be difficult for us to agree on the amounts needed to implement those same priorities.
mr president, it is not enough to appease bad consciences with humanitarian support and promises of future reconstruction of syria. the european union must speak out against the military campaign that turkey is pursuing by massacring kurds in afrin, including by cutting off their electricity, water and food, through the control of a dam. and against russia and iran's shared responsibility for assad's murderous chemical attacks. the european union must also immediately combat the illegal supply of arms to terrorists in syria and beyond. a report by conflict armament research concludes that 90% of the weapons used by daesh and other terrorist forces are produced in eastern europe, originating in member states such as bulgaria, purchased and then resold without the consent of the producers and in violation of the arms trade treaty or the european union's common position on arms exports. these european-made weapons end up in the hands of terrorist groups. as daesh loses ground in iraq and syria and invests in acts of terrorism, the illegal arms trade and the responsibility of the united states, but also of the european union, saudi arabia and turkey, must be urgently stopped by the european union. europe is not... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this aggression against syria, which has been going on for seven years, is supported by the united states and its allies and is sustained by systematic war propaganda which objectively whitewashes the criminal action of terrorist groups responsible for heinous crimes. this propaganda promotes falsehoods, concealing the fact that terrorist groups are holding people hostage in ghouta, have rejected attempts at peace negotiations, have boycotted efforts to help the people, have prevented the use of humanitarian corridors. the european union must not allow the syrian people to be forced to live in a state of war, and the syrian people must not be forced to live in a state of war. we stand in solidarity with the victims of this war and call for efforts to end the aggression against syria and to achieve a negotiated solution respecting the sovereignty of the syrian people.
mr president, you cannot cut off the floor to your colleagues in this house who asked for the floor two hours ago for the 'catch the eye' procedure and authorize 'blue cards' during the 'catch the eye'. you can't do that, mr. president, you can't. that's not the rules of this house. i want to talk. i only ask the president to do his duty and give me the right to speak.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. no area or sector is spared. nevertheless, the cuban people have affirmed with determination and confidence the sovereign choice to fulfill the values of the revolution for the development of the country. it is through this collective effort and an unparalleled capacity for resilience and overcoming that cuba has achieved remarkable social achievements and recognized advances, especially in medicine - achievements that few countries in latin america or even europe have achieved, especially when thought of in the context of the atrocious aggression that the blockade represents. the european union, now cuba's second largest trading partner, must help to break the blockade and consolidate the dialogue and cooperation agreement, ensuring that it is ratified by all the member states, with a view to building relations between the two parties on the basis of mutual respect. the european parliament should take advantage of the positive developments in bilateral relations between the two parties and contribute to their success.
mr president, the conclusion of a dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba was in itself a positive act, which i am convinced has the support of the majority of europeans and can contribute to increasing the political, economic and commercial relationship with a country with which we have strong historical ties and which are of significant strategic importance. now, there's something that needs to be said. the fact is that these advances cannot mean that we forget those who in cuba continue to be victims of repression by a system that is strongly authoritarian and which has shown no signs of opening up politically. on the contrary, as has already been said, there are still cases of completely arbitrary arrests, freedom of expression is completely called into question, the right of association does not exist and there are many men and women of culture, of that culture, around which a dialogue with cuba is to be established, there are many men and women of culture whose voice has been silenced simply because they disagree with the regime. the expectations that the changes in recent years could lead to a greater opening up of the system have been completely undermined so far. the european union must therefore, in my view, strive to strengthen this relationship, but at the same time it must be absolutely demanding respect for human rights, because they are systematically undermined in cuba.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments. mr president, without wishing to repeat the arguments that recur every year, i would like to stress one aspect that i stressed in the opinion report i authored. between 2000 and 2017, nearly 200 people died in fires in portugal. in 2017, more than 440,000 hectares burned, destroying forest area, businesses, homes and vehicles in my country alone. countries such as italy have been regularly shaken by tragic earthquakes that claim countless lives. the north of europe is experiencing flooding, while the south is experiencing increasingly severe drought. since 1980, in addition to loss of life, member states of the european union have suffered more than eur 360 billion in damage due to extreme weather or climate events. civil protection is precisely one of the areas in which the european union can and must intervene, to the benefit of all, and help prevent and combat these phenomena more effectively. this is, of course, to strengthen european response capacities and to help member states facing disasters whose national capacities are insufficient. it is an aspect which makes perfect sense for the european institutions to consider.
mr president, president trump's decision to impose tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminium imports is a totally unacceptable declaration of trade war. this protectionist measure is concealed behind a false justification of national security, violates the rules of the world trade organization, seriously harms the european economy and endangers the global economy. the european commission therefore has the support of this parliament to implement a proportionate but firm response to defend the thousands of european jobs that are under threat if the decision is upheld. there is a problem in the world steel and aluminium market, but that problem is called china and it requires a concerted response by the international community against chinese dumping, not measures that miss the mark and unfairly and unacceptably harm the european union's economy.
in writing. the decision announced by us president donald trump to introduce high tariffs on steel and aluminium imports is a very worrying sign of a backsliding in trade openness and calls into question the future of trade relations between the world's two largest economies. the european commission must act with caution but firmness. a trade war is not in the interest of either side.
on behalf of the s&d group. other mr president, we warmly welcome the prime minister of portugal: a prime minister with a long european career, in fact a european leader, who, with his speech, has just proved two things to us: firstly, that it has been possible in portugal to show that there is a progressive alternative, centred on responding to the citizens, to what they want and to what they aspire to. but with your speech you also proved that you have an ambitious and progressive vision for the new phase of the european project. i therefore welcome, on behalf of the s&d group, the only group in the european parliament which incorporates delegations from the 28 member states. in fact, the european union is confronted with new challenges. in this polarized world we are surrounded by nationalistic tones, and we need to make sure that the european union is asserting itself as a beacon of international cooperation and of a progressive agenda. we need european-scale action to respond to climate change, to set new trade agreements, to make sure that we respond properly to the digital revolution and to the migration and refugee crises. for this, yes, we need a european scale. but in order to respond properly, we need to ensure the unity of european citizens, and this unity can only be based on implementing the european social pillar in such a way that children, young people, women and men can meet their new needs. what is happening with the social pillar is that, if you really want to implement it, we need also to count on a powerful social fairness package, which was presented yesterday by the commission. but we really want to implement it. but this is not enough, because if we want to sustain the welfare system, we also need to push for investment turned to the future, creating more and better jobs. and let me come with a powerful truth: this will only happen if we have the proper means, and the proper means will be (and you have referred to this) to have a budget turned to the future, to have a eurozone coming back to convergence, and financing this with new resources. the new resources should be based on tax fairness. we, the s&d group, want to go to these new sources of taxation, and they must be based on whatever is producing added value and is not benefiting the european union as a whole. this is the case with large-scale companies, the digital economy, financial transactions. so this is our expectation. today in parliament we will vote on the parliament's position on the european budget for the future, and we are pleased to count on clear support from the portuguese government. but let me tell you, since we know that europe needs to connect with european citizens: we intend to launch a large-scale debate across europe at all levels local, national and european to connect with citizens, to come with our proposals and to listen to them. we, the s&d group, will deploy our instruments to provide these large debates, because we have a democratic deficit, and a democratic deficit can only be reduced with large debates and delivering in the direction of what citizens really need.
i would like to begin by congratulating you on your presence in the european parliament. because i have a short time, i'm going to focus on the essentials. i ask you whether you think, as you said in portugal, that with the introduction of european taxes the portuguese will not be taxed and, finally, if you think they will be, who, perhaps the martians, who knows me. i ask you if you really think that in order to achieve a 1.2% increase in the financial allocation for the budget of the european union - and we are in favour of this increase, we are even in favour of a larger one, we are talking about 380 million euros - you need more taxes if the taxes you already collect and pay in portugal are not enough for you. i would remind the prime minister that when he was governing the centre-right, not long ago, before you, applying an austerity programme that the socialists approved after ruining the public accounts until 2011, the prime minister, in opposition, accused that government of going beyond the troika. today, mr prime minister, a sitting is not president mario tajani, is not anyone , wants to launch three taxes at once. i wanted to tell the prime minister that the prime minister is not going beyond the troika. mr. prime minister is the troika, without troika. govern better, manage your budget well and stop taxing the portuguese, who already pay too many taxes.
mr president, mr prime minister, with the decisive contribution of the communists, with the struggle of the workers and the people, it has been possible to begin a process of recovery and conquest of rights and incomes in portugal. the european union - we have not forgotten this - has expressed its opposition and threats to this path from the outset. let 's face it . the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. if the constraints and requirements of the european union, and in particular those of the euro, jeopardise the ability to respond to the country's problems, the solution is not to succumb to the strengthening of these constraints and turn our backs on the problems, the solution is to face these constraints and requirements in order to solve the problems. the solution, although in new clothes, is to exist in the old promises and illusions that life has thrown to the ground, it is to courageously break with the shackles that impede the sovereign development of the country and this is the best contribution that portugal can make to the construction of a europe of cooperation, peace and progress.
mr president, i welcome your pro-european speech in which we meet again. it is a pity that his coalition partners are totally anti-european. i also wanted to say that you left a novelty and an omission here. the new thing is that, as we are all in favour of own resources, we are very clear that there will be no increase in the tax burden on the same resources as before. it has left the door open here for a major increase in the tax burden on taxpaying citizens. second is the omission that mr. lamberts here should know. portugal has the lowest deficit ever, but it also has the lowest public investment ever. health, public services, including road safety, civil protection and infrastructure, have been completely neglected in recent years in order to meet european objectives, and so i leave this challenge and a very clear question to the prime minister, which is a constructive question, despite the fact that the balance sheet for portuguese public services over the last two-thirds of a century has been very, very negative. and the question i leave you with is this: mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president of the commission, if you are prepared to make a reprogramming of european funds in such a way that the prevention of fires and the support for the affected areas are given high priority, because the tragedy of the fires - which has no precedent in portuguese history and has no precedent in european history - was only possible, of course, because there has been a great deal of disinvestment over the years, but also in these means, and are you therefore prepared to make a reprogramming that takes due account of the need to take care of these populations and to take care of these regions? if you do, you'll have our applause.
mr president, mr prime minister, today in this parliament we are going to adopt a proposal which is excellent for portugal and is also five stars for the european union, which is the next multiannual financial framework, the next funds, which defend precisely the principles of solidarity, convergence and economic and social territorial cohesion. but these principles cannot be preached, they have to be practiced. solidarity must be practiced and it is important that it is not associated with the saying 'don't look at what i do, look at what i say'. so i ask you, in relation to the financial reprogramming that will be done for portugal 2020: will it take money from the poorest parts of the country, like the north, and give it to the richest? or will it instead give substance to the principles of solidarity and territorial cohesion which you have defended here and help the regions most in need, the poorest regions such as the north, the centre and the alentejo and the regions also in difficulty, such as the outermost regions? it is a question which must be answered solemnly and so that the principles are also in line with practice.
mr president, mr prime minister, i must congratulate you on coming to the european house of democracy to discuss the union and the challenges it is facing at the moment. it is with great pleasure that i hear the prime minister of my country today advocating, despite the political forces supporting his governmental solution, greater cohesion and integration in such essential areas as the reform of economic and monetary union and the new sources of community financing. i am pleased to see you here today, mr prime minister, advocating a return to the values on which the european union was founded. all this is contrary to his initial tendency, which was so critical of europe that, as i recall, he came to be known as the empire of austerity and which was so much the favour of the far-left parties supporting his government. the prime minister spoke of european solidarity, and i contrast him with the lack of solidarity that is evident in portugal, the result of the continued disinvestment in protecting our fellow citizens, which is reflected in the lack of solidarity with the old and the young and those living in the countryside, and which, unfortunately, is the norm and the tragedy of a desertified and aging country. how does your excellency intend to counter this? i'd like to finish by thanking the prime minister for his act of contrition here today.
mr president, indeed this should not be a debate between portuguese in portuguese. nevertheless, we are really regretting that three portuguese members of the epp group and one portuguese member of the alde group were given the floor, and not one portuguese member from the s&d group. this is completely unbalanced, and you need to correct this.
mr president, we have had a very good debate here on the future of europe. the way in which time was allocated, four portuguese members of the epp were given the floor, and unfortunately they did not use that time to discuss the future of europe, but to discuss portugal's past, which nobody wants, nobody remembers and nobody misses. i would like to ask my prime minister, as i welcome him here, how he sees the application of the key policies of convergence in the fight against populism and protectionism and to give citizens better living conditions, because that is really the secret of governance in portugal and that is really the secret we can have to have a europe with a better future.
prime minister of portugal mr president, i would like to begin by thanking you for the many and varied questions and words of encouragement regarding the continuation of a policy which has not only allowed us to turn the page on austerity, but has also allowed us to achieve good results: good results in consolidating public finances, a deficit which last year was close to 1.1% with the start of the reduction of public debt, at the same time as we had the highest growth since the beginning of the century, we have an unemployment rate which has been falling steadily and is currently below 8%. your words encourage us and give us the energy to continue the success and the results of these policies. i would like to stress one important point here. the change in policy was not only of economic importance. it has also shown that we are not condemned to a single thought within europe and that we are free to develop political alternatives. this is fundamental to strengthening democracy and citizens' confidence. if today euroscepticism in portugal has fallen again, it is largely because the portuguese have understood that it is possible to be in europe in different ways. mr joão ferreira raised a question which has to do with the difficulties that the euro poses for countries like portugal. we know, at least since monetary union in the united states, that monetary unions do not reduce asymmetries, but rather accentuate them. all the preparatory studies for the euro, from the mclaughlin report to the delors report of 1989, made it clear that in order for the euro not to have an asymmetrical effect, it was necessary to provide the euro area with a budgetary capacity. two years ago, some people thought we couldn't get out of austerity without getting out of the euro, and others thought we couldn't get into the euro by getting out of austerity. today we know that it is possible to be in the euro without austerity. but what we also know is that all those who said that budgetary capacity was needed were right, and they are still right, and that is what i hope. the only way to ensure that there is a real budgetary capacity is to have a budgetary capacity. what is not possible is to come to each of our countries and say that we want more money from europe and then at the same time say that we want to give less money to europe. europe does not produce money for itself. europe's money comes from europeans and it comes in one of two ways: either because the member states increase transfers at the expense of their nationals' taxes, or we increase the european union's own resources by taxing the whole european economy. or we can find the right balance between these two sources of funding. i want the next budget to be a more robust budget and for that you must have more resources. i am therefore not afraid to say that portugal is ready to give more money to the european union. but we also support the idea that, in addition to the reinforcement that is being made at the expense of portuguese taxes, there should be new resources at european level, which, incidentally, will only be effective if they exist at european level. or will any country be able to effectively tax american digital multinationals if we cannot do it on a european scale? will we be able to tax environmentally harmful products better at european level or at national level? will we or will we not have the courage to pass the financial transaction tax? we must be courageous and we must tax, and that is the truthful speech we must make before our citizens. migration: schengen is a major 'acquis' of our union. it was schengen that gave freedom of movement within the european union. twelve years ago, as minister of the interior, i prepared, under the portuguese presidency, the enlargement of schengen to include the then new member states, and i am very proud of the awards i received, from poland to the czech republic, for having extended schengen to the new member states, restoring the freedom of movement that these peoples had not had for decades, because they were locked behind the iron curtain. it is this heritage of freedom of movement that we must be able to defend and that we must be able to continue to affirm. i am asked whether europe should be built at two speeds or, as i prefer to say, in variable geometry. no, i'm not going. as far as possible, we must continue to build the europe of 28 or 27, but we must respect the freedom of those who do not want to do what others want to do. there is no way for us to stay united without respecting freedom. but the freedom of those who do not want to go further cannot limit the freedom of those who want to go faster. so as long as this variable geometry is neither exclusive nor definitive and always keeps the door open for anyone who wants to join - as with the euro, as with schengen - there is no reason for us to remain paralysed, just because some do not want to keep up, and we must respect that freedom too. energy is a key issue. in portugal, we have already achieved 60% of production with renewable energy and 30% of consumption with renewable energy. we are well aware that we have natural conditions that others do not have. but in order to share these natural conditions, it is essential that we do not delay the process of energy interconnections any further. we must connect the iberian peninsula to the centre of europe, we must connect france, from france to germany, and the whole of europe, so that the whole of europe can benefit from the excess capacity for the production of renewable energy that naturally exists on the iberian peninsula and that can hardly exist, for purely natural reasons, in other regions of europe. i would like to end with two specific questions. first, with regard to fires. i would like to thank mrs miranda for speaking in a magnificent portuguese of galician inspiration, and since i cannot reply in galician, i will reply in portuguese, and i will say the following: the commission has already put forward steps to improve the european civil protection mechanism. the existence of a european reserve to supplement the national responsibility of each member state to be able to respond in the event of a tragedy is absolutely essential. but more important, or at least as important, is that we can act on the causes of the fires, and what we need is that the next common agricultural policy also takes into account the need to adapt the forest in southern europe to the new climatic conditions and to make it possible to make a significant change in our forestry composition. we need to have fewer eucalyptus trees, we need to have fewer pine trees and we need to have more cork oaks, we need to have more oak trees, we need to have more olive trees, we need to have trees that are fire-resistant and that are able to contribute to sustainable rural development. the agricultural policy should also hopefully contribute to this change. (applause) the last question i want to answer is the question of catalonia. the question of catalonia is an internal matter of the kingdom of spain, which must be handled safely by dialogue, but with respect for the value of the rule of law, the spanish constitution and the sovereignty and unity of spain. what we have to do, those of us who are defenders of the rule of law, is to defend the rule of law at all times, whether it is the autonomy of the judiciary that is at stake, whether it is the dignity of the human person that is at stake, whether it is the sovereignty of the spanish constitution that is at stake, which we must all respect as a democratic state governed by the rule of law and which is an integral part of our union. (applause from the centre and the right)
portugal is in pesco to build a europe of defence and security against the threats of terrorism and hybrid war. to finance it - and other policies - more own resources are needed from the eu budget, but also from the member states' coffers. but these resources have been unfairly squandered - not just through 'tax failures' like the one portugal suffered at the hands of the more troika-friendly government than the troika - but by 'tax dumping' in which member states compete against each other in a race to the bottom that scandalously benefits big multinationals, fortunes, criminal organizations (including terrorists) to the detriment of citizens and smes overtaxed and receiving in return less social welfare and worse state in general. the netherlands, for example, functions as the main 'tax haven' for companies based in portugal. the prime minister has proposed to introduce european taxes on financial transactions, polluting companies and digital platforms. do you not think that the revenue from these taxes can and should also be shared with national budgets? do you not think it is crucial that the eu moves forward with tax harmonisation and sets out to fight tax havens coherently and effectively, both within the eu and outside, at global level?
in writing. we have begun in portugal, with the struggle of the workers and the people, a path of recovery and conquest of rights and incomes. this path has been met with opposition and threats from the european union, which would prefer to keep portugal tied to the decline and impoverishment of the psd-cds government and the troika. when the constraints and impositions of the european union and in particular those of the euro prevent the country's problems from being addressed, the solution is not to bow to the constraints (possibly even reinforced) and turn its back on the problems, but to face these constraints and impositions in order to solve the problems. the solution is not to insist, with new clothes, on the old promises and illusions that life has brought down to earth, but rather to courageously break the shackles that impede the sovereign development of the country. this is the best contribution portugal can make to a europe of cooperation, progress and peace.
mr president, in the previous debate with the portuguese prime minister, in the opening speeches of the chairmen of various groups, these speeches went far beyond the time allotted. the first intervention of our group has met the time set. if we have to take time away from 'catch the eye' and i think this is the procedure that has been agreed but not followed, we have to take time away from 'catch the eye' in the groups which exceeded the time in their first intervention. our group, having respected the time allotted to it in the first part-session, was deprived of time in the debate on 'catch the eye', and this is not in accordance with the rules which have been laid down and we did not want to fail to make our firm protest here.
mr president, i support this proposal. cohesion policies and the common agricultural policy are fundamental to an inclusive and equal opportunity europe. the reduction of its financial allocations could intensify the feeling of distrust in the union, opening the way to the proliferation of anti-european populism. it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the budget of the european union. the proposal to increase the contributions of the countries, by a percentage which seems to me absolutely feasible, and of the own resources must be the workhorse of those who want to continue consolidating the european union. in the case of the outermost regions, which i represent, it is important to ensure that vital economic sectors such as fisheries and agriculture are supported. but tourism, research and innovation are also crucial if regions such as the azores are to continue to converge economically and socially with the european union. this includes the maintenance and possible extension of posei and the creation of a fisheries posei, which is essential to ensure the common fisheries policy in the region.
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner king, cybercrime has gone from being a risk to a reality with an increasing impact on our lives and the functioning of our communities. from scheduling a doctor's appointment to monitoring the electricity distribution network, we live in an interconnected city which requires specific action, both at european and national level, both in the public and private sectors, both in prevention and in combating it. we advocate, and in some cases have already approved, the strengthening of the agency for network and information security (enisa), the strengthening of europol's powers and resources, increased funding and close cooperation with private actors such as facebook and google. in this way, we have been equipping the union and the member states for this new reality. but we also need to adapt our means of proof, i.e. to ensure that the portuguese police have access to evidence that is on a server in ireland, even though the crime under investigation was against a portuguese citizen. this example makes it clear that the absence of borders in the digital world urgently requires the creation of a european approach to digital proof. that is why i am calling today on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to regulate digital evidence, allowing for more effective combat and certainly greater safeguards in the defence of european rights.
madam president, i led the mission to malta following the assassination of daphne caruana galizia. i must say that i see very worrying parallels, and it’s not just because they were investigative journalists working to expose the corrupt and the captured, but it’s also because the investigations point out two mafiosi having done the professional job of assassinating both daphne and ján kuciak and his partner. this is extremely worrying, and it is a reason why we absolutely must have europol and olaf not only associated with the investigation: they must co-lead the investigation. that’s exactly what we see, for instance, in malta. the former commissioner who was dismissed with a scathing report never faced charges and was actually made an adviser to the prime minister. what does the commission have to say about that? the question of capture by the corrupt of our political establishments is the crucial question that must be addressed.
mr president, i congratulate the committee on following the investigation being carried out by the united states to determine whether there is any unfair competition in the export of spanish olives to the north american market. i believe that it is important to ensure that this process is transparent so that it does not distort the market and the wto rules. we cannot accept the prevalent application of new punitive tariffs to spanish olive oil exports, in addition to the national taxes already in force for the sector, since it affects not only spanish producers but also portuguese ones, since, in order to meet the needs of the internal market and to meet export commitments, olive oil and olive oil produced in portugal end up going to spain in bulk. although i am a supporter of the single market and of course welcome foreign investment in my country, i cannot help but regret that in the alentejo region, the super-intensive planting of olive trees on thousands of hectares is destroying real archaeological treasures and irreversibly altering the morphology of the landscape and the orography. i would therefore like to point out that intensive olive growing is also responsible for a real environmental crime because of the pressure on water use, soil depletion and contamination of the groundwater.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, we are here today to discuss a new debate. this is certainly what has attracted so much attention and so many members. this parliament is called upon to discuss and decide on a proposal to terminate a fisheries agreement in force with a third country. bilateral fisheries relations between the european union and the comoros date back to 1988, i.e. for three decades the european union has had some kind of fisheries agreement with the comoros, which gives it access to the comorian fishery resources. the comoros is among the least developed countries. the fisheries sector, the second most important in the country, after agriculture, accounts for a significant share of both gdp and employment. all the domestic operations are small-scale and artisanal, and involved, not long ago, some eight thousand fishermen. the stocks that can be exploited in the comorian eez are mainly large pelagic fish, tuna and swordfish. the annual catches by local fishermen represent less than half of the estimated stocks. the remaining fish quantities are exploited by foreign industrial fleets, which land them elsewhere, and fish processing is also carried out outside the comoros, including catches, in some cases, of the local fleet. this is a framework we must bear in mind when we consider the european commission's proposal to terminate the fisheries agreement between the european union and the comoros. the comoros has also requested the commission to provide information on the fishing activities of the comoros in the waters of the comoros, including the fishing activities of the comoros in the waters of the comoros, and the fishing activities of the comoros in the waters of the comoros. we believe, however, that we must draw the attention of the european commission to certain issues by means of the resolution we are discussing here today. we believe that the fight against iuu fishing should not be limited to the identification of non-cooperating third countries. an effective fight against all forms of iuu fishing requires finding ways to help countries, in particular small island developing states, such as the comoros, to improve their marine management policies. in this respect, it is regrettable that, over the almost 30 years that the european union has had fisheries agreements with the comoros, no more tangible results have been achieved in the development of the comorian fisheries sector, in particular in terms of control and surveillance capacity, scientific development and technical training of fishermen and observers, among other areas. it is also with great concern that we note that assessments by un bodies criticise what they call the european union's position of power in setting fisheries agreements and fixing fish prices, while at the same time pointing out that the partnership agreements have failed to support the development of local industry, which is also evident. this situation justifies the presentation of proposals in the context of this resolution which could contribute to the continuation of support for the development of the fishing sector in the comoros, to the improvement of fishing activities, to the improvement of the quality of life of fishermen and, thus, to the fight against iuu fishing. these and other concerns are expressed in the resolution we are debating today and voting on tomorrow.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. it's the appropriate decision in the context of the files i've been given to review. but having said that, i would remind you that this small island state in the indian ocean is considered one of the least developed countries in the world and that its economy is very much dependent on financial and technical assistance from other countries. the fight against iuu fishing is a very appropriate priority for the european union. last year's fao report reveals that illegal fishing is on the rise in east africa, causing losses of €325 million in landings and around €800 million in processed products. the meeting of acp fisheries ministers in the bahamas last september recognised the enormous economic and environmental losses due to illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. but denouncing agreements, although inevitable, is not the solution to ending these practices. following the implementation of the card system, the termination of the agreements and the inclusion of the countries in the list of iuu countries, the european commission should intensify cooperation efforts on comprehensive reforms. in addition, the comoros is home to a large population of coelacanths, a relic of biodiversity and of world value, a living fossil threatened by illegal fishing in that region of the indian ocean. i would stress the need for the commission to promote intensively aid for the development of fisheries management and governance and marine biodiversity in the comoros. a history of almost 30 years of agreements between the european union and the comoros, with no visible improvement in activity, shows that something has failed and that we have also failed. the fact that the agreement is now being withdrawn should therefore be an incentive to improve, as far as possible, the monitoring of cooperation for the development of this archipelago, which was said to have been discovered by the portuguese in 1505 and then colonized and administered by france for several centuries.
member of the commission. – mr president, the denunciation of this fisheries partnership agreement is, sadly, a first for the eu under the implementation of the regulation combating illegal, unreported and undocumented fishing (iuu) and measures forcing therein. this is a legal obligation, and it shows that the commission is looking globally at its external policy. the eu cannot continue with fisheries agreements when third-country partners do not take effective action to combat iuu fishing. the decision is fully consistent with the eu’s ocean governance agenda under which the union cooperates with third countries with the purpose of improving compliance with international measures, including on combating iuu fishing.
i would like to thank everyone for their contributions and to stress a final message to the european commission, which i think is clear from the various speeches. this denunciation should not mean the end of a cooperation relationship with the comoros in the field of fisheries, which is why we urge the european commission to work towards restoring this relationship as soon as possible, considering fishing communities and small-scale artisanal fisheries as a central factor in the development of this cooperation, promoting investments and technical assistance in areas as diverse as the fisheries management and governance system, monitoring, coast protection, surveillance and surveillance capacities, the activation of support structures for the refrigeration, distribution and processing of fish, the construction of landing and safety infrastructure, the renewal of the small-scale fleet, strengthening safety conditions and the ability to stay at sea, among many other aspects. in our view, the sustainable fisheries agreements concluded by the european union with other countries should be mutually beneficial. the strengthening of the sovereignty of these countries over their resources, the development of economic activities associated with fishing, the protection of marine resources and the promotion of the development of fishing communities must be the central objectives of this cooperation relationship, and not, as has also been pointed out here, the depletion of resources. if we go in this direction, it will also be an effective way of combating iuu fishing.
author. – madam president, sakharov laureate salih mahmoud osman came to the european parliament last november to warn against the eu cooperating with tyrants under the khartoum process, namely with the brutal regime of omar al-bashir, who led wars against his own people in darfur, in south sudan. he was using eu funds and complacency and further repressing and oppressing the sudanese, not deterring but instead making ever more migrants and refugees forced to flee misery and persecution. salih was so right that he himself was again put in jail last month, as well as dozens of human rights defenders and civil society opposition activists. well, all protests are violently silenced in sudan. as a european, i am in pain and in shame for salih and all the other brave sudanese. commission, council and member states: you will betray european values, interests and the trust of eu citizens and our african friends if you do not act immediately and decisively to get sakharov laureate salih mahmoud osman and all these brave sudanese activists out of jail, and if you do not hear their warnings and their pleas to us, and if you do not get omar al-bashir, indicted as a criminal by the international criminal court (icc), arrested and sent to trial.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, holding climate summits to get governments to express concern about climate change and to feel good about themselves does not change anything. consistent action is needed to meet the paris summit objectives, and it is not enough to count emissions. it is also necessary to remove carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere. this can only be achieved by protecting and restoring our forests, by seriously, without trickery and without hypocrisy, accounting for the emissions that occur there. we can invent all sorts of schemes to avoid accounting for emissions or we can even pretend that everything is solved by a collection mechanism. but that's called cosmetic politics, and we can't always be on the minimum. it is in this context that i once again call for the importance of reforestation to combat emissions, to reduce them. the proposal for a european carbon tax is also proof of the farce that reducing emissions is a business for this house. you're not cutting back, you're paying to keep producing the same.
mr president, commissioner, greenhouse gas emissions also depend on land use, land use change, forests and their management. in the process of defining a method for accounting for emissions associated with this sector, the interests of the large forest producers in the north prevailed over the specificities of the ecosystems in the south. this creative accounting demonstrates the fragility of the european union's commitment to combating climate change, as does the insistence on a market approach, which has already been shown to be ineffective and perverse. the concern will not be so much with nature and the planet. the concern here is fundamentally about business, including what can be done with nature and the atmosphere of the planet. this alone can explain the persistence of the market approach, which is the basis for all expedients, whether in the definition of reference periods or in the instruments of flexibility, provided that it is to defend the interests of the more powerful.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this week marks a hugely important moment for the circular economy in europe. the new eu waste legislation that we are discussing here this evening will help to prevent waste and will turn much more waste into valuable resources. i trust that this house will vote clearly in favour of the adoption of the package on wednesday. in doing so, you would give a great push to further improving waste management in europe, in line with our circular economy goals. this will unlock new sources of growth and innovation, create jobs and reduce our dependence on imports of critical raw materials and our reliance on waste treatment abroad, and it will of course help to protect our environment and thus the health of our citizens. i do know that this house had its doubts when this commission in december 2014 withdrew previous proposals on waste. we did it to pursue more ambitious, better designed goals that would get the approval of member states and would be actually enforced on the ground. i would like to express my profound gratitude to the rapporteur, ms simona bonafè, all the shadow rapporteurs as well as all the other members of the european parliament and staff members involved for their relentless and constructive work on the commission’s new proposals over the past two years. and i do agree with the much broader framework mr gambús has just given us of why we are doing this. without your vision and support, we would not have achieved the very good result we have on the table today or indeed overcome the stalemate that the pre-2014 proposals had engendered. thanks to your support, the ambitious recycling and landfill reduction targets proposed by the commission were generally kept, even though member states may take some more years to attain them. parliament’s support was also crucial to agree on strong new rules on waste prevention, including food waste and marine litter, and you also helped to secure strong new rules on extended producer responsibility, the management of hazardous wastes and bio-waste, and the separate collection of waste. finally, you also pushed very hard for an ambitious waste policy agenda during the coming years. this agenda encompasses and reviews the many different pieces of existing eu legislation, ranging from reusability and recyclability of packaging waste, end-of-life vehicles, waste oils, food waste and waste disposal operations, as well as recycling targets for waste other than municipal and packaging waste. not all of parliament’s amendments found their way into the final text. i am aware, for instance, that you would have wanted to see an even stricter harmonisation of the calculation rules for recycling. unfortunately, the council could not agree on a single measurement point, yet the new legislation still marks a major step forward by ensuring that only waste that enters recycling will be reported under the targets. over the next years, the commission will closely monitor the implementation of these new calculation rules to ensure that only input to recycling is reported. if appropriate, the commission will consider if further harmonisation and calculating recycling targets is feasible. i should finally mention that among the commission declarations that accompany the package are four declarations responding to points that were particularly important to this house: first, on the policy framework for the circular economy; second, on the collaborative economy; third on microplastics; and fourth, on the reporting of waste data in 2020. our shared task now is to ensure that the promises enshrined in this waste package are actually delivered on the ground. this requires member states to urgently step up action, building on the progress that many of them are already making to meet existing obligations. local and regional administrations and businesses will also have a key role to play. your support in keeping up the pressure for full and effective implementation will be essential. the commission will continue to support member states in making the best use of available instruments in terms of new legislation, economic instruments and financial support. we will also provide guidance as requested on many new key provisions, for instance on how to modulate producer fees under extended producer responsibility schemes to promote more circular products. before concluding, i would like to very briefly touch on the other file in this joint debate – the standard reporting directive. repealing the existing directive is an important first step towards further administrative simplification and higher levels of legal certainty. the commission has actively pursued the follow-up to the fitness check on streamlining environmental reporting which aims at increasing transparency, optimising the use of it tools and reducing the administrative burden for all stakeholders. before the end of may, we will present a legislative proposal to amend the reporting requirements in a number of environmental directives and regulations modelled on the proposals for the revision of the drinking water directive which you are currently discussing. i believe that there is every opportunity to reach an agreement at first reading on this proposal too, so that the benefits can be delivered already in 2019, before the end of this legislature, and we have something to show for ourselves when we head for elections. we can all be truly proud – and you, especially, can be very proud – of this legislative package. once properly implemented, the new eu waste legislation will make the european union the world leader in waste management. the european parliament has played an essential role in laying a foundation for this transformation and i sincerely hope you will all lend your support to make it happen later this week.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, we agree with more ambitious targets for the recycling of packaging waste, but we must not lose sight of some issues. in accordance with the principle of the waste hierarchy, prevention, reduction of packaging waste production and reuse of packaging, in that order, should take precedence over recycling. extended producer responsibility schemes are appropriate in pursuing these objectives. the disparity in starting points between member states with regard to upwardly revised recycling and preparation for use targets means that different efforts are needed to achieve the targets set. we do not think that this has been taken into account. the existence of new objectives, revised upwards, justifies the existence of new means to achieve them. it would therefore be justified for the european union to strengthen the means at the disposal of the member states to support them in the necessary investments, in particular those that are lagging behind in the field of waste management infrastructure. but it happens that it is not happening.
the european union (eu) is the most import-dependent area of the world. it also leads the global commitment to the sustainability of the planet and the fight against climate change. the circular economy is a necessary complement to the energy transition. only through the implementation of this package will the eu be able to achieve levels of sustainability and competitiveness that will enable it to stand at the technological and social frontier of a changing world. the current model of resource management is economically, socially and environmentally unsustainable. you have to take the opportunity to change. creating wealth, creating jobs, creating a better quality of life for people. as one of the shadow rapporteurs, i advocated and proposed amendments to phase out landfilling to total elimination, to ban landfilling of waste that is subject to separate collection, to create a framework programme with a timetable of objectives, to monitor waste transfers within the eu and to third countries and to improve the quantification methodologies associated with landfilling. it's time for action. the circular economy has to be much more than a good narrative. it must be a concrete reality with positive impacts on the daily lives of europeans.
madam president, the 7th environment action programme, the limited impact on the environment and the fragility of the resources allocated to it, particularly financial resources, show the low priority the european union has been giving to this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies, from agricultural to commercial policy, among others. many of the recommendations made by this parliament before the establishment of this programme have not been implemented, for example in terms of adequate funding for the protection of biodiversity and forests, the strengthening of the life programme or the allocation of sufficient resources for the conservation of the values protected by the natura 2000 network. unfortunately, there is no sign at present that the next multiannual financial framework will make up for these shortcomings. on the contrary, the european union has other priorities.
madam president, commissioner, the media are indeed a fundamental element of democracy, respect for human dignity and equality. no one here claimed that the media exacerbates inequality. what we are saying is that the media can be a key partner in fighting discrimination and this would be the first point for reflection. this report, despite all the work that has been done and all the positive measures that are included in it, i believe we can do even more, will be made stronger and more balanced by the additional amendments that we propose, namely the need for more regulation both at european and member state level, with the possibility of penalties and the creation of a provider for gender issues in the media, the publicity of the pay gap and the introduction of binding measures to promote equal pay for equal work, the refusal of any content that promotes discrimination or gender-based violence, including the strong sexism that is sometimes conveyed through advertising. i therefore ask all members to support our amendments when we vote tomorrow.
madam president, the report omits aspects of media organisation which are not unconnected with the wide inequalities perpetuated in the sector and the violence against women which it both perpetrates and promotes. it ignores the fact that the concentration of the media, the predominance of the private sector over the public sector, the increasing commodification of communication and information inevitably impact on the content and on the professionals in the sector, conditioning the ideological matrix of those who run them. an industry which promotes discrimination against women in the media and which promotes their objectification could not promote better practices among its workers. combating inequalities between men and women requires countering practices in the sector that impose intense and irregular workloads, multi-functional work, job insecurity, low wages and indiscriminate dismissals. this fight, like the other sectors, requires the reversal of right-wing policies that feed on exploitation and inequalities to maximize profits, policies that the european union has also promoted.
the problem with the european union's development cooperation policy is not just that the resources allocated to it are being progressively reduced, nor is it that the european development fund is still outside the eu budget. apart from the inconsistency of the european union's sectoral policies with the declared development objectives, as can be seen, for example, in the liberalization and deregulation of international trade and the blackmail surrounding the implementation of the so-called economic partnership agreements, what is also important is the attempt to increasingly influence the way development funds are used. the european union's policies, for example in the field of migration and the externalisation of borders, must be accepted, in addition to the constant attempts to impose forms of organisation of the economy, society or the political system. this attitude disrespects the legitimate sovereignty of the developing countries and is more in favour of defending the neocolonial ambitions of the european union, its powers and its economic groups than in favour of developing these countries themselves.
madam president, the bombing of syria by the united states, the united kingdom and france, with the support of nato, the european union and israel, is an unacceptable act of aggression, in flagrant violation of the united nations charter and international law. under the pretext of an alleged, but unproven, use of chemical weapons in douma, for which syria denies responsibility, the bombing was carried out hours before the scheduled arrival in the country of international experts who were to investigate these allegations. the perpetrators of the bombing have a known history of lying and inventing pretexts to carry out aggressions, such as those that took place in iraq and libya. for the past eight years, they've been training, arming and funding terrorist groups for a proxy war. in view of the defeats inflicted on these groups, they have taken a new and serious step in the operation of aggression and destruction in syria. we hereby express our full solidarity with syria and its people in their resistance and struggle in defence of their sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, in defence of their right to decide their own destiny free from any interference.
madam president, ryanair crew in portugal went on strike at the beginning of april to demand compliance with portuguese labour legislation and to protest against the deterioration of working conditions, denouncing abusive disciplinary proceedings, psychological conditioning, threats of basic transfer and disregard for parental laws. the courageous action of the struggle, which we here in solidarity welcome, has been met with a shameful response from the multinational company with threats to reduce the operation and, more seriously, in flagrant violation of national legislation, measures to replace the crews on strike, relocating base crews in other countries with threats of disciplinary proceedings, career freezes and dismissals for those who refuse this demand. threats, blackmail and persecution continued until the end of the strike, in a declaration of impunity for that multinational which operates on the basis of the single market and the single european sky, with the approval and complicity of the european commission, which did not take any action in the face of such serious facts. the commission has also taken the view that the introduction of the single market in aviation is a necessary step towards the creation of a single market in the aviation sector.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an undeniable fact that, in some parts of europe, we have seen a degradation of the core values of our union: the rule of law, democracy and even fundamental rights. and this degradation is supported by segments of the population, influenced by governments which only seek the internal market and not the europe of values. it is clear that we are constantly in a process of continuous learning and improvement of the functioning of the european project and of democratic systems. but at the same time, as we have repeatedly said and appealed to in this house, we cannot compromise in defending and promoting our founding values either. supporting those in civil society who promote these values and fight populist drift is therefore vital. the next financial framework of the union should therefore provide for a budget line dedicated to the financing of these ngos. supporting the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights is promoting the european union. let us not be afraid to stand up for what we believe in and stand for. thank you very much, michał boni.
mr president, mr macron, you have presented yourself here as the president of france, but in reality you seem to think that you are a little napoleon. you have come to declare your love for democracy, you have even said that democracy is not an empty word and i ask you: what democracy? the democracy that decided to execute less than a week ago when, unilaterally, with trump and may, it advanced to attack on syria without strictly consulting anyone? does your concept of democracy have no citizens? don't you have parliaments? you didn't even see the french assembly, you ridiculed the european institutions, is that your idea of democracy? mr president, your concept of democracy is not hollow, it is nonexistent. your conception of democracy is napoleonic and we want full democracy. if you want peace in the middle east, you have a good remedy: stop selling weapons, you are in a great position to do so.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i welcome your speech and your european policy, but we have differences. i must say that transnational lists increase the distance between voters and elected officials. moreover, there is no federalist experience with transnational lists. this does not exist in the united states, switzerland or the federal republic of germany. to have a good integration, we do not need transnational lists. i would also like to ask you to support a proposal in the report on national parliaments which will be discussed tomorrow. the aim is to create a european week that would take place simultaneously in the 27 parliaments and in the european parliament, with exchanges of views between commissioners, members of all nationalities and national members. this would be the 'european week'. i would ask you to support this proposal which we will be voting on next thursday.
mr president, we agree that the european union needs to diversify its crops and combat its structural protein deficit. now we also need to clarify that this dependence, these massive imports of soybeans, which are growing exponentially, have a source and that source is our intensive production model which is highly dependent on soybeans and compound feed, and therefore a sustainable strategy that seeks to combat this issue must of course take into account the need to revise this model. in short, i would say that to try to create a sustainable strategy to combat our protein dependence while pursuing a free trade policy with third countries is hypocritical, because it puts our producers in a situation of inequality which naturally pushes them towards this unsustainable consumption of imported protein.
mr president, we are following the principles underlying social and territorial cohesion. the facts now show that the european union has diverged, the gap between rich and poor is widening, social and economic inequality is growing between regions and between countries. this is because the structural funds tend to decrease. the current community framework has fewer structural funds than the previous one, and in the next framework, everything seems to indicate that the money devoted to cohesion will also be reduced. and this is all the more serious in that the next framework also shows the need to link the application of these funds to structural reforms, to the european semester, and this of course represents the death of the only instrument which allowed the member states to cope with austerity policies.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of a global pact on refugees is revealed in three simple facts: first, we have the biggest refugee crisis since world war ii; second, 50 percent of the world's displaced people are on the african continent; third, there are about eight million refugees in just five countries. let 's be clear: we have an unprecedented crisis whose effects are felt above all in the developing countries and for which the international community was not and is not prepared! we must be at the forefront of defending a more coherent and fair system, based on more solidarity and shared responsibility, which protects the most vulnerable, such as children. this has been very well emphasized by my colleague corazza bildt, among others. mr president, this global pact, proposed within the framework of the united nations, can correct the mistakes of the past, can improve the present of millions and anticipate a future in which those who flee hunger and persecution are not left to their own devices but are supported by the world. and the european union cannot shirk its leading role.
mr president, the draft un pact to manage migration and refugee movements makes sense. the question is whether the european union will really make a difference, whether it will open up legal and safe, controlled pathways through the revision of the dublin system, so that immigrants and refugees no longer have to put their lives in danger at the hands of smuggling mafias to reach a safe country. because european governments have actually helped to feed these mafias, not opening up legal and safe channels. it is essential that the european union does not continue to outsource responsibilities as it has done with turkey and libya and that it is indeed judicious in the use of taxpayers' money, particularly in development policies that serve regimes, governments that actually want to give their peoples conditions for development, democracy and progress, rather than repressing them and thus making them refugees and migrants. salih mahmoud osman, the 2007 sakharov prize winner, before he was arrested again in his country, sudan, came here to warn us precisely against these so-called development policies, which rely on criminals like omar al-bashir, as if he were our friend and cooperator with the serious policy in this field.
mr president, mrs mogherini, since 2014 15 907 migrants have died in the mediterranean as of yesterday. those who manage to overcome the walls of fortress europe and reach the territory of the eu will face increasing restrictions on the right of asylum and integration, persecution, violence, discrimination, the shameful and inhumane conditions of detention centres, today's real concentration camps, forced deportation, brutal labour exploitation and, worse, sexual exploitation. those who cannot do so are exploited in the camps of turkey or are fed slave labour in the camps of libya, all financed by the european union. these are the consequences of the criminal, xenophobic and racist immigration policies that the eu imposes and promotes, in violation of international law, human rights, human dignity. the absence of eu contributions to the construction of the compacts will be the biggest contribution to the fact that they guarantee the rights and protection of migrants.
mr president, i think we want and we have to say in all our language that the attack by the united states, the united kingdom and france does not contribute to peace in syria or to a political solution in any way. and the european union cannot whitewash this attack, or else it will be made even more ridiculous than it already is. three leaders, weakened in their countries, decided to follow up this attack as if it were their main purpose. they consulted no one, not even their respective parliaments. they have not informed anyone and have made a ridiculous image of the united nations and its secretary-general, the same ridiculous image they have made of the european union, the european commission, the european parliament, which was never consulted, and, curiously, what the commission and parliament are doing is saying that we must speak with one voice. there were two european leaders who spoke alone, yes, they spoke with one voice, but they did not consult, they did not inform the european union at any time. the tragedy of syria is that nobody cares about the syrian people, that is the biggest tragedy and we cannot agree to a military escalation and we cannot whitewash this attack.
mr president, the use of chemical weapons cannot be tolerated anywhere. but as we've seen before, indiscriminate bombing of assad's arsenal, as surgical as it is, makes no strategic difference in ending the war in syria, or punishing the criminals, or preventing further chemical attacks. we need the european union to act with political determination, strategic autonomy and military muscle to enforce the prohibition of chemical weapons and, above all, to exercise its responsibility to protect the syrian people, the people who remain in syria. before we pay for the reconstruction in syria and encourage the return of refugees, we need a political solution to the conflict, yes. but make no mistake, it will not be found, and we will not help find it, if we do not stop the russians, the iranians, the saudis, the turks, the americans, the israelis, assad and terrorist groups from daesh to al-qaeda, from continuing to use syrian soil for crusades at the expense of the syrian people. the european union member states have forces they can mobilise within the framework of the europe of security and defence to impose no-fly zones in syria, to open and defend humanitarian corridors and to bring assad and other criminals in syria to the international criminal court. that is what mrs mogherini should propose to the member states. this is what they must be confronted with. no more tolerance of impunity, no more lack of europe.
mr president, the syrian tragedy is probably the most striking expression of the chaotic situation affecting the international system today. as someone here has already said, it is, in fact, the greatest failure of the international community in recent years. eight years of a terrible war, with no prospect of a solution in sight. this military intervention is justified in view of the chemical weapons attack perpetrated by the syrian government against its own people. but in fact it has not changed anything in the military situation or the political situation in syria. and those can only be changed by a grand diplomatic solution. the european union has that responsibility to lead that diplomatic process. in this respect, the brussels conference can and must play an absolutely decisive role. as someone has already said, europe is also missing in this process. europe must play a more active role, it must reveal a strategy, it must make a new commitment to the political and diplomatic settlement of the conflict, because there is no other way of resolving it than through politics and diplomacy.
in writing. we condemn in the strongest terms the attacks on syria. these attacks violate international law. in this field they confirm the recurrence of the united states and the major powers of the european union in using false pretexts to justify their warlike adventures which aim no further than imperial domination over the middle east and its oil reserves. this barbaric aggression is in response to the alleged use of chemical weapons by the syrian government. there is currently no evidence of this or any of the other alleged attacks, despite international investigations conducted and approved by the syrian government. it is symptomatic, moreover, that the missiles were launched on the day when the mission of inspectors was to begin its work. while we condemn further this escalation in the conflict, we reaffirm our solidarity with the syrian people who are fighting against the western-funded terrorist forces that have sought since 2011 to repeat the scenario experienced in libya or iraq. we are convinced that peace will speak louder and that the people will soon be able to regain their sovereignty.
madam president, this debate should be about the european union against putin's russia which kills russian journalists like maksim borodin, which has invaded and occupied the territories of ukraine and georgia, which is preventing the security council from acting in syria, which is funding the racist far right in europe and the united states, which is spreading fake news and cyber attacks and threatening invincible nuclear weapons. we need to keep talking to russia, yes. but, of course, with strategic sense, armed with a european magnitsky act, with sanctions directed at those responsible for the murders of sergei, anna, boris, maksim and so many others and for the failed murders of the skripals in salisbury. expelling russian diplomats is not politics. putin retaliated and nothing changed. how long are we going to let our governments increase europe's dependence on russia through projects like nord stream 2? and how long are we going to let eu member states, starting with the uk, continue to be laundries for putin and his oligarchs to invest in europe, to capture governments and institutions and to attack our democracies from within?
mr president, the apparent detente in relations between the two koreas and the prospect of a summit between the north korean leader and the american president in may are welcome, but we must do so with great caution, as has already been said here. there is a peace problem here, but there is also a human rights problem here. the problem of peace has to do with the relationship between the two koreas and has to do with the need for the denuclearisation of north korea in due course and with the resolution of this old problem, which calls into question a democratic society such as south korean society. and then there's the serious human rights problem in north korea. north korea is one of the most tyrannical and closed-minded regimes in the present historical circumstances and therefore all the pressure must continue to be exerted on north korea so that this terrible political regime may give signs of openness towards a development, in the long term, towards a completely different situation from that which is still occurring today. let us be optimistic, but above all let us be very cautious about how this situation develops.
mr president, on 1 march, more than a month ago, two greek soldiers accidentally crossed the border with neighbouring turkey. they were immediately arrested by the turkish authorities and remain in that situation to this day. in other circumstances, situations of this nature have been quickly resolved by dialogue between the two countries. greece and the european union have already appealed to the turkish authorities to release the greek soldiers and return them to their country. turkey has responded negatively to this. in the face of such a scandalous situation, this european parliament cannot but express its profound solidarity with these two greek citizens, and as such european citizens, and urge the turkish authorities to release them immediately. the current turkish regime has been moving away from a democratic model. in recent years we have seen a real process of subversion of turkish democracy carried out by the turkish authorities themselves. the european union must firmly condemn this drift of turkey, but above all, in this particular case, we must express without any hesitation our solidarity with the greek people and with these two greek soldiers in particular.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr millán mon, for the quality of his report and for the openness he has shown to the contributions made by the various shadow rapporteurs. it is needless to stress here the importance of the relationship between the european union and australia. we have common political cultures, we have similar views on our internal institutional organisation model and, as such, we have very similar interpretations of major international issues. as has already been said here, on political issues, economic issues, trade issues, environmental issues, issues relating to the promotion of human rights, there are many points of view which coincide between the european union and australia, and therefore we must, in this specific historical circumstance, strengthen our links with australia. at the same time, we must pave the way for the conclusion of a trade agreement. we live in a time dominated by protectionist fears. protectionism is gaining ground on the left and the right. we must oppose this, i believe, in order to affirm the very values of europe, the principle of free trade properly framed by properly established agreements with other regions. australia is just one of the countries with which we should seek to establish as soon as possible a trade agreement which will certainly be beneficial to both sides.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are one year ahead of the next european elections, and we feel this is the right moment to address the president of the european council, as someone presenting a leader’s agenda, and the president of the commission, as someone presenting a road map for the european union, in the following terms: we need, once and for all, to have a full match between our vision, our ambition and the means we deliver to meet this ambition. this is not happening yet and this european council was, once again, clear evidence of this. we should ask whether it is possible for europe to become a leading continent in energy transition, in making the best of the digital revolution with full respect of privacy, and turning these into more and better jobs. yes it is possible for europe to be the leading continent, but is this being delivered to all regions and cities of europe? no, this is not the case. then we should ask whether there is a lack of resources to meet this ambition. no, there is not a lack of resources: we need to go to the new sources of taxation. all the discussion on digital tax makes a lot of sense, and we do not understand why we are still hesitating about that. we need to move forward, because the sources are there. the first test will be the level of ambition to be set for the next multiannual financial framework, the community budget, because of course we need to address the new needs of external action. stronger means, including defence. but this should not be done by sacrificing the commitment with cohesion policy, which must remain strong in europe. but let me tell you that the bigger test will be about the eurozone, because once and for all – this is the heart of the problem in europe now – we cannot have a eurozone where the possibilities to invest in the future are completely different. this is creating great inequality, so we need to provide not only a completed banking union – yes, we need to complete that – but we need to integrate the european stability mechanism into the community framework. this is the moment to move in this direction. we need to provide the fiscal capacity to enable all members of the eurozone to invest in the future and create better jobs. if you do not address this problem, the ground is there for populist nationalist forces to go on growing all over europe. so we need to go to the heart of the problem, to overcome the eurozone crisis once and for all, and to enable europe to bring real european solutions for european citizens. we believe that now is the time to move – before the european elections.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the scandal of facebook and cambridge analytica is a wake—up call. all of a sudden, everybody understands that the digital revolution involves opportunities but also risks, and sometimes threats, of creating companies without corporate responsibility, of creating jobs without proper social protection and now about taking on board our personal data and using these for the purpose of economic and political manipulation. we just cannot accept this. we need to regain control of our lives and europe must take the lead in this. this is the right moment to invent our european way for the digital revolution and to regain digital sovereignty. and the only way to regain digital sovereignty is through full use of the european scale. we have taken the first step. the s&d group played a pioneering role, calling in this parliament for the regulation on general data protection, but of course this is just the first step. we know now there is an important regulation in the hands of the council on e—privacy, and we urge the council to start a trilogue immediately, because the urgency is clear. of course we want mr zuckerberg to appear in front of us in the european parliament to give proper explanations and proper guarantees, but i believe – and also have expectations regarding the commission– that we need a broader approach in order to pave the way for our european agenda on digital governance, starting with a proper assessment of how social networks work, and need to encourage european innovation in this area. this has to do with how we deal with artificial intelligence. most of all, we would make sure that all citizens can count on generalised digital skills to master the major developments which are taking place.
mr president, this is not a debate about social networks, it is a debate about freedom and democracy. over the last century, we've built a society, a culture and an economy based on information, but we haven't thought about an ethic to protect data. in fact, most of this house actually prevented real privacy protection in the digital age, and governments are now blocking it. i'm not sure. algorithms and machine learning software are now a weapon in political combat. the internet is full of algorithms that analyze and predict our behavior through obscure software. we're not just talking about spying on us or stealing our data, we're talking about software that uses our data to determine what articles we have access to, who we keep in touch with, who can keep in touch with us. in short, this has a name, and that name is manipulation. cambridge analytica has clearly shown us that this is a multi-billion dollar business, and if we do nothing else, those with the money will continue to have access to power.
mr president, big data may be the oil of the 21st century, but there is a fundamental difference between the black gold of the last century and the information we share online today. when we talk about data protection and privacy, we are not talking about a resource, but about a fundamental right of european citizens. a right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and by the constitutions of several member states. the criminal access of cambrige analytica to private information of facebook users is an attack on the fundamental right to data protection of european citizens who have had their privacy violated. if it is serious in absolute terms in each of the almost three million cases in europe, it is even more serious when we look at the potential consequences. when we know that the data of one million and one hundred thousand britons was breached and used to design the brexit campaign, in which leave won by little more than that, we cannot help but draw some worrying conclusions. if that is the case, and if the most important decision in the last decades on european integration was influenced by a crime, then we are facing an attack on the rule of law. that is why facebook owes an explanation to this parliament. that is why the commission cannot fail to act. and that is why citizens cannot ignore their rights, which will be strengthened with the entry into force of the general data protection regulation. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much for your question. let's be clear, we can't go back to the last century and it's clear that information is power and information with rules can be business. i'm not against it. what i'm against is the use of personal data without people's consent. each of us owns our data, and that's what's important to safeguard. we have european legislation coming into force, we have to ensure that all those who intervene on the european market comply with that legislation.
mr president, the misuse of facebook data calls for a strong response at the level of rules and at the level of ethics. the example of data protection shows that the european union wins when it anticipates. when we are pioneers we can lead and this is an opportunity to reclaim a relevant voice in the digital globalization, with a strong technological commitment and with a differentiation by values, affirming our digital identity, own, ethical, fair and trustworthy. differentiation by values and translation into legal and technological solutions is the way i propose to respond to the challenge we face. the protection of citizens' rights and democratic transparency are part of our matrix of shared values. we must therefore require platforms operating in the european market to embrace in their models and algorithms the shared values that shape the european digital identity. the debate around data has alerted more european citizens to the issue. we need convincing technological and policy responses. it is time to value europe's digital identity.
madam president, facebook is not just an american company. it operates on a world market, many thousands of users, if not millions, are european, it is truly a global company. to that extent, mark zuckerberg owes an explanation not only to the us congress. you owe the european parliament an explanation. to say that only anyone who wants to join facebook is at the very least ridiculous, when it's not, the worst of arguments because facebook really has no competition, it gives no alternative. it would be like saying that only those who want electricity have it at home. obviously people need electricity and global communications are now an inevitability and this scandal is of a gravity that cannot be resolved with a simple apology. the use and manipulation of personal data for political purposes without the informed consent of the data subject is unacceptable in a democratic state governed by the rule of law. to that extent, the confession of using the data of 87 million facebook users, but not just facebook, to influence campaigns around the world, simply cannot happen. it cannot happen in the united states of america, it certainly cannot happen in europe. and we, who are politicians, and we who are going to vote in 2019, are the first to ensure that this will not happen again.
madam president, this scandal is awakening citizens to the tremendous risks and opportunities of the digital dependence of the economy and of the whole of our current way of life, facebook, big data, the internet of things, artificial intelligence, fundamental rights and genuine elections, infrastructure security, etc. are at stake. this time europe is leading with the gdpr, which is about to come into force and has a global reach. the e-privacy regulation is late in the council. facebook, cambridge analytica, palantir and other companies are making money off of our privacy, and they're lending their algorithms to more sinister feats of social and political manipulation and discrimination. they have chinese and russian competitors that they don't care about today for the nightmare of tomorrow. breaking monopolies and preventing and heavily sanctioning abuses against citizens and democracy, making digital platforms and targeted advertising, paying taxes is more than a european design: it is important to save democratic control and humanity in the globalized era. the commission must act, and now.
in the three years since the adoption of the fourth anti-money laundering and terrorist financing directive, we have revised it and adopted the fifth directive, seeking to deal with the terrorist threat and the revelations of the panama papers. the fifth directive represents a strengthening of control and transparency mechanisms, largely thanks to the persistence of the european parliament, which managed, over eight months of negotiations, to persuade the majority of member states to accept a large part of its requirements. it was parliament which ensured public access to the registers of beneficial owners of companies in the european union, with the aim of ending the opacity of shell companies, used to evade tax and launder money. we have lifted the veil on trusts, even though public access to their beneficiaries is restricted to those who have a legitimate interest, as required by the council. we are guaranteeing more scrutiny and supervision of the professional and service providers, who, as we know, are instrumental in tax evasion and money laundering schemes, and should not be left to self-regulation, which regulates nothing. we have included more market operators among those with due diligence duties towards their clients, such as art dealers and all those who provide tax advice, we have restricted the use of prepaid cards, we have created better cooperation mechanisms between authorities to facilitate transnational investigations and we have created a list of public functions that designate who are the politically exposed persons in the european union subject to enhanced due diligence. all applicants for gold visas and similar schemes in the member states will have to be subject to enhanced scrutiny. but it is also important to stress what we have not achieved, because of the refusal of the member states, such as the creation of a european financial information unit and the inclusion in the central registers of beneficiaries of companies not established in the european union but which conduct significant business here. we have missed an outcome which could have a global impact on financial transparency under the responsibility of the council. too often in these negotiations we have the feeling that some of our governments do not really want to combat money laundering, but rather to facilitate it, captured by interests. the adoption of this directive is indeed a step in the right direction, but much remains to be done. and let's not kid ourselves, many of the new member states are captured by sinister interests, like the mafia that controls e-gambling and invests in cryptocurrencies.
mr president, despite the tax scandals which have revealed to the world the ecosystem which promotes opacity and anonymity and which allows money laundering, the european union remains conditioned by the interests of large multinational companies. the basic measures recommended by the majority of those working to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism are systematically thwarted by those who want to change just a few things so that everything remains the same. the proposals naturally and always fall far short of expectations and what is needed. i simply ask: how long will we tolerate economic and financial interests being put above the rights of citizens and the people? that's the question i leave to the audience.
mr president, this regulation has of course positive aspects, but it commits an original sin, which is to focus all its attention on the product, while omitting the social and environmental component associated with organic production. in other words, this regulation in practice promotes the production of organic products on an industrial scale, which are also export-oriented, thus seriously undermining a fundamental principle which should link organic production to a production model based on small and medium-sized farms and short-term production and marketing. we have of course given this regulation the benefit of the doubt, and the future will tell whether our doubts were justified or not.
mr president, commissioner, it is essential that organic certification of foodstuffs reflects a production method that meets consumer expectations. the text we are voting on tomorrow is the result of lengthy negotiations and reflects the balance that can be struck in this respect. i welcome the inclusion of cork and sea salt stoppers in the list of products eligible for organic certification. i do, however, have one caveat. the european union covers the outermost regions, whose production conditions are similar to those of certain third countries. often there are imports from these third countries that are allowed to use the organic logo, but this is not possible for the same products from european territory. i admit that this is a complex issue, but i understand that it has not been fully resolved in this dossier, to the detriment of the competitiveness of some european producers.
the revision of this regulation, mr president, brings some development to the sector in terms of modernising and harmonising organic farming practices at european level. the acceptance of sea salt and natural cork stoppers is good news for portugal, but there is much to be done. although european citizens are increasingly demanding safe food, we cannot always conclude that only organic food is healthy, because recent studies have found more chemical residues in organic food than in conventional food and this must be avoided. the controls by the competent authorities must be increased and i have some reservations about the transition periods to organic farming, which are too long in the case of greenhouses, and the fact that a common european limit value for the presence of unauthorised substances has not been set, which could always be an obstacle to the free movement of organic products within the union. i would like to conclude, commissioner, by advocating the strengthening of training measures on organic farming and by stressing the enormous importance of this new regulation for agricultural production in the outermost regions, which, as we know, is already sustainable and organic. now we'll have to work on your certification.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all of the members who participated in this evening’s debate, and have indeed participated in many debates on this issue over the years. i also want to take the opportunity to thank the estonian and maltese presidencies, as others have done, for their great work. my sense, having listened to the debate, is that there is broad support for the compromise agreement that has been reached by the three institutions. as mr andrieu and mr lins noted, this compromise is the fruit of four years of work and eighteen trilogues. so it is inevitable that such a compromise doesn’t satisfy everybody because you will have views stretching from mr agnew’s views to mr de castro’s views and other views as well which have to be satisfied as much as possible. however, this outcome is, as i said earlier, a reasonable one. otherwise, we would have thrown away all the good work and all of the progress we’ve made over those four years, and i don’t think that would be a responsible way to act. this brings about much needed improvement in the regulatory environment and framework for organic production in europe. it shouldn’t be forgotten that the reason why this commission proposal was originally brought forward by my predecessor mr ciolos was because there was a scandal associated with the imports of organic materials into some of our member states in the european union which was concealed for a long time. this imported organic produce had the potential to damage the organic sector in europe. this was the backdrop to more ambitious proposal originally brought forward by the commission. whatever one’s view about the desired level of ambition, there can be little or no doubt that the text now on the table represents a lot of progress. i reject therefore, mr zullo’s criticisms. in particular, i reject any suggestion that the commission yielded to any interest. you can point the finger somewhere else; we didn’t yield to any interest, whether from northern europe or from anywhere else. what the commission did was to engage in good faith in this democratic process with the members of this house and the council, and the outcome on which you will vote tomorrow is the result of that progress. the potential of the organic sector has yet to be fully realised. this legislation can help, as mr jakovčić said, by providing harmonisation, simplification and standardisation, which is contrary to the claim made by ms noichl. as the sector grows, i hope that the european union can become an exporter of organic products, which need not, as mr viegas suggested, be a threat to the sector. your rapporteur and his colleagues have done a good job in bringing about a lot of improvements in the sector and we have a balanced outcome i feel that we can deliver for our organic sectors in the future, and our organic farmers in particular. we have a legal text which can only help the organic sector. i commend this text to the house and i hope it will get a strong vote here in this house when it is voted upon tomorrow.
the organic production method is based on the principle of making agricultural production compatible with the promotion of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems. in addition, organic farming has other virtues, such as protecting the health of consumers and promoting a more sustainable agricultural model, because it is based on small and medium-sized farming and family farming, as opposed to the agribusiness model based on intensive production and the high incorporation of synthetic chemical additives. the new regulation, which contains positive elements, whether in the extension of the production spectrum or in the clarification of certain concepts, points, however, in a direction which in some way subverts characteristics of organic farming, in particular by paving the way for a certain industrialization of the organic production method. taking advantage of the positive impact of a label, resulting from a positive perception of organic products for growing layers of consumers, and the associated economic gains, it is embarking on a path that distorts the concept of organic farming as we understand it today. the focus is solely on the product, ignoring the social and environmental component that has always been associated with organic farming. instead of promoting local agriculture and short-term production and marketing, the aim is to fit organic farming into an export-oriented model which we are not following.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would begin by saying that it is already, i would say, a tradition in this parliament to report on the relationship of parliament with national parliaments and in particular on the application of the treaty of lisbon. this is the fourth or fifth report we have on this subject. the first point i would like to make is that it is clear today, even at the level of cosac, and this is reflected in the report, it is clear today that there is a much better relationship between the national parliaments and the european parliament, that both levels of institutions have understood that they are working together to give democratic legitimacy to the european union. what is the first news in this report? it is indeed a question of interpreting the role of national parliaments in a constitutional sense, i would say. until now we have known that national parliaments play a role at european level, but we have not understood why, what the reason was, and here it is very clearly stated that national parliaments have a different vocation from that of governments: the governments are represented in the council of ministers and the european council, but national parliaments have the advantage of reflecting internal diversity. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a parliamentary representation, but that it should be the only institution in the world to have a parliamentary representation. that is why two proposals are made in this report. the first is that representation in interparliamentary meetings should always be proportional, that is to say, there should be representatives of the majority in parliament but also of the minority, and the second is that in the opinions which parliaments give, and particularly when they want, for example, to activate the yellow card on initiatives relating to the commission, there should be the will of the majority in parliament, but there should be a dissenting vote, there should be a defeated vote by the minorities. that is to say, to bring the political arena that exists at home to the european level. that is the specific role of national parliaments. then there is another important development on the question of the early warning system and the yellow card, because all the national parliaments have told us that they have finally had reservations about the eight-week deadline. we cannot change the treaty, but we can accommodate these eight weeks, and that is why we are calling on the european commission to recognise that the eight-week period should not be counted in the holiday period and, moreover, that a technical period should be allowed so that all parliaments receive translated versions of legislative initiatives at the same time. only then can we activate the yellow card and finally give it the status it has. finally, i would like to say on this point that there are several amendments here, in particular from the socialist group and the liberal group, which must be rejected because they say: 'well, national parliaments do not use the eight weeks because they do not want to'. this report should send a positive signal to the national parliaments, and if they say that eight weeks is not enough, we can extend that period, even if only a little, we must do so, and therefore reject these amendments by the socialist and liberal groups, which are amendments against the national parliaments. then, finally, i would like to say that we are also making a proposal here, not to allow the green card, but to allow suggestions from national parliaments to the european commission on legislative initiatives, that we are advocating here a great strengthening of ipex, in the sense that all national parliaments have updated and detailed information on european matters and, finally, i think that is one of the most constructive proposals, is the idea of having a european week, that is, a week simultaneously in the 27 national parliaments which is a week to celebrate european issues. the presidents, the commissioners, the vice-presidents, the members of the european parliament of different nationalities in the 27 capitals, in the same week, at the same time, throughout europe, are organising a european week, in which there can be, let us say, this reflection on these issues. it would be a way of making agreements at parliamentary level in the sense that president macron has advocated, and that is a good way of discussing the future of europe. doing so every year under the commission's agenda and on a european theme.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon not only exacerbated the inequality in the power relations between the states, strengthening the larger ones, but it also constituted a significant attack on the power of the national parliaments, since powers which were theirs were usurped for the sphere of the european union. in recent years, with the budgetary treaty, the european semester and the economic governance package, this usurpation has been taken even further, for example in the budgetary field, but not only, in that it constitutes a disturbing attack on democracy even at the merely formal level. the role which the treaty of lisbon is alleged to have given to national parliaments, that of mere monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity, is largely a sham, and its futility is quite clear. even where parliaments raise objections, the european commission ignores these objections and maintains its proposals. it is therefore necessary to dismantle this farce and not to insist on it, and to return to the national parliaments the power that has been taken away from them.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is an honour to be shared first with our colleague from the committee on constitutional affairs, mr castaldo, and for the vice-president responsible for national parliaments. so i think this is a fortunate occasion. thank you very much. senhora presidente, eu gostaria só de sublinhar dois aspetos que aqui foram aflorados no debate antes de, naturalmente, agradecer o contributo de todos e, em particular, também as palavras do comissário hogan mas queria sublinhar o seguinte: o primeiro ponto, que me parece muito importante, é o de chamar a atenção para que é muito importante que a comissão, no exame que faz da subsidiariedade, seja um pouco mais aberta. na verdade, a ligação entre subsidiariedade e proporcionalidade é extremamente difícil de fazer e, por isso, deveria haver um self-restraint quando se corre logo para negar qualquer cartão amarelo dizendo que está em causa a proporcionalidade e não a subsidiariedade. isto era o aspeto que deveria ser tido em conta. isto não desmente em nada o que diz o colega jáuregui atondo porque a subsidiariedade em muitos casos implica entregar a competência à comissão europeia, à união europeia e não aos estados nacionais e não aos parlamentos nacionais. mas, em muitas situações, invoca-se a proporcionalidade como um pretexto para não fazer uma verdadeira aferição da subsidiariedade. este era um aspeto que eu gostaria de marcar aqui. e o segundo aspeto era insistir na ideia de que dar mais algum tempo e alguma folga aos parlamentos nacionais é justo e é devido, e é justo e é devido por esta razão: nem todos os parlamentos nacionais têm os recursos que têm, por exemplo, o parlamento alemão ou o parlamento sueco e portanto, naturalmente, a forma como em determinadas circunstâncias se apreciam certas matérias também depende de país para país e de estrutura para estrutura e, portanto, criar um pouco mais de tempo permite colocar todos os parlamentos em condições de igualdade e permite um diálogo maior entre os vários parlamentos. há um ponto que gostaria de sublinhar, no qual me revejo e quase todos os colegas os sublinharam, que é: naturalmente que o grande papel dos parlamentos nacionais é no controlo dos seus governos. esta é que é a questão. se eles forem capazes de o fazer com proficiência tenho a certeza de que a união europeia funcionará melhor.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, acting together to address vaccine reservations and reverse the decline in vaccination rates in the european union is a priority. i have in fact sent a question to the european commission in this connection, i raised a number of questions in the recent debate in the envi committee, and the resolution we are debating today is in line with what i have been told in all these circumstances. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs elena gentile, on her excellent work, and i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the extraordinary effort he has put into solving this problem. the conditions are in place so that together, the european parliament, the member states and the european commission can put in place consistent policies that actually tackle the problem. strengthening the legal basis of the european vaccination plan, developing a joint purchasing platform which already has 19 countries and which must be developed, implementing data sharing practices so that there is better coordination and informed coordination, developing research on this subject in an open, transparent way to increase citizens' confidence and also the reliability of vaccines, integrating these measures into a wider plan for health promotion at european level, also taking into account, for example, animal vaccination and the fight against antibiotic resistance, launching a european information and education campaign on this important subject for public health and the quality of life of all europeans, this is what we have the instruments to do today. we must be practical and capable of putting into practice measures which improve the concrete lives of citizens. this is an example, it needs to be done quickly, decisively, transparently, because it is important for people, because it is important for the future of europe and for the health of the world.
madam president, in 2017, measles killed 35 people in a group of 50 countries in the european region where more than 20,000 cases of the disease were recorded. a high incidence of cases is estimated in children under one year of age who are still too young to receive the first dose of the vaccine. hence the importance of herd immunity. this is compromised when a significant portion of the population is not vaccinated, a situation that harms not only those who have chosen not to be vaccinated, but also those who cannot be immunized. vaccination has helped eradicate diphtheria, congenital rubella, and neonatal tetanus. in 2016, portugal was officially recognised as being a book of measles, but is now facing the third outbreak of the disease in two years. there is a strong and systematic need for training and awareness-raising measures by public health services, necessarily coordinated at european level, to combat misinformation and prejudice whose harmful effects are becoming evident and to encourage vaccination.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. moreover, it is not surprising that only seven european protection decisions have been identified in the context of the estimated 100,000 women residing in the eu who could be covered by this directive. at a time when violence against women is increasing and becoming almost commonplace, sometimes with total impunity, sometimes with lethal consequences, whether through domestic violence, sexual harassment and assault, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation and prostitution, states are required to take unequivocal measures to protect victims, measures which are often incompatible with the macroeconomic guidelines imposed by the eu. they involve strengthening the social functions of the state, investing in the human and technical skills of the security and judicial forces, social security, health, or in the creation of public networks of support for victims, always ensuring the mechanisms of communication and interpretation, an obstacle to effective assistance to the victim.
the situation in the philippines is intolerable and is becoming increasingly serious. the philippine government has used various measures aimed at silencing civil society. one of the most commonly used tactics to this end is the criminalisation of ngos and human rights defenders through laws that define terrorism too broadly. it was in the context of this type of legislation that the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, victoria tauli-corpuz, was included, along with several indigenous human rights defenders, in a list of organizations and individuals allegedly responsible for terrorist activities. the inclusion of this un special rapporteur puts her physical integrity at risk, it may even put her own life at risk. last december, the rapporteur, victoria tauli-corpuz, had made public statements condemning the policies of rodrigo duterte, including the killings of members of indigenous communities in the south of the country, as well as the forced displacement of these communities to other regions. and it's good to remember that in 2017, 41 environmental rights defenders were murdered in the philippines. this situation is totally intolerable and the european union cannot but have a say in this matter.
mr. president, gaza is the largest open-air prison on the planet, a disgrace to humanity. gaza is suffering from the triple oppression of hamas, the cruel israeli blockade and the illegal israeli occupation of palestine. without a viable palestinian state there will be no peace and without peace in israel, whose legitimacy and existence are at stake. we have already counted 30 dead and 2,000 wounded, many of them women and children, at the hands of the armed and criminally disproportionate israeli defense forces in the latest protests by the desperate people of gaza. in this resolution, parliament calls for what the united nations calls for, at a minimum: an end to the blockade, the release of political prisoners, an international and independent investigation into the crimes against the unarmed and desperate protesters in gaza. what has the eu to do with not reflecting in its relations with israel the violations that call into question the association agreement? why does he allow himself to be blackmailed and intimidated by israel? why do you turn a blind eye to the heinous crimes and consequences of israel's illegal occupation of palestine against regional, european and global security?
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, i should like to begin by emphasizing the work the commission has done in seeking to bring together, balance, competitiveness and territorial and social cohesion. the budget must have a competitive aspect, but it must never forget internal solidarity. this is a proposal which represents a good basis for work, it is a good starting point for negotiations where unanimity in the council and a favourable opinion from the european parliament are required. it has positive points: the strengthening of erasmus+, the increase also in the budget for interrail, the priority for youth, the strengthening also of research and innovation, economic and monetary union and the possibility of a fund to combat symmetrical to asymmetrical shocks, a programme for reforms, the strengthening of security, support for migration, the simplification that is advocated and also the end of rebates. but there are also points where we feel it is necessary to go further. it is important that cohesion policy is not reduced and that the common agricultural policy is also kept within its current envelope. and i ask the member states if they are prepared to cut their national budgets, if they are prepared to cut the amounts they receive under cohesion policy and under the common agricultural policy, because cohesion policy is also essential for investment in the european union.
mr president, this is a big moment for europeans to be ambitious in imagining their future and also in imagining new solutions to finance the future. this means that, if we know that our future will be reshaped by the digital revolution and the energy transition, we need to be bold on the transition towards aligning our budget but also on the way to finance this budget. that’s why we welcome the fact that the commission is putting ideas on own resources on the table. this is part of the solution, but we would also like to have digital tax included in these own resources. and then we have the way the challenges are being faced. of course, we need to cope with the challenges of migration, defence and development; we need to multiply erasmus; we need to strengthen innovation and the way we proceed with research. but at the end of the day, what really matters in order to keep unity among europeans is to have a strong commitment with cohesion and convergence and to overcome the divergences which have been part of our history in recent years. so that’s why – and this is a message not only for commission but also the council – we in the parliament will fight for cohesion not to be sacrificed. we in parliament will fight for the eurozone to include also clear instruments to overcome divergences. and we are still not there. so we consider that the main test will be sure that the promise of the social pillar will be delivered everywhere in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, our position has been very clear from the outset on the pressure on cohesion policy. there could not and should not be any reduction that would harm cohesion policy. commissioner, i understand the new challenges of a union of 27, and i would like to stress here the focus and priority given to security, border protection, research and support for young people through erasmus+ and interrail. but there are two negatives: when we talk about supporting businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, the digital economy, we are missing a funding line for tourism that is not mentioned. and i cannot but regret this announced cut in cohesion policy. we are talking about a cut of about 5% in cohesion policy and the cap and it is crucial to keep the axis of the outermost regions in cohesion policy, because we are talking about solidarity with the outermost regions which have increased costs in mobility, education, health, and we need this solidarity from the union which is not in this document.
the european commission presented its draft budget for the period 2021-2027 yesterday. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. if, on the one hand, the commission is trying to respond to the needs arising from new phenomena which directly challenge the european union's capacity to act, whether in the field of economic competitiveness or in the field of the security of citizens, on the other hand, cohesion policy is clearly being sacrificed, with the resulting penalisation of the effort of convergence between the richer and poorer regions. the relegation of the convergence objective to the background could lead to an accentuation of the two major geographical dividing lines affecting europe today: the north-south and west-east lines. we are, however, only at the beginning of a process which is expected to be complex, protracted and highly controversial.
the multiannual financial framework of the european union takes as strategic elements all the guidelines for deepening capitalist integration, which is responsible for unequal, unfair and asymmetrical development between the different countries in the european union and which has accentuated portugal's divergence in this framework. time and life have shown that the european union funds have never compensated (nor could compensate) for the loss of sovereignty, the destruction of national production and the compromise of the country's development possibilities, which resulted and result from the single market, the euro and the common policies of the eu. this is especially true at a time when there are plans to cut funding to countries such as portugal, which have been the most affected by integration, in favour of increasing the number of items which benefit the main beneficiaries of integration, the eu's major powers and their economic groups. the proposal for the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework presented today by the european commission thus creates the conditions for further accentuating the divergence which has characterised the eu, with the increase in inequalities and asymmetries between member states and within each member state. it also fuels the militaristic escalation and the security drift into which the major european powers are plunging.
in writing. – i see no ambition nor conviction in this mff proposal, president juncker. we need the european commission to act with courage to make governments in the european council live up to their responsibilities and find ways to substantially increase the union’s own resources to finance all priorities and common policies, including new challenges in security & defence and, of course, cohesion & convergence policies, which are strategic for sustaining euro and union. governments in council must be urged to stop tax dumping and instead harmonise tax policies, so that they do not continue to enable tax evasion, money laundering and huge amounts syphoned into organised crime and even terrorist organisations - that is what’s happening with 50 billion euros per year lost in vat fraud. vat reform, as proposed by commissioner moscovici, can no longer be delayed by the council and would increase own resources. the european commission should forcefully push the council to adopt ccctb and a minimum corporate tax rate to ensure that corporations in the digital economy and polluting industries and financial transactions would pay tax to increase the union’s own resources and national incomes. and so that smes and european citizens, who pay their taxes, will not be further overburdened.
european citizens will be asking the following question: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer, unfortunately, is no. we have a proposal for the 2021-2027 multiannual framework with less funding for cohesion and the common agricultural policy, but with more funding for security and defence and for arms policy. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the budget. in other words, we have a short budget, which will further force the neoliberal reforms that the eu seeks to impose on the member states against the will of their peoples. this is therefore the picture of the eu, an eu increasingly disconnected from the real problems of the people and the workers.
in writing. the proposal for a multiannual financial framework, adopted by the european commission and presented to the european parliament today, is quantitatively inadequate and qualitatively unbalanced. it is unacceptable that, in a european union where development disparities are increasing, cohesion and convergence policies should be reduced in financial terms rather than strengthened. nor is a robust vision for completing economic and monetary union implied in the wording of the proposal. the proposal presented reflects a management framework and not an ambition framework. we are facing a starting point and not a finishing point. the european parliament must do everything possible to correct the imbalances in the proposal and to make the most of the positive aspects, including the increase in the funds allocated to the horizon europe programme, the proposals on own resources and the mechanism for financing structural reforms, the financial stabilisation fund and the duplication of the erasmus programme. as presented, the european commission's proposal does not meet the eu's needs and does not deserve a favourable vote by the european parliament. i hope that the negotiation process can change this scenario.
madam president, madam mogherini, i would like to express my full support for your initial remarks. there are clearly no conditions to guarantee a free and fair democratic process in venezuela. there is no possibility of democratic elections in a country where there are people who are in prison for political reasons. there are no conditions for free and democratic elections when very important sectors of society and eminent personalities are not in a position to stand for these elections. there is no possibility of free and democratic elections when there is a set of procedural rules which are not even remotely guaranteed, as is the case today in venezuela. and that is why this call by the european parliament for a postponement of these elections is a call in the right direction. venezuela is not just going through a very serious political crisis. it is also experiencing a serious economic and social crisis and a profound humanitarian crisis. we think that the only possible solution is through dialogue, there is no other. we continue to bet on dialogue between the various political forces with expression in venezuela, both those currently in power and those in opposition. and that is why we are calling on the current regime in venezuela to understand that insisting on these elections will not only not help to solve the problem in venezuela, but will also greatly aggravate the problem itself. on the contrary, a postponement of the elections, creating the conditions for the participation of all those who want to participate in these presidential elections, elections held in a free and democratic manner, under the observation and scrutiny of various international bodies, including the european union and this european parliament, is indeed the way that can contribute to solving the very serious problems that continue to affect venezuela. and so i repeat what i said at the beginning: i fully agree with the sensible, fair and balanced position you announced at the beginning of this debate.
madam president, yet another unprecedented debate on venezuela with a resolution which violates the very rules of this parliament in order to pursue the intentions of interference and interference in a sovereign country. admit it, your strategy has failed. the same strategy that has fueled assault and destabilization throughout the region, that legitimized the coup in brazil and the fraudulent elections in honduras. they are now seeking to discredit the presidential elections, the very elections they have been calling for incessantly, the very elections that part of the divided opposition is now choosing to boycott, the very opposition that you have been promoting, responsible for the most ignominious acts of violence and economic, social and political disorder in that country. we hereby salute and express our solidarity with the determined venezuelan people who have been able to resist the imperialist offensive, the crisis imposed on them from outside, the criminal and brutal economic and financial sanctions, and who on the 20th will once again give you the best answer, sovereignly affirming the choice of their future.
i would just like to make two points, madam president: the first concerns vat, and i would like to say right away that i regret that the european union, which is ruthless in its treatment of countries which deviate by a few tenths from the deficit, is so permissive in its treatment of vat and is unable to combat this phenomenon, which represents a loss of eur 150 billion a year. the second aspect i would like to raise is the irregularities which are not fraudulent, as the report says, but which are detected in the cap and which are naturally linked to the last reform of the cap, which has brought enormous bureaucracy to farmers and is at the origin of a number of irregularities. in this respect, the conclusions of this report should point to the need to simplify the cap, because this will be a decisive step towards solving part of the problem.
madam president, commissioner, despite all our efforts, we still have populations and regions in this union with few transport alternatives, which has negative implications for their sustainable economic development. a good transport network is also essential for reversing the depopulation trends in certain regions and for strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union. in the specific case of the outermost regions, given their excessive dependence on air transport, there is an urgent need to increase investment in the security of their airports, as is the case of madeira airport, which requires increased attention, largely due to climate change. i would also point out in connection with this report that de facto subsidies should remain the main source of funding. i am not opposed to private investment, but i believe that any contracting that is abusive and detrimental to the public interest should be avoided in public-private partnerships. we must also prevent monopolies from being created which distort the market and healthy competition.
madam president, the union's transport policy is indeed on track to be a real success in the union. member states have access to specific funds to develop their transport systems, to develop transport support infrastructures so that they are more efficient, more developed and better able to respond to various situations. the outermost regions have specific and added particularities and therefore the union's transport policy must look at these regions with their particularities. i would remind you that both port and airport infrastructure require support from the union. i have therefore already put a question to the commission and presented a pilot project to ensure that airport infrastructure in the outermost regions is given special attention to the cases of air pollution and climate change which are increasingly occurring.
madam president, the report we have before us stresses the importance of developing interconnection platforms. it combines this with the need for europe to focus on sustainability by integrating mitigation of global warming into cohesion policy. the transition to sustainable transport is thus a necessity that will contribute to the achievement of the european union's co2 emission reduction targets. the azores, my home region, as the western frontier of europe, situated between continental europe and north america, have been positioning themselves to meet these challenges. and they want to do it by creating a liquefied natural gas ship refuelling station based on a logistics hub located in the ocean port of victoria beach. projects such as this, which enhance cohesion by combining new economic opportunities, environmental objectives and greater efficiency in the use of infrastructure, should be given unconditional support in the post-2020 strategy.
mr president, commissioner jourová, colleagues, although we no longer make the headlines, although we no longer hear about those who, fleeing war and death, arrive at our borders, the truth is that we are sadly far from having solved the so-called 'refugee crisis'. the mismanagement of the humanitarian crisis that has struck the mediterranean and our borders, together with a common european asylum system that is unusual, that is badly functioning and, when it works, it works badly, has led to a set of long-lasting adverse effects. unfortunately, it is children who have felt the effects of this and who have suffered the most from the union's inability to act. in 2017 alone, more than 30,000 children arrived in europe, half of them alone. it is unacceptable that months go by without a single guardian being appointed for these children. it is also unacceptable that it will take months to reunite them with their families. we're taking away their future, as well as the nearly 1,000 who were incarcerated in 2016. the commission, i am sure, will find in parliament all the support it needs for a resolute defence of the rights of these children. but let me be clear: the member states are the ones most expected and demanded. only the member states have the means to save these children, who are not immigrants, refugees or asylum seekers. they're children, like ours.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the occurrence of fatal incidents on farms requires a multi-pronged approach to avoid what is avoidable. the proportion of fatal accidents in agriculture is higher than in other areas of the economy. prevention and training are key words. financial incentives and fair prices for farmers are needed to enable them to be properly remunerated for their work. it is essential to create the conditions for the proper maintenance of equipment and, on the other hand, to provide adequate information and raise awareness of the dangers of improper handling of agricultural machinery. vocational training for farmers should be given appropriate incentives, with priority given to promoting good practice in ensuring the highest safety in the use of agricultural machinery and vehicles.
mr president, mr prime minister, belgium is really a tax haven for the big fortunes and multinationals who pay, as you said, at least 25%. in fact, they pay a lot less with your tax rulings. it's a living hell for workers who pay an average of 42.8 percent of their income. belgium is also one of the countries in the council which is doing its utmost to maintain the current system of tax dumping, which distorts competition in the european internal market and prevents tax harmonization, which is crucial in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, tax evasion, fraud, etc. why is your government opposed to the vat reform proposed by the commission a year ago, which would be crucial to preventing €50 billion from continuing to benefit from fraud, criminal organisations, including terrorists, and which could be a source of increased own resources for the european union and the member states? why is your government opposed to the accis on digital industries, polluting industries and financial transactions?
mr president, you spoke of paying tribute to the memory of mrs daphne caruana galizia, but we should also remember the slovak journalist, ján kuciak, and his companion, who were also murdered for similar reasons. i would like to say how concerned i am at this moment about a letter we have received from europol, which reports on the limitations on investigations and any cooperation with the authorities in those investigations. it's a matter that needs to be dealt with.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it has been almost four months since the representative of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons, ican, nobel peace prize 2017, was here in this plenary, alluding precisely to this discussion, asking, at the end, to stand up for the prohibition and elimination of nuclear weapons, words that were applauded here by the whole house. since december, we have proposed, through an oral question which has, moreover, been endorsed by several groups, that this debate be considered, that a debate be held on the urgent and necessary abolition of nuclear weapons and the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, approved by the united nations in 2017, in advance of the high-level conference that body is preparing. this is the second time we have put this request here and we ask that the standing ovations which have been received here be translated into this necessary discussion tomorrow, tuesday, as the fifth item, and we also ask that the vote be taken by roll-call vote.
mr president, commissioners, this package, which aims to keep the european union at the technological frontier in this strategic industrial sector, is positive, it addresses key issues of safety, standardisation and regulation of automation and data exchange, and it extends the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to trucks. these are therefore very important lines of action, but their effectiveness depends on the success of the two structural frameworks of this package. firstly, the strategic plan for batteries and secondly, the harmonization of project authorization procedures in the transeuropean network. the €450 million, which will be invested through the connecting europe facility, will be made available to member states to promote road safety, digitalisation and multimodality and therefore cannot be spent on other projects. i hope that is the meaning of having three commissioners here. we must have joint projects to help catapult the european union back to leadership in a key industrial and technological area, which we have already led but in which in the last two years we have been losing ground to our main competitors.
mr president, let us be serious about this. the mobility package pursues the objectives of consolidating the single market, accelerating the process of privatisation of what still remains in public control, further compromising the sovereign decision-making capacities of states in defining their transport policies, benefiting from capital concentration processes while increasing the exploitation of workers. the proposals under discussion do not promote improvements in working conditions or safety. on the contrary, by increasing the working periods between rest periods they contribute to increased fatigue. the requirement of decent resting conditions is neglected. the unlimited increase in cabotage operations feeds and legitimizes labour exploitation, based on low wages and very long and irregular working hours, often paid per kilometre and under unacceptable pressure from the operator. the main objective of this package is not to improve working and social conditions. it is to make them worse in the name of profit, by providing services and cheap labour from countries like portugal to the big european companies and powers.
in writing. the mobility package pursues the objectives of consolidating the single market, accelerating the privatisation process of what remains in public control, further compromising the sovereign decision-making capacities of states in defining their transport policies and benefiting from capital concentration processes, while increasing the exploitation of workers. the proposals under discussion do not promote improvements in working conditions or safety. on the contrary, i did. by increasing the periods of work between periods of rest, they contribute to increased fatigue. the just demand for decent resting conditions is neglected. the unlimited increase in cabotage operations feeds and legitimizes labour exploitation based on low wages and very long and irregular working hours, often paid per km and under unacceptable pressure from operators. the great aim of this package is not to improve labour and social conditions, it is to worsen them in the name of profit, by providing services and cheap labour from countries like portugal to the big european companies and powers.
i would like to stress the commitment and the work of the rapporteurs, in particular my colleague, mrs ulrike rodust, in this key document for implementing the common fisheries policy, and also echo the words of the previous speakers and the commissioner. i would like to stress the importance of the most up-to-date scientific information and the inclusion of recreational fishing data in the scientific information to be taken into account in the scientific councils of the international council for the exploration of the seas and the scientific, technical and economic council for fisheries of the european commission. it is important that we approve the multiannual plan and put it into action, even though we recognise that it came out of the reduced trilogue of some of the provisions adopted in the european parliament on the date it was adopted. one of the handicaps that i find somewhat problematic is that the political agreement reached has reduced the ability to keep fishing limits below fmsy reference points. another is the lack of emphasis on the recovery of source species, thus concentrating on target species only. but you have to balance the great with the viable, with the negotiable. after several months of negotiations, to reverse a plan which, while not perfect, is nevertheless a very, very important advance, would be a mistake. in this context, i consider it absolutely essential that the multiannual plan should continue at this stage. it seems to me that the possible and important basis has been laid for the plan of specific measures to be presented by the regional organisations, taking into account not only the sustainability of stocks but also the protection of sensitive species and, of course, the income of fishing communities with interests in this area of fishing.
mr president, multiannual plans are instruments for fisheries management with indisputable virtues, capable of providing some temporary stability to fishing activity, which is characterized by instability, something which the mere adoption of the quota system alone does not guarantee, but the approval of this multiannual plan makes it inevitable that once again the limits imposed by an institutional framework which, wrongly, defines the management of living marine resources as an exclusive competence of the european union will be recognized. this has largely determined the persistence of a centralised fisheries management system which is inadequate to the interests of local fisheries, particularly small-scale fisheries, and which favours industrial fishing, together with a definition of management objectives which is not always soundly supported from a scientific point of view. the declared aims of regionalizing or even decentralizing the common fisheries policy have come to nothing, a reality that is inseparable from the deepening economic and social suffocation of fisheries and coastal communities.
i would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on these two reports. we are therefore discussing in this debate two documents on fishery products, the value chain, control and access to markets. all of these aspects are particularly relevant in the context of the outermost regions, such as the azores, where i come from. as such, the ops are widely considered in the articulation of both reports of this parliament. i would like to stress that it is crucial that the transport of fish from the ors to the national and international markets is properly supported in order to ensure fair competition with other fish products, whether fresh or processed. this is the only way to achieve convergence and fairer access to markets and to maintain cohesion in the value chain. i would again stress the possibility of creating a financial instrument that would provide specific support for the fisheries sector, for example by restoring the posei fisheries programme, with the capacity to effectively improve the potential of the outermost regions for sustainable commercial fishing.
the fisheries sector is of strategic importance for the public fish supply, for the balance of the food balance in several member states and for the development and well-being of coastal communities. the uncertainty of the income of fishermen, due to the way marketing is carried out in the sector, the way prices are formed at first sale and the irregular characteristics of the activity, implies, among other aspects, the need to maintain adequate public funding for the national and community sector. mechanisms are needed to improve the first selling price, so as to benefit fishermen by increasing the remuneration of their work and to promote a fair and adequate distribution of value added through the value chain of the sector, reducing intermediation margins, enhancing the prices paid to production and constraining the prices paid to final consumption. it is necessary to improve the stability of markets and to support the transformation and development of new products and marketing methods. these are the proposals and contributions which the report welcomes and which we would therefore like to highlight and value here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report opens a new round of debate and negotiation on the cap. we need a fairer policy, one which responds to challenges such as climate change, but above all we need an agricultural policy which persists in its common strand and which effectively meets the needs of farmers, because there is no agriculture and no rural world without farmers. member states should continue to have a margin of manoeuvre in the first pillar of the cap to grant support linked to sectors of particular social, economic and environmental relevance. it is essential to continue adjusting national direct payment allocations towards greater convergence between member states. i call for a robust european budget for european agriculture to be maintained, with no national co-financing in the first pillar of the cap. finally, i would like to see the special situation of the outermost regions taken into account in the process of reforming the cap.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this report is important and timely. we must remember that in europe there is one farmer under 35 for every nine over 55. in some countries, such as portugal, spain, italy, the united kingdom and bulgaria, the proportion of young farmers is very low, only one farmer in 20 over 55. the problem is obviously the maintenance of our food self-sufficiency, and the problems are mainly the establishment of farmers, access to land, the transfer of holdings from the oldest to the youngest and access to credit. finally, as amendments we have tabled, there are a number of suggestions which make sense to us, such as the creation of a programme similar to erasmus, combined with vocational training to improve skills and the exchange of experience among young farmers, support for young people who want innovative production techniques and processes. finally, no one questions the strategic nature of agriculture, but there is a serious abandonment of land and young people in rural areas must be given the same conditions as young people in urban areas. i would like to ask, in conclusion, whether it is understandable that, for example, in my country, farmers receive less money for the sale of their products today than in 1986, when portugal joined the european union. certainly, when that is the case, farming is not attractive.
mr president, generational renewal and knowledge transfer are fundamental to agriculture, because in this way we can bring in new people, new practices, new technologies and better ways of producing agricultural products at lower costs, with less risk to the environment, to human health and in a sustainable way. however, this renewal does not mean taking away from one to put on to another, but rather to integrate the new knowledge into the age-old practices of our most experienced farmers who have contributed a great deal to the public good of agriculture. we must not forget that in many cases young people are already working on family farms but unfortunately they are rarely able to have their own farm because of the money involved in setting up new farmers. i therefore believe that young farmers should receive increased support whenever they take over the responsibility for family farms, so that they can continue to do so, especially since young people have greater difficulties in accessing capital. it is therefore essential that the european union should allow a dignified withdrawal of the more experienced sector with clear support, thus making room for the younger ones.
mr president, commissioner, agriculture in europe, like any other economic activity, needs young people, as has been said here, who can provide the necessary generational renewal to keep the sector going with greater dynamism and openness to innovative solutions. in addition to the socioeconomic trends that may account for the ageing of europe's fields, access to land, vocational vocation, access to insurance and credit are factors that determine the integration of young people into agriculture. it is essential to provide member states with appropriate instruments under the cap to promote the rejuvenation of the agricultural sector through specific measures under the first and second pillars. it is also important, and this should be emphasized, that national policies can reinforce these mechanisms with policies facilitating access to credit, leasing, land inheritance and tax incentives with the aim of attracting young people and re-skilling the rural fabric.
mr president, the commission is pursuing its strategy of gilding the pill of the policies it proposes. adjectives are a bit overkill, but practice doesn't go with your speech. instruments such as the 'connecting europe' mechanism or the so-called trans-european transport network have served as a drain on public money for the private sector or have fuelled the disastrous public-private partnerships, political strategies that have promoted the privatisation of public service provision, the disinvestment in equipment and infrastructure, the degradation and the increase in the cost of the service provided to the population, the precariousness of labour relations. the commissioner spoke of a financial package which would allow decisive responses to be made to the development of the sector. these are false promises when we know the budgetary machete that the commission is preparing for the next mff, particularly in relation to cohesion, which we have known for a long time has never been the real objective of the european union. the increase in funds for cohesion free of conditionalities is required, allowing countries like portugal strong public investments in the sector, policies and public responses that serve the needs of the populations and the development of the country.
mr president, in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, competitiveness is the first and foremost criterion for determining the appropriateness and content of european union legislation. nothing new, just the assumption of a long-held principle, now stripped of any social or environmental rhetoric. it is not the interests of smes that are being defended, but those of big capital, of the big economic groups, of the major european powers. as expected, impact assessments have been and are subverted and undervalued. the democratic nature of the legislative and decision-making process is being further limited, which has opened the door to a greater concentration of power in the european commission and to the limitation of the capacity of legislators, especially members of parliament, to intervene. the perverse amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament limit the ability of members to speak. the transparency of the legislative process has also been duly reduced. it is in the shadows that the powers that be assert themselves and it is for them that this agreement is needed, it is for them that we want to legislate better.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european institutions cannot adopt a budget for the future which we will cut in cohesion and convergence. this is just unacceptable, and we need to take into account the situation we have. of course we need to address the challenges, but we need absolutely to keep a budget which reduces social inequalities and keeps the opportunity to invest in the future. this should happen for the european union as a whole, but also for the eurozone. and let me make a special call on the european commission, which is adopting in two days, finally, something to equip the eurozone with fiscal capacity. you need to be bold, because the eurozone has been suffering with deep divergences for many years. look to the situation we now have in italy. we are on the brink of a disaster – an economic, social, political disaster. some call for leaving the eurozone in order to leave austerity. they are wrong. others are calling to accept to stay in the eurozone, as it deals with austerity. they are also wrong. the solution we need to have is to reform the eurozone to make it a space where people can invest in the future and have again confidence in the future, and we social democrats have a full plan for this, and will be criticising all those who are opposing this necessary reform. so the commission has this opportunity. we need to have a fiscal capacity able to support investment in the future, to support upward economic and social convergence and to protect people from shocks. this is the moment to send this message, because we cannot play with fire.
blue-card question. – i am afraid that you are representing the wrong choice for italy, because you are suggesting that in the end, italy should follow the brexit example. we really believe that it is possible to change the eurozone for the better. so what are your plans for this?
mr president, commissioner, the european parliament wants a europe that is cohesive in terms of its territory and its social fabric, a united europe, a competitive, secure and united european union. and that word has to be translated into concrete action. we cannot say that cohesion policy is working well and has increased gross domestic product in a number of countries, and even helps all the other member states, and then we will cut this cohesion policy and, more seriously, we will cut those who need it most, we will cut the poorest. i think that the 45% cut in the cohesion fund, which is intended for member states with less than 90% of gross national income per capita, is unacceptable. what is working well must continue, the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and, in particular, rural development. a 25% cut is also incomprehensible. no one will be able to explain to voters, for example, that the poorest member states will have higher cuts than the richest member states. we need solidarity to be a de facto solidarity. the added value of the budget is well established: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
this proposal for a multiannual financial framework takes as strategic elements the guidelines which underlie the unequal, unfair and asymmetrical development between the different countries in the european union. the guidelines which, instead of the promised convergence, have only brought divergence. time and history have shown that the european union funds have never compensated (nor could compensate) for the destruction of the productive systems of the periphery, the loss of sovereignty, the asymmetrical impact of the single market, the euro and common policies. nevertheless, what the european commission is now proposing is to cut off the instruments that are supposedly intended to mitigate the divergence. cutting back on cohesion policy. even if it were left as it is, it would not be enough, as you can see. cutting national envelopes in countries with the greatest difficulties. cutting back on agriculture and fisheries. but military spending is increasing. increase funding for the repressive and security apparatus. the appropriations for programmes which benefit the major powers in particular are being increased. everything is tailored to their interests, and it shows the true nature of the european union. this is unacceptable.
in writing. the proposal submitted by the european commission (ec) on 2 may 2018 for the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework falls far short of the realistic and measured ambition expressed in the resolution adopted by the european parliament on 17 march. the resolution under discussion today is a strong warning from the direct representatives of the european citizens to the institutions. in the political context in which the european union (eu) is living, with positive economic indicators and worrying political signals, it is crucial that the multiannual financial framework reflects a mobilizing and proximity vision capable of fostering convergence, strengthening cohesion and increasing competitiveness on global markets. the lack of consistency in the presentation of some of the priorities and financial allocations in the ec proposal also seriously damages the credibility of the exercise. the commission proposal can be the embryo of a new stage in the consolidation of the european project, but this must be achieved by ensuring the robustness of the approach, the safeguarding of european values and the appropriate financial allocation. it's still possible to get to good port, but we need to correct trajectories and options. i hope that this debate and the resolution that will come out of it will contribute to that.
madam president, the revision of the posting of workers directive, which is being hailed as a major social flag, is, on the contrary, a clear demonstration of how the promotion of labour and social rights is not one of the priorities of the commission, nor of the majority of the european parliament. we reject the negotiated view between the council and parliament which in practice allows for an endless period of secondment to suit the needs of the employer. let us be clear: those who have been working in another country for two years or more are not posted, they are emigrants. the proposal takes responsibility for enforcing labour rights away from companies. the failure to apply explicitly the principle of equal pay for equal work means that the principle of equal pay is not guaranteed, and it opens the door explicitly to the use of temporary work undertakings which, as we know, subsist on the basis of low wages and poor working conditions, that is, they seek to maintain and secure a mobile army of cheap labour from countries such as portugal, which feed the profits of the large european transnational companies.
mr president, in portugal only 2.5% of farmers are under 35 years old, whereas more than 50% of our farmers are over 65. this is the result of the common agricultural policy which has led to the abandonment of thousands and thousands of farmers in portugal, worsening our agri-food deficit. we are naturally in favour of greater support for young farmers, but, let us stop being hypocritical, this debate cannot be dissociated from the cap, because we have a cap which pays for not producing, which has completely liberalised agriculture, opening up world competition and crushing farmers' incomes. so if we want young people in agriculture, then we must create a new cap, based on the defence of small and mediumsized farming and with public instruments for regulating production, which effectively allows young farmers to live off their activity and not on the alms of the european union.
madam president, israel is committing crimes against humanity by murdering men, women and children who are desperately protesting against the continued vegetation in the oppression of the world's largest prison, gaza. israel helped create hamas to legitimize fatah and today is reaping the bitter rewards not only in the 30 rockets that have been fired at its cities, but in blocking the two-state solution. a blockade that effectively threatens israel's existence. israel has delegitimized itself by violating the geneva conventions, the un resolutions, and by denying the conditions for a viable palestinian state. and the european union is working against itself, against its security, disrespecting itself when it resorts to humanitarian palliatives and soft words in the face of everything that stirs up conflict in the middle east, such as the transfer of the american embassy to jerusalem, and abstains from acting to stop israel from jeopardizing regional and global peace and security.
mr president, a government, even if democratically elected, loses all legitimacy when it comes into conflict with the rule of law. unfortunately, this is what has been happening in nicaragua, and it is not just now. a clear suppression of fundamental freedoms, an unacceptable concentration of all powers, a tendency towards corrupt practices. that is to say, the present government of nicaragua deserves and must deserve, from the outset, a profound and clear condemnation from the european parliament. secondly, of course, we must call for dialogue. the door is not closed to dialogue between the various parties involved in this confrontation, under the mediation of the catholic church, and in this context we must not only appeal to this dialogue but also express our readiness to participate in it, if it proves useful, with a view to restoring the conditions for nicaragua to live a liberal democracy in all its fullness.
madam president, the catastrophe in libya has no end in sight as long as the european union persists in a policy of deception, financing alleged libyan coastguards, who are nothing more than armed militias, the same ones who traffic and torture migrants and oppress the population. there are no coastguards, no security forces under the control of a non-ruling government or a criminal like haftar. european security and defence and the alleviation of the suffering of the libyan people require that we invest in what we have neglected so far: security sector reform, which implies the demobilization and disarmament of the militias. without this, there will be no governance, no transition strategy that leads to elections in libya, and we will not stop daesh and al-qaeda terrorists or the madkhali salafists increasingly entrenched in libya. it is essential to open up controlled, safe, legal channels of migration so that we do not continue to feed the business of the trafficking mafias. the un, unhcr and aom must step up their intervention in libya, with the support of military forces which must integrate european and african contributions.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen, in 1990, in a small town in luxembourg that would go down in history, the convention implementing the schengen agreement was signed. the president of the european parliament, pieter dankert, asked at the time who 40 years ago could have imagined that france, germany, almost reunited, and the benelux would sign an agreement here in schengen. let me adapt these historical words to the present day. who would have imagined, 20 years ago, that the area of free movement would include 26 countries, 400 million people and 50,000 km of external borders? who would have thought that the european parliament would be debating its report on the state of schengen for the first time today? in 1990, pieter dankert answered your question with a resolution 'we have succeeded'. today, however, we know that schengen is never completed or guaranteed. the full accession of bulgaria and romania remains to be achieved. it is unacceptable that seven years after fulfilling all the conditions for freedom of movement, bulgarians and romanians are still treated by the council as second-class citizens. i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will reaffirm once again that bulgaria and romania should be full members of schengen. ladies and gentlemen, schengen is never really finished or guaranteed, and 33 years after the signing of the schengen agreement we are faced with new dangers and challenges. the last three years have been dramatic. a seemingly new normal has emerged. internal border controls have become part of the daily lives of millions of europeans once again. national governments, along with the most populist fringes of our political spectrum, have made schengen the scapegoat for the failures of security policies and the fragility of the common european asylum system. you put schengen in a coma, carrying evils that aren't his own. to spy on blame and win elections, member states are lightly using the schengen atomic bomb and doing so illegally. the maximum period agreed by the member states themselves has been largely exceeded and the vague and reluctant reasons given are not reflected in reality. if schengen were to disappear, the economic impact could reach eur 50 billion, but above all, the greatest expression of the europe of the citizens would disappear. mr president, the schengen information system is the largest european system for combating crime and controlling our borders. however, some member states continue to fail to comply with the rules on their use. the united kingdom is not alone in this. the commission has already, after the adoption of this report, informed the schengen working party, which i chair, of the serious problems in the use of the sis by the united kingdom. the accession of this state is provisional because it is not a schengen member and is therefore independent of its exit procedure. this is not the first evaluation with serious results. however, it is particularly worrying at the moment because the united kingdom is in the process of leaving but wants to maintain a relationship with the union also in the field of security. here too the council and the commission should work with parliament to find a solution. the commission cannot be afraid to use all the instruments at its disposal and can count on the support of this parliament. with this report we are taking a significant step forward in the exercise of democratic control in schengen, we are increasing transparency and thereby a more serious discussion and, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of combating terrorism is not solved by more borders, it is solved by more cooperation. if national governments do not have the courage to save schengen, let us have the courage to save the freedom of european citizens.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, and i support everything he has said here, including the use of sis by the united kingdom and the inclusion of romania and bulgaria. in this report we show that the main problems in the functioning of the schengen system are the result of political tacitness, selfishness and lack of solidarity between member states in responding to transnational security challenges, in particular terrorism, which demand more europe and more europe passes through schengen. the european commission, mr avramopoulos, cannot continue to whistle in the wind and ignore schengen violations which undermine the integrity of the system and threaten collective security. from the gold visas in which several member states, including my own country, portugal, are competing viciously, to the case of malta, where there is alarming evidence of organized schemes to sell schengen visas en masse to libyans and algerians, not to mention the shame of the illegal dirty deal made by the european union with turkey. when will the european union comply with schengen and no longer let the trafficking mafias manage the migration flows, as the un secretary-general antónio guterres has denounced? when will the council unblock the revision of the common european asylum system and open legal, controlled, safe channels so that asylum seekers and refugees do not have to put their lives at the mercy of the traffickers that the lack of european management is in fact feeding?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to conclude by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs who helped to draft this report and all those who have worked in the schengen working group over the years. secondly, i would like to remind you that what we have to protect is freedom of movement and that internal borders and internal border controls are a thing of the past. destroying schengen is to destroy the europe of the citizens. we all have an obligation to save schengen and i think it will become clear tomorrow that there is a clear majority in this house to defend this heritage. commissioner avramopoulos, we all have a responsibility, but so does the commission. it must exercise its powers and do not doubt the support of this parliament in this respect, because it is difficult to make the council understand what is at stake. the council's absence from this debate was very sensitive today. we have not been able to hear your views and we have not been able to convey our messages to you, but as i said, well, the council is essential because there are responsibilities of the member states themselves not only with regard to borders but with regard to the mess we are all in. we all have the same obligation, commissioner, parliament and council: the obligation to give schengen back to the citizens of europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr prime minister, welcome. i am portuguese and i could tell you a happy story, that of the relations between our two peoples, but i am here to speak on behalf of the socialist and democratic group. i would like to say, first of all, that your commitment and luxembourg's commitment to the european project are highly appreciated. you have just demonstrated this again in a very clear way. luxembourg is not only at the crossroads of europe, it is also the cornerstone of european integration. this vocation is known, respected and highly valued. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the state of europe and its future. it is true that we have had a difficult time, a period of crisis, and that today we have a more positive feeling. but what is happening in italy today shows the fragility of our situation and that europe as it functions today is seriously flawed. this is the situation facing italy, with no hope for the future, with a feeling of suffocation, because we have not been able to manage the migration crisis together and because we have not really overcome the eurozone crisis. this has resulted in an explosive combination, with regions under great migratory pressure and, at the same time, a very high rise in unemployment. italy is therefore faced with a very difficult choice: to accept europe as it is, with its shortcomings, or to take a step towards the precipice, in other words to leave the euro area, or even the european union. but we cannot put a country in front of an impossible choice. the only way out of this impasse is to make europe work much better for its citizens. that's the stakes. mr prime minister, there will soon be a decisive european council. everybody knows that. the reform of european migration policy and the response to the eurozone crisis will be on the table. so the first question i ask you is whether we can count on you to be up to the task. because in two days' time the european commission will present a proposal to complete the economic and monetary union on the budgetary pillar. it is good to make progress on the pillar of banking union, but it is not enough, because we must provide economic and monetary union with a real budgetary pillar that supports investment, that supports economic and social convergence. we cannot continue in a situation where, on the one hand, some members of the euro area have no real chance of investing in the future and, on the other, europe as a whole has a problem of under-investment in the future. so my question is: can we count on you to move forward on this matter, knowing that we must not only create an embryo of budgetary capacity, but also play with the financial lever of the european stability mechanism, which was to be placed in a community framework? that's our preference. i have another question. while europe is facing a situation of under-investment, it needs an ambitious investment strategy driven by the sustainable development goals and a commitment to the social pillar. but this requires a community budget to match. but we may not have it, because of lack of resources. so here is my last question: as far as resources are concerned, is it not time to take a step towards own resources which should include not only the commission's proposals but, in our view, a real tax on digital technology? we need to move forward on this. we cannot accept that our internal market is used by large companies without any tax liability. we therefore expect you, mr prime minister, to take a bold step, because without a better functioning europe, the italian case is likely to be a disaster. that is our concern.
mr president, mr prime minister, we are separated by your country's fiscal policy: you can say it's not a tax haven, but it actually attracts multinational corporations that take resources from many countries to balance their public accounts, to invest in their public services, and so it's a matter of tax justice. it is not fair that raphael halet and antoine deltour should be pursued by justice. you've done a great job defending freedom of the press here. you must also defend those who risk their lives for the common good. it brings us closer to your view on migration. your country is the biggest host of migrants in the european union. the largest of these communities is in my country, portugal. in recent years they have faced many difficulties, particularly in access to education and the issue of the portuguese language in schools. your government has sought a solution to this problem. i ask you to keep that commitment. you know how important the portuguese community is to the luxembourg economy.
mr president, foreign direct investment in your country is worth trillions, much more than what the rest of the world’s governments together state that their citizens own in luxembourg. in luxembourg, cash is king. over the years, eur 500 bills were printed as much as in belgium, ireland, netherlands and spain combined, until printing was stopped this year, but the bills are still circulating. so, don’t you worry that your country is seen – and it may be working – as a world centre for money laundering and tax evasion, namely for tax dodgers from other eu member states? will you then stop the race to the bottom in taxation, will you stop blocking tax harmonisation in the eu and will you support ccctb? why is your government delaying the vat reform proposed by the commission to stop carousel fraud, which shifts eur 50 billion per year into organised crime, including terrorist groups? why do you continue to obstruct media in your country from finding out what is going on in freeport luxembourg?
mr president, i would like to congratulate prime minister bettel and luxembourg for this very constructive approach. i am sorry to disappoint you, but transnational lists are not the solution for integration. i am a federalist and i can tell you that there is no federation where there is a global constituency, so this would be something against federalism, instead of the contrary. i saw with some optimism that you defended tax harmonisation and tax convergence here. i would like to ask you if the luxembourg government is prepared to take a major step on this issue because luxembourg, together with two or four more member states, is a country that is really responsible for blocking and paralysing any tax convergence. let me tell you that tax convergence and tax harmonisation are much more important for european integration than transnational lists.
i shall be very brief, mr president. in this report we propose to mobilise eur 104 million for portugal, spain, france and greece to deal with the damage caused by natural disasters, but in this report we also ask the member states to do everything possible, to use all the means and funds at their disposal to act in the direction of prevention. prevention is the best solution. in my country, in 2017, more than 100 people lost their lives in fires. this situation cannot happen again and we must all work together to ensure that it does not happen again. in this resolution too we ask that the member states which receive these amounts from the solidarity fund, which are a proof of solidarity, use them in a fair, transparent and qualitative way.
i would just like to point out that a substantial part of the amendments to the report are not translated, so that a significant part of this house is in practice unable to express a conscientious opinion on its substance. i would like to point out once again this protest which follows naturally, i say, from the cutbacks in translation services and which reveals the need to maintain this fundamental principle of the translation of all documents if democracy is to function effectively in this chamber.
mr president, quickly, just to say that my voting mechanism doesn't work very often and so i was asking if someone could come here.
mr president, this report is another attempt to square the circle. it defends important things that we have pointed out, such as being against the nationalisation of the cap's costs, maintaining its budget, strengthening posei, defending small and mediumsized farmers. now, let us be serious, without calling into question the foundations of the cap, this is more of an exercise in hypocrisy, because it is this model of the cap, with its liberal orientation, that supports this model of intensive production geared to exports, to agribusiness, and it is this model that crushes farmers' prices and incomes. what we want is a break with this cap, with public instruments for regulating supply and allowing the defence of each country's food sovereignty and, in turn, guaranteeing fair and decent incomes to those who produce, our farmers.
mr president, the economic activity of the outermost regions is heavily dependent on agriculture. for this reason, the european parliament's position on the future of the cap, which we are voting on today, calls for the safeguarding of the posei budget and its regulatory provisions. the recognition that the outermost regions deserve differential treatment also with regard to the operation of the milk market should be emphasized, and the commission is asked to take into account indicators adapted to the reality of the outermost regions for monitoring milk prices and defining the crisis in the sector. in conclusion, i am in favour of greater external convergence of direct payments between member states in the first pillar of the cap, the logic of which should exclude the amounts they receive under the second pillar, and i voted in favour of this.
mr president, we already knew the general direction of this multiannual financial framework: less cohesion, less agricultural policy and more security and defence. the european commission confirmed this approach yesterday by announcing a 7% cut in structural funds for portugal and the maintenance of macroeconomic conditionality. we cannot accept that the application of the structural funds should be linked to the european semester and the country-specific recommendations, because this limits the capacity of the national states to decide on their own development model. this proposal from the european commission not only cuts into the structural funds but also creates new blackmail mechanisms to impose its neoliberal agenda on the national states. every day that passes it becomes absolutely clearer that neither this european commission nor this framework will be the ones to promote the social and territorial cohesion that they so much preach.
mr president, residence permits are temporary, at least in my country, and they can be a good thing or a bad thing. it depends on your control and what happens in one country is not necessarily replicable in all the others. in my case, my country is required to transfer capital of at least one million euros, create at least ten jobs and buy property worth at least 500,000 euros. since 2012, it has involved a revenue for portugal of eur 3,5 billion and investments of more than eur 84 million. obviously, a security check is required, a check on each application and, in the case of each conviction, expulsion and revocation of the benefit. but if the regime is enforced, it is not necessarily bad in the eyes of the law as long as the violator is ruthlessly condemned and tried.
mr president, security concerns dominate the management of the european union's borders, but only as regards migrants and refugees, the most vulnerable people in the world. for the rich and powerful, criminals and corrupt, several member states, including my own, have shamefully opened safe channels for access to residence and citizenship in the european union through gold visas and the direct sale of nationality. over the past five years, i have been warning national and european authorities that these schemes encourage the abuse of corrupt political officials and all kinds of intermediaries, as the trial in portugal of a minister and other senior state officials demonstrates. they are a threat to the organization, the integrity of the financial system and the security of our citizens, they attract kleptocrats, criminal organizations that seek refuge in the european union to launder money. as our inquiry into the panama papers demonstrated, due diligence about big applicants is perfunctory. banks even offer credits to obfuscate the origin of the money transfers involved. these schemes also exacerbate the gulf between the "haves" and the "have nots". transnational networks that market such schemes to russian, chinese and other rich people that they designate as global citizens, such as henley and partners, the arton group that hires mr. duran barroso for promotional events, the big 4, and so on, need to be scrutinized in their activities, profits, processes and contracts binding eu governments, that even compel prime ministers to go on roadshows selling european citizenship, as does the prime minister of malta. this race to the bottom has to end. the commission and the council must act.
mr president, i would like to say that in this debate we must distinguish clearly between what constitutes a residence permit and what constitutes the grant of nationality. it is also essential that the residence permit itself be subject to strict criteria, particularly in terms of criminal records and, of course, the background of the applicants. i have done that, and i have also informed the european union. but we cannot go on from there to the conclusion that everything that is the granting of a residence permit and even, in certain cases, of nationality, subject to the common requirements and assumptions, is something that cannot be done by the states. it is interesting to note that many states that are doing nothing to take in refugees are here invoking refugees to oppose these programs. this is the case in the netherlands, mrs int veld, where 20 of the largest portuguese companies are registered, and then the portuguese state does not want to have programmes to attract investment, when all the investment is going to the netherlands, which is preaching austerity to us. if there were also tax harmonization, perhaps there would be no need for this kind of differentiation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, commissioner, first of all, congratulations on the commission's proposal which meets our expectations. as we all know, portugal experienced a tragedy in 2017 due to the fires that occurred. more than 100 lives were lost, a tragedy that must not be repeated. if this mechanism were in place, we could have saved these lives, and that's our obligation, to save human lives. i therefore welcome this proposal, this new mechanism, and i also want to tell you that i will see what solidarity the member states will show when we discuss budgetary matters. for 2019 and 2020, we need 280 million euros. new priorities also require new financial resources, and that is why parliament is calling for the additional eur 280 million to be earmarked for them and not for cuts in other policies. this is our defence and we also count on the support of the commission in this respect. this mechanism must not forget prevention and is obviously complementary to, and not replacing, the member states. i would like to end by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their work.
we are in favour of cooperation between states in responding to disasters, especially large ones. this cooperation may involve coordination of efforts, a loan or even the sharing of resources, but we must not forget some important aspects. the protection of people, infrastructure, property, the protection of the territory and of nature is an obligation of the states, a function which lies at the heart of their sovereignty. to be properly exercised, it requires robust own resources appropriate to the risks involved. civil protection services, by their very nature, require a strong connection to the territory and require a deep knowledge of the territory and the people. this also has implications for the chains of command, which even in situations of cooperation or aid must remain at the national level. the european union, which has not done all it could, for example in the field of supporting the member states in developing their own capacities, starting with prevention, now wants to do more than it should. the usurpation of chains of command for a supranational plan, for example, raises no small risks beyond a well-founded political objection.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and also the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for the excellent work she has done, because this is what is actually being proposed for a civil protection mechanism with enhanced operational capacity and with specific references to the support given to the outermost regions in the event of natural disasters. it is crucial that this support is translated into a link between this mechanism, the structural funds and the solidarity fund. the commissioner here and some of my colleagues have said that the member states must in fact have control and responsibility for their territories. cooperation and solidarity must also begin within the territory itself, and it is therefore regrettable that the portuguese socialist government committed itself in november 2016 to reinforcing the cohesion fund for the recovery of madeira by eur 30 million after the fires in august, and that, to date, this reinforcement, this support, this solidarity have not yet been poured out and have not been more than empty words. prevention, risk management, the implementation of warning systems and the replacement of firefighting equipment may be at risk and therefore this solidarity must be poured out and must also have the support of the union.
mr president, the changes to the civil protection mechanism have created a precious reserve of material and human resources. it is good for european citizens and governments to realise that this mechanism will not replace the responsibilities of the member states themselves and that any intervention will always have to be pre-authorised. what does it change? investment in training and research, the creation of local intervention groups, the erasmus programme for civil protection, the strengthening of cooperation with third countries and a much more active role for the outermost regions. strengthening this mechanism means giving real meaning to the word solidarity in the most difficult times a member state can face. it also means increasing and giving greater protection to the citizens who are part of this union. there is nothing more important than the certainty that, in case of need, the duty to help will fall on all the members of this family, of this union. commissioner, i cannot but thank you for coming forward with this proposal at the right time. no one, no country, is immune to the unpredictability of a catastrophe.
mr president, i would naturally like to congratulate the commissioner and also to congratulate mrs gardini on the work they have been doing which has actually made it possible to create this first truly integrated system of civil protection. i must say that i have been advocating a european civil protection force for a long time and therefore i am not satisfied with the degree to which we have reached it. let us say that i think this is a very big step forward, given the situation we had before, but that we, the european union, must move towards an even more integrated and advanced system, with a real civil protection body for major disasters. so that means fires, floods, environmental accidents like nuclear or chemical accidents, earthquakes and other kinds of events. for that, i think we should look essentially at this point. no state, particularly small and medium-sized ones, has the resources to be able, on its own, to have all the means that are needed for large-scale disasters and so it is absolutely necessary that we have the capacity to share resources, because, as we know, it is very unlikely that a wave of disasters of this nature can be replicated at the same time on all sides and therefore this will allow savings for the european union, for european citizens, for european states and at the same time the advantages of having skills and knowledge and expertise in this area.
the 2018 report on turkey sets out the deep-rooted problems in the implementation of funds under the instrument for pre-accession assistance for the strengthening of civil society capacity and the promotion of social dialogue in turkey. it's not surprising. none of these objectives is in the interests of erdogan, who is too busy destroying democracy and the rule of law and violently repressing the kurdish minority, the opposition and anyone who dares to stand up to him. the commission and the council cannot allow themselves to be blackmailed by what they unfortunately say is ankara's good work on migration flows, as the report stresses, and they cannot turn a blind eye to afrin and the crushing of syrians and afghans by the turkish army on the border, allegedly through the use of cobra ii military vehicles financed by the european union. if this is confirmed, it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace to all of us. the commission and the council must respond to these very serious allegations. there are no conditions for continuing turkey's eu accession process, but the eu must, more than ever, continue to support the courageous turkish civil society. to do that, ipa or other support has to protect who it is supporting, but it also has to be scrutinized deeply. who is getting the money from european taxpayers today?
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the change in the institutional culture of the european union with regard to gender equality and the empowerment of women in its external relations is important, but it is also important that the commission commits itself to the preparation of a future communication on this subject. the report adopted in the committee on development and the committee on women includes important recommendations for the improvement of the second gender action plan with regard to sexual and reproductive rights as a condition for equality and empowerment of women, the possibility of resorting to abortion for victims of rape in conflict situations, the rights of lgbt people and the global gag rule, among others. we need to have concrete objectives and activities, linked to a strict timetable, as well as a qualitative evaluation of data demonstrating the real impact of the measures implemented in the beneficiary countries. otherwise, this gender action plan will be a mere tool for internal reporting. everything we are advocating here reaffirms the position of a decade of the european parliament. i therefore do not understand the epp's presentation of a minority resolution which eliminates many of these recommendations. the epp accuses the report of being too ideological in its action plan. but isn't conservatism in the plan of action also ideological? isn't that against equality? doesn't it become a tool against women's rights? doesn't it become another tool against lgbt rights? what is the epp's position on abortion in cases of rape? i do not think that all the epp members share this view, particularly because gender equality, as the epp rapporteur has rightly said, is one of the pillars on which this union is based. for us, standing up for equality and empowerment of women around the world is a matter of justice. tomorrow, our aim will be to maintain the text as approved in committee. i therefore ask members to vote against the minority proposal put forward by the european people's party.
madam president, the youth strategy cannot be reduced to a social welfare mechanism that is ineffective in combating precariousness. it is therefore necessary to demand more results. the first objective of this strategy must be the creation of effective employment for young people. this must be the main focus, fighting precariousness. the implementation of key european union programmes such as the youth employment initiative, the erasmus programmes or the european solidarity corps needs to be highlighted, while minimising asymmetries between european regions. we need more monitoring against abuse, where we have, for example, internships that are covering up employment contracts. we need european-wide whistleblowing mechanisms, with the collaboration of local authorities, to protect the anonymity of young people. more monitoring of the real effects of these programmes is needed. young people cannot be jumping from one internship to another without ever having an effective entry into the labour market. this strategy needs to include the most experienced workers, who play an important role in training young people in the workplace in a transition phase until their retirement, for effective generational renewal. commissioner, the objectives of this strategy are not in line with a 6% cut in the european social fund, as proposed by the commission. this situation will be even more acute in the case of the most disadvantaged member states and regions. we must fight this proposal.
the high rates of youth unemployment reflect a reality that cannot be dissociated from the eu policies that have promoted labour precariousness and deregulation, or the disinvestment in social services and benefits. the consequences of these policies are clearly seen in the increase in the number of young people who are now living in poverty and social exclusion. the responses created under this strategy, while palliative, could have a positive impact that is yet to be achieved. to make this possible, in addition to the necessary reinforcement of funds, skills and the scope of programmes, it would be imperative that they reject formulations of 'flexibility' which only translate the deregulation of working hours and work ties or any logic of creating unpaid traineeships, work in precarious conditions or the replacement of permanent jobs by temporary or traineeships. a youth policy geared to job creation and social inclusion is inseparable from the defence of employment with rights, based on collective bargaining, the rejection of any precarious link, the guarantee of fair and decent wages and regulated hours. but it is also inseparable from policies that promote free, universal and quality public services or public investment, which stimulate the economy and the productive and strategic sectors.
mr president, the response to citizens who are appealing to the european union in large numbers requires the utmost respect, which must be expressed in the quality of the response, which must be swift and cannot be evasive or out of step with regional, national and community political and administrative realities. we are dealing with citizens who trust the european union and who turn to us in the hope that we will solve their problems, even against the powers that be. commissioner, it is very serious that we receive numerous petitions from european citizens about precarious situations and the abuse of fixed-term employment contracts, in violation of a european directive, which is happening both in the private and public sectors. the numbers are frightening. in portugal, 82% of temporary workers are involuntarily employed, a situation which mainly affects young people, which, according to a commission assessment, shows a high degree of labour segregation which needs to be corrected. these are situations in which, contrary to their expectations, workers are forced to accept parttime, seasonal, open-ended or pseudo-independent work. as regards the abuse of successive fixed-term contracts, it is the governments of the member states themselves who are the first to violate the european directive, when they should be the first to set an example for the business sector. this is also the case in my country and in my region, especially in the teaching class. in the meantime, the commission ignores the pile of complaints and arranges bureaucratic subterfuge to delay or avoid responses that go against national governments. there is a duplicity of criteria which is unacceptable. if we are demanding from the private sector - and very well - mechanisms for protecting workers, we cannot, on the other hand, turn a blind eye to the action of national governments. commissioner, we must give quick, appropriate answers without fear of the powers that be, and we must defend a true social europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, in recent years there have been continuous closed-door trials and arbitrary arrests of iranian-european citizens in iran, not to mention the excessive number of executions. since 2015, the revolutionary guards have arrested 30 people with second passports, most of them for alleged espionage, and of these 30, 19 have the nationality of european countries, as you know. ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the ayatollah regime does not recognise the status of dual nationality places these citizens in a particularly vulnerable situation, since they do not even have the possibility of receiving consular assistance. furthermore, their lawyers and family members allege that the revolutionary guards are using them as a bargaining chip in international relations and as a way to discourage foreign investment in that country. commissioner, the european union, while trying to save the comprehensive plan of joint action of 2015 and neutralize the extraterritorial effects of the us sanctions, cannot but put pressure on the supposedly moderate president rouhani to fulfil his electoral promise of greater respect for the civil and political rights of his citizens, including those who are also european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, those who thought that the decree by prince mohammed bin salman allowing saudi women to drive from 24 june was further proof of a progressive turn in the wahhabi kingdom of saudi arabia have seen their illusions quickly shattered by the campaign of intimidation against prominent women's rights defenders. many were threatened with legal consequences if they made this decision, and several were even arrested. ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say in this house, clearly and unequivocally, that despite this decree, the situation of the rights of these activists in saudi arabia remains a real scandal. they remain, as women, subject to a patriarchal regime based on gender inequality, subject to a guardianship system that subjects them to the permission of a male family member to study, travel or pursue certain professions, and face an ultra-repressive context that silences any dissenting voice. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the women who dare to speak out publicly for human rights and their emancipation. i would conclude, mr president, by saying that the real reformers in the kingdom are these and not the orthodox and ultra-conservative saudis.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i cannot forget the devastating wave of fires that struck portugal and other countries in southern europe last year. it has been shown that civil protection based on a voluntary system of mutual assistance between member states alone is not enough to respond to the series of natural, environmental and man-made disasters we have seen in recent years. the 'rescue' system will further enhance the capacity for mutual assistance with a union reserve force to supplement the efforts of member states in need. we need to know the resources and coordinate actions, not only in the civil protection response to the most vulnerable, but also by focusing on prevention, bringing together the knowledge assets of each member state to face future situations. we must put an end to the avoidable deaths of european citizens once and for all.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on nicaragua, which i was one of the signatories, because i believe that this house must condemn in a clear and unequivocal way the violent repression suffered by thousands of nicaraguans who peacefully protested against the very serious deterioration of their living conditions after three consecutive ortega mandates, in violation of the constitutional principles of nicaragua. i believe that the european union must support all attempts at an inclusive and constructive national dialogue to put an end to the authoritarianism of the repressive sandinista regime and to the violence in that country. let us therefore follow the good example of colombia and make every effort to ensure that armed groups, electoral fraud, repression and censorship do not turn nicaragua into a second venezuela.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the future of the union must be secured through empowered european citizens and that this can only be achieved by promoting equal opportunities across the member states in terms of access to education, the labour market, social inclusion and the promotion of the values of solidarity and active citizenship of the youngest. if we want a europe united by values such as individual and social responsibility, tolerance, democracy, dialogue and sustainable growth, if we want a europe that can become a beacon of good practice and an example on a global scale, it is precisely in young people that we must invest.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the real solution for the situation we have is for the next european council to endorse the reform of the dublin system, as we in the european parliament endorsed it with a clear majority. this is the real solution. in the meantime, it is important to highlight that in the face of the conservative xenophobic behaviour of the italian government, we now have a bold position coming from a socialist government: the newly elected government in spain. that is why we, the s&d group, would like to have a debate on the council and commission statements on humanitarian emergencies in the mediterranean. this is exactly our purpose, and we would also like to add ‘solidarity in the european union’ in the title. we do not need a resolution, because good work is being undertaken in libya on how exactly to deal with this situation. (interjection from the floor: ‘that is exactly what i said.’) yes, you changed your minds at the right time. thank you again for joining something that we shall get a majority for in this parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in fact i have exactly the same argument, which is that european council will deal with this and, of course, will make the point. but there are many other points for the next european council, therefore we’d like to keep this proposal of a separate debate on this refugee case, along with the debate – a proper debate – in the european council tomorrow.
the complexity and scope of the regulation do not change, but the usual objectives remain: the establishment of a greater degree of harmonisation of common aviation rules at eu level, the deepening of the single european sky, the intensification of the liberalisation of the transport and air navigation sectors, with the consequent phenomena of concentration. liberalisation, which, in the name of financial profitability, has called into question labour rights, promoting the general precariousness of labour relations in the sector, but which has also opened the door to a deterioration in the quality of services and even in the safety levels of operation and maintenance. the european aviation safety agency is part of this strategy, a symbol of the assault on the strategic sovereignty of the peoples, with the transfer of powers from the states to the european union. what needs to be deepened and developed is cooperation between states through their national authorities, safeguarding the sovereignty of each country and respect for the rights of workers and service users.
mr president, global warming must be fought with clear and courageous decisions. the european union has set a binding and ambitious target of at least 40% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of the economy by 2030 and it is clear that the transport sector has a very important contribution to make to this target, and in particular heavy goods transport, given that a quarter of co2 emissions is due to this type of road transport. co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy duty vehicles entering the european union are not, as we all know, subject to certification, monitoring or reporting, as is already the case with light passenger and commercial vehicles. and so this proposal for a regulation is welcome, because it fills a gap. only with robust and reliable data can you make good legislation. i have been attacked for this as a shadow rapporteur in the group currently working on the trilogues for the negotiations on the energy union governance regulation. an integrated approach from all sectors to achieve the desired objectives. this proposal lays down precise requirements for monitoring and reporting emissions, which will allow the establishment of a very positive, transparent database managed by the european environment agency and the annual report of the european commission will also be important. this regulation is part of the european strategy for low-carbon mobility and is an important step towards the decarbonisation of transport, but we cannot lose sight of the fact, as has already been said here, that in the shortest possible time we must have clean and intelligent models of mobility and that these clean and intelligent models of mobility must also be applied to heavy duty vehicles. this is another area where, in the interests of the health, sustainability and competitiveness of european industry, the european union must take a leading role on a global scale. thank you very much.
mr president, our commitment in this report - and i congratulate my colleague on this - is to develop the thinking, the reflection and the scientific curiosity of our young people. it is a commitment to career guidance with the horizon of entering the world of work. it is an education that we advocate, which should be concerned with informing from the concrete reality of local life, of the country, but also of the international community. the modernisation of education in europe cannot be induced from outside. it is an inner process, which involves reflection and criticism. the real innovation in education is not just in terms of "more technology", but in being able to change pedagogical practices, and this is not done without teachers. they are the ones who can make education a tool for combating discrimination, particularly discrimination based on gender. education has paid the biggest price for the crisis. the continuous public financial support should therefore be increased. so i do not understand the cuts, the present cuts, in the european social fund. above all, we must ensure that education is free, public and free. modernizing education is getting rid of the factory model and the assembly lines that marked the school of the 19th century. we know that school is still, or can still be, the place where not only knowledge but class and gender positions are certified. equality is not, therefore, a minor theme in education, it is a matter of justice, it is a matter of democracy, it is a matter of freedom. if we assume that school can be a place of social reproduction, and it does, then we are in a position to pursue what unites us most: the equality of existence and of being who we are. the european union urgently needs to rethink education. this modernisation of european education will be all the more rapid the more we are able to reflect on the social function of the school and on democracy. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i am sorry that you do not know what skills are expected of young people in the european union in ten years' time. this is very well reflected, for example, in the objectives of the oecd and the union itself, and it is therefore not difficult, through vocational education, to imagine what the outlets for european young people will be on the labour market. as regards the question of equality, only those who do not understand education think that education for values, namely equality, cannot be conceived in the classroom.
mr president, mr commissioner, the modernisation of education is not a matter of mere intentions and theorizing. a modern school is not possible with the public disinvestment which you have imposed since the european semester and the structural reforms aimed at privatising and liquidating education and resulting in the dramatic degradation of the school stock. it is not possible to have a modern school where pedagogy is eclipsed by putting 30 pupils in each class in the name of rationalising financial resources. a modern school in contempt and disrespect for teachers is not possible without the tens of thousands who in portugal were fired during the troika that you imposed or by making 9 years, 4 months and 2 days of career disappear to meet economic goals. a modern school can only exist if it is based on free, quality public education, which guarantees equality and overcomes economic barriers, while respecting the professionals in the sector and their working conditions by promoting wages and reducing working hours.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate my colleague carlos iturgaiz on the consistent report he has produced and on the reflections he has put forward here. blue economy activities such as aquaculture are indeed a priority and their development should be strengthened, particularly in the outermost regions of the european union which are highly dependent on the sea and where most of the time they are not yet developed. in the azores, where i come from, with the support of the emff funds, aquaculture projects are being developed. these projects are involving fishermen and are intended to be a complementary activity to fishing, thus reducing the pressure on resources and finding alternatives for fishermen. the demand for proteins from the sea and the increase in agricultural production will have to take into account that the pressure on wild resources should not increase. aquaculture production cannot be sustained by blindly increasing the capture of wild resources such as small pelagic fish and krill, which serve as food for aquaculture production.
madam president, the development of aquaculture has considerable potential which has not yet been exploited. to do so sustainably requires strong support for scientific research and technological development, a requirement far removed from the everyday reality of state laboratories and other public institutions that are financially suffocated. reducing dependence on wild fish for the food of farmed species, improving the yield of the activity, increasing food conversion, cultivating native species, including freshwater species, algae and herbivorous species, along with reducing the environmental impacts of the activity, are lines to be pursued in the development of aquaculture. investment support is equally welcome and necessary. the development of aquaculture must be seen in a logic of complementarity with fisheries, which must safeguard small-scale, coastal and artisanal fisheries in particular and give priority to small and medium-sized enterprises. i am referring to complementarity, not substitution or alternative, or even competition, as some seem to erroneously suggest or point out.
madam president, first of all i would also like to congratulate our colleague, mrs norica nikolai, on her report. recreational fishing is an important activity throughout the european union, not only in terms of the number of people involved or the economic impact, but also in the context of resource management. the collection of data on creative fishing must be effective in order to assess the real impact of creative fishing. this is the only way to improve the scientific advice that supports multiannual plans and fisheries management in general. recreational fishing, as an activity of the blue economy, must be properly developed and closely monitored, particularly in the outermost regions such as the azores, where i come from. this activity has a significant social and economic impact in many ports and coastal areas, but there is room for improvement in its framework in places where there is a need to reorient fishermen to other activities. recreational fishing linked to tourism can be an excellent alternative and complementary, giving priority to traditional fishermen. the tourist fisheries sector must respect the tradition of small-scale fisheries.
madam president, recreational fishing, which is fishing for personal consumption or leisure, can take many forms and use many gear types, the most common being fishing by line, harpoon and catch, and there are also passive methods including nets, traps, nets and longlines. as it is becoming more widespread, it is necessary to know better the conditions under which this activity is carried out, to obtain more characterisation data, including on the number of fishermen and the most widely used gear, to assess the impact of the activity, the environmental impact on fisheries resources and the marine environment in general, the socio-economic impact in particular on small-scale, coastal and artisanal commercial fishing. it is also important to understand how far we are not dealing with situations of disguised commercial fishing. the protection of small-scale fisheries and their operators, the creation of conditions to ensure their viability and generational renewal must be a central concern and a priority.
madam president, commissioner, the european commission is determined to hand over the pensions of thousands of europeans, millions of europeans, to the american financial giant blackrock. in the language of the european bureaucracy, it says that the aim is to triple the internal market for pension funds to 2.1 billion euros. in translation, it is an attack on the public universal social security systems with the aim of dismantling them. we now find that senior european commission officials and even european commissioners, like vice president dombrovskis, have had compromising meetings with senior blackrock officials. these are the same people who, in the country-specific recommendations of the european semester, never tire of warning against the unsustainability of public social security and pension systems, and who defend and impose pension cuts, as they did in portugal. we can see why now. even the arguments used are crossed out from blackrock's argument. a company which has been very generous to former european politicians, to whom it gives credit for their good work. we demand more than explanations, we demand that they withdraw the proposal they have put forward. keep your hands off our pensions.
madam president, the european parliament is being very clear – the next european council can no longer delay key decisions and must make very clear choices. the world is changing, it is so clear, and it is also clear that we need a strong europe, a united europe, to protect people. the solution is certainly not closing the borders, but neither is the solution to keep open borders without protecting people. we need to have a europe which is open but protecting people. this is the case when we organise the european border. of course we need to ensure that we have a proper european asylum system to protect refugees who are looking for our help, but when we negotiate trade agreements we need to ensure we are open to the world but we need to protect our people and our standards. if we want a europe that protects, the next european council must push the negotiations on the european budget also for a budget which will be there to protect people. i am concerned, on behalf of my group, that the current proposal on the community budget does not ensure the proper level of economic and social vision of cohesion. this is too weak to ensure our unity. the same applies to the proposals to reform the eurozone, because we don’t have proposals to ensure strong investment to converge, to ensure that the social pillar is really applied everywhere. so this is missing, and we want to strengthen european unity on the internal front, with a united europe, for us to be able to cope with external challenges. this is the solution the next european council should adopt without any kind of hesitation.
madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, i would first like to express my regret at what is happening in the mediterranean sea. what we have witnessed is absolutely unacceptable. you have not heard me condemn italy or malta because i believe that countries - in particular greece, italy, malta, spain - have been very much neglected by the european union in dealing with the migration issue and therefore this is a collective responsibility of the 28. we cannot let human beings die in the mediterranean sea, we must solve this issue once and for all. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the fact that it is essential for the council to give a signal of progress in the reform of the euro area in order to consolidate the euro project, in particular by definitively moving forward with banking union and by moving forward with another set of reforms aimed essentially at having a budget for the euro area which will make it possible to make this currency a friendly currency for all the economies that are part of the single currency. i would also like to say that it is essential to be quite firm on the brexit issue and, in particular, on the irish border issue. this is a key point which will be developed this week, today, in the british parliament. finally, since the vice-president has touched on the subject, let me speak about the financial perspective. it is unacceptable that there is a cohesion and convergence policy in which a country like lithuania loses 23% of the funds and a country like finland receives 5, a country like italy gets 6 and a country like croatia loses 6. this is not convergence, this is not cohesion, this is the opposite of convergence and cohesion, this cannot be accepted.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is showing its true face. migrants sinking in the mediterranean, boats at risk with pregnant women and children, come up against the cold inhumanity of those who choose to criminalize the humanitarian organizations involved in search and rescue operations. there is a lack of resources for cohesion, for supporting investment in the countries which need it most, for supporting employment with rights and for combating inequalities and asymmetries, but as the next european council will show, there is no lack of resources for the european military-industrial complex, for repressing migration and migrants, for further boosting the profits of the multinationals of the major european powers, and for the so-called structural reforms. another way of saying it is the privatization of the social functions of the state. the announced reform of the euro is just another way of tightening the shackles that impede the sovereign development of the peoples. defeating the eu to save europe is a demand with increased timeliness.
the euro has been a destructive element in portugal's economy. since portugal joined the euro, its public debt has risen from 55% to 130% of gdp. real wages have fallen by 20%, 500,000 young people have had to leave the country to look for work abroad and the question we ask is why does the european union insist on maintaining and deepening the economic and monetary union with the european monetary fund and with this proposal for pseudo-budgetary capacity of the euro zone? the answer is simple: the euro has always been and is a key political instrument for imposing structural reforms on member states by forcing countries like portugal to privatise their public services and strategic companies. it is obvious to us that the euro has not lived up to its promises of development and has disappointed expectations, and it is obvious to us that portugal must free itself from the constraints of the euro, regain its monetary sovereignty in order to be able to choose its own model of development.
mr president, the commission has come with a proposal on fiscal capacity for the eurozone which we really want discussed at the next euro summit. finally, the eurozone, which is the only monetary zone without a budget, recognised that we do indeed need a budget in order to have a future in the eurozone. however, what should be the objectives of this budget? there should be not only stability, but also growth and upward economic and social convergence. from this viewpoint, we need to go beyond the commission’s proposals, because if we want to support convergence, we should be clearly in favour of reforms, growth, increasing the sustainability of our social welfare systems, and coupling reforms with investments. something is missing in this instrument. secondly, the instrument to support investment is necessary not only to protect against shocks, but also to make sure that member states undertaking deep rebalances of the budgets can maintain a decent level of social investment, which is not the case so far. we need to go beyond, because if we do not improve these proposals, and we have combined these with co-financing being reduced for structural funds, we can already predict that divergences will continue in the eurozone.
mr president, commissioner, the recent turbulence on the markets caused by the italian political crisis has shown once again that it would be a mistake, and a serious mistake, to postpone an ambitious reform of economic and monetary union. and we all know what that reform of the euro should be. a european monetary fund worthy of the name, a new budgetary capacity, a full banking union and more democratic economic governance with the strengthening of the european parliament and respect for national parliaments. the june summit is therefore the moment of truth. so what we want to know, commissioner dombrovskis, is whether we can count on the commission to be on the right side until the last minute in defending an ambitious reform of the euro, which does not continue to put off until tomorrow what must be done today.
in writing. the completion of economic and monetary union (emu) is a priority if the european union in general and the euro area in particular are to be able to successfully meet the new challenges posed by changes in global geopolitics and the resulting economic balances, while responding to the expectations and needs of european citizens. in the course of the work to be done, the role of the european parliament as the direct representative of the peoples of europe must be valued and strengthened. in particular, it is essential that progress in the realisation of emu contributes to the stabilisation of the euro area, the promotion of convergence, the strengthening of investment and the creation of quality employment. the completion of the banking union with a strong guarantee system is a step that must be taken immediately at the same time as the european stabilisation mechanism must evolve consistently towards a european stabilisation fund that will benefit all member states in an integrated way and strengthen the overall competitiveness of the euro area.
mr president, i just want to make an appeal. i think it's a disgrace to this institution, which is the home of democracy, to have interpreters working under hostage. they have been forced to work under conditions that are draconian, that do not respect their rights, and we are all working here as if nothing had happened, with interpreters on call behind us. we are defending democracy, the right to strike, and that is why i ask parliament to mediate this negotiation. we cannot do our job without interpreters and we cannot have interpreters working without rights.
i voted in favour of this dossier because i believe that in order to meet the targets of the paris agreement, all sectors of activity must make their contribution and the reality is that the heavy-duty vehicle market is taking a long time to adapt to the new reality, which requires greater efficiency in the sector in order to meet the reduction in co2 emissions. without regulation that is both ambitious and effective, we will never get there. member states and the business sector that understand the priority of climate change are calling for reductions of the order of 24% in co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. the sector needs measures that will compel the achievement of these objectives and that will be a clear sign that change is imminent. we need more transparency in the monitoring and verification of co2 emissions and i welcome european harmonisation through the vecto test system for greater comparability between vehicles, using real-time measurements and independent laboratories being able to verify the data. i hope this is a way to end the guilt that has been postponing the inevitable.
mr president, you have my support in your efforts to preserve the nuclear agreement with iran, which is the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime and thus absolutely strategic for the european union, for the security of the region and for the whole world. besides, the jcpoa can, with the lifting of sanctions, foster economic, social and people-to-people exchanges, thus enhancing political dialogue with iran and bringing to that dialogue questions like regional issues and human rights including in iran. we need this channel of dialogue; it can actually encourage iran to play a responsible role in the region, in contrast to the wahhabism fueling terrorism from neighboring saudi arabia and proxies. to counter those who want to destroy the jcpoa, i support the commission's proposal to reactivate the blocking regulation, making it possible to protect legitimate eu trade with iran, and to empower the european investment bank to finance trade with iran. we must refute trump's hypocrisy in opposing the verified jcpoa when he is trying to sell his unverified deal with the north korean dictator, and all those who try to pretend like israel and the saudis backing trump that iran is the only source of trouble in the middle east. no doubt, i condemn many of the iranian policies namely violating human rights in iran, and namely supporting the regime of assad in syria but iran is not the only troublemaker in the region. we should equally condemn all those who are fomenting trouble and fuelling conflicts, like the uae, which is now preparing an assault on the port of al hudaydah in yemen, which the un has warned could lead to catastrophic humanitarian consequences. the divergence with the trump administration over the jcpoa is actually part of a deeper problem in transatlantic relations: trade wars, withdrawal from the climate agreement, from the global migration compacts, brazen interference against our union in european countries, supporting populist far-right policies. this is a bigger problem, and we need... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, madam high representative, first of all let me congratulate you on your excellent work on this very difficult dossier as we all know. it is a fact, madam mogherini, that the joint comprehensive plan of action was a landmark instrument in multilateral diplomacy which, despite its imperfections, should be a cornerstone for a future solution of greater scope beyond 2025 which encompasses the iranian ariane ballistic missile programme and which covers a wider set of regional actors. president trump's inability to understand this innovative strategy, which was ratified by the security council, is a threat to nuclear non-proliferation and to the security of the middle east and europe. i agree with you, madam high representative, that at this particularly critical moment the union must continue to strive to maintain the agreement with iran by strengthening its monitoring and verification, but, madam high representative, let us not forget that while the ayatollahs' regime is calling for the non-application of the extraterritorial effects of the secondary us sanctions, it is also maintaining the repressive character of a regime which, despite promises of reform, continues to have a dismal record of human rights violations and is the world leader in executions per capita. mrs mogherini, i ask you not to forget these iranians who every day suffer brutally at the hands of such a brutal regime.
mr president, we condemn the decision of the us administration to denounce the nuclear agreement and to impose new sanctions on iran in defiance of the un charter and international law. a provocation embedded in its policy of confrontation, creating a risk of escalation of aggression by the united states and its allies in the middle east, in particular against iran or lebanon, following the wars of aggression in afghanistan, iraq, libya, syria and yemen. we stress the warmongering and systematic disregard for international law by israel and saudi arabia, your allies, both countries responsible for wars of aggression against the peoples of the middle east. the reactions of the european union and its major powers do not erase their responsibility and connivance with the united states' or nato's interference and aggression in the region, as recently in syria, or in those wars of aggression based on lies of war propaganda. the defence of peace in the middle east requires the end of wars of aggression and the defence of the principles of the united nations charter.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr charles tannock, on the quality of the work he has done. chile is now a very strong democracy, the most advanced country in latin america in many fields and a key partner for the european union. it is a country that is very open to the world in all its dimensions. a country with a very strong presence in all the regional alliances in which it is integrated and very open to the world at political, diplomatic, economic and commercial level, a supporter of multilateralism and therefore can and should be a very strong partner of a european union which itself must open itself more and more to the world and must increasingly strive to take an active part in the political, economic and commercial regulation of the world. the process of negotiations now under way to modernise the association agreement between the european union and chile is fortunately proceeding very well and we are therefore all confident that it will have a happy ending. it should serve as an example for other negotiations under way, in particular the one currently under way between the european union and mercosur with a view to concluding an association agreement between the two parties.
madam president, the respect for human rights in the world has suffered a crushing setback in the last year. unfortunately, they have also been fuelled by the contradictions, dysfunctions and perverse policies of the european union, which discredit us. in countries large and small where the union has influence, such as ethiopia or bahrain, because it has remained silent in the face of systematic abuses, including torture, arbitrary arrests, massacres. or like in sudan, or myanmar, because you've funded and cooperated with governments that live off of human rights violations. because it has allowed the conflicts in syria and elsewhere to escalate to the point where, in the case of syria, it has unwittingly financed military equipment for the erdogan regime, which cruelly persecutes kurds, journalists and any opponents inside and outside the country, the regime with which the european union has made an immoral deal on refugees. or in palestine, where the union is resigned to the israeli occupation, which not only makes the two-state solution unworkable but also represents the repression and humiliation of an entire people, whose hundreds of peaceful demonstrators have already been killed in gaza this year alone. in these and other cases, our credibility is at stake. how can we be credible in promoting human rights in the world if we also do not look within the european union?
mr president, commissioner, this report is a useful snapshot of the situation of human rights and democracy in the world. the progress made, but also the setbacks. we have seen, for example, an intensification of the repression of human rights defenders with an increase in the number of murders of these activists in several countries; we have also seen, with great concern, the increasing hostility of different governments towards civil society, through laws that hinder the activities of their organisations or even criminalize them on the basis of misinterpretations of the very concept of terrorism. the international context is demanding and the european institutions must live up to their responsibilities. the european union must become more active and reinforce its exemplary behaviour. for example, the european union must increase the level of its extraterritorial responsibilities when european companies or investors whose operations in third countries are not respectful of human rights are involved. the truth is that millions of people whose human rights are being violated in many parts of the world still often see the european union as a last hope for some support and some protection. our responsibility is to meet those people's expectations.
mr president, the european union must respond to the request from tbilisi, the government and the opposition, which are uniquely united, and implement the (unintelligible words) inspired by the magnitsky act. with targeted sanctions on the stooges who kidnap, detain and torture georgian citizens in south ossetia and abkhazia, areas illegally controlled by moscow, we can help bring justice to the victims of putin's imperialist strategy. the sanctions should include entry bans into the european union and asset freezes that these criminals hold in member states as a result of corruption and money laundering schemes, such as those exposed in the uk skripal case. we must have a european magnitsky act. it's been ten years since the russian occupation of georgia. we must go from words to deeds, not only to effectively support the territorial integrity of georgia, but to strategically combat the moscow regime which, just as it interferes in georgia and ukraine, interferes in the european union, encouraging and financing xenophobic racist and populist forces to destroy our union.
mr president, i will endorse what my colleagues from the ppe are saying. the view on the situation in georgia is clear. this is an occupation of georgian territory by the russian federation. we must not be indifferent to this, especially we members who are from former communist, socialist countries, we know what russia is and unfortunately russia continues to promote the political doctrine of close neighbourliness. in this situation, i think, madam high representative, that the european commission should be much more active in relation to georgia and we should offer more programmes and more economic support to this country. georgia is a key partner for the eu in this region. it is a country where democracy is relatively developing, a relative rule of law is being built, and we should be supporting this country much more.
mr. president, madam high representative, in august 2008, moscow tore up the post-cold war european security playbook by attacking the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia. a decade later, thousands of russian troops continue to occupy abkhazia and south ossetia, and survivors of that war continue to live in precarious conditions, suffer ethnic discrimination in their daily lives and face kidnapping and detention along the demarcation lines, while those responsible for war crimes go unpunished. madam high representative, the association agreement, the visa liberalisation regime and the macrofinancial assistance support reflect the recognition of georgia as a strategic partner of the european union in the region and reiterate our support for its sovereignty and territorial integrity, so we must continue to support all war efforts that allow a peaceful solution to the conflict, while remembering that expansionist imperialisms have no place in the 21st century. and i'll end by saying that in the late '70s, the fischer-zs were putting out the song "another warning, another warning". remember russia. "let's not today forget the real threat, remember russia.
in writing. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. one of the most current issues on the political agenda of security and defence, put on the agenda by the european union, consistent with and subordinate to nato's strategy and its war and aggression agenda. now they are seeking to legitimize and regulate yet another front in the war to complete the digital single market. it is, in fact, a question of increasing and extending the capacity for scrutiny, control and criminalisation in cyberspace, outside judicial scrutiny, under the pretext of alleged threats, but creating the capacity to intervene also in third countries, complementing the strategy of internal destabilisation already being pursued in several countries. the report is another contribution to strengthening the eu's military pillar, with more budget and capabilities for war. the europe we are defending is, on the contrary, a europe of peace and cooperation between sovereign states with equal rights, based on respect for and firm defence of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
madam president, in the 2014-2020 programming period, the circular economy was not recognised as a priority area of action in the european union. in the proposal for the next multiannual framework this objective has been included and i congratulate the commission on this decision. it is the recognition that inefficient use of resources leads to environmental, social and economic damage. in 2014, the european union produced 2.5 billion tonnes of waste. we need to reduce, recycle and reuse. it is therefore urgent to combat waste. if we want a more sustainable europe, the circular economy must be a commitment, not just in the long term, but as a permanent goal. the circular economy faces challenges that involve changing the entire production system and that need, in fact, the financial support of cohesion policy. we must therefore give local and regional authorities, small and mediumsized enterprises, investors, educational and research institutions adequate functional and financial autonomy, enabling them to prepare and implement the strategies they consider best for their regions, in particular community-based local development and integrated territorial investments. it is also essential to combine different funding sources, including research, and it is worth recalling the privileged use of the environmental fund, which, for example, will fully support the circular economy agenda of one of the outermost regions of europe, the autonomous region of madeira. in circular business, development and progress models are no longer based on profit alone, but on environmental protection. for this we must reinforce and rehabilitate the landfills, as has already been said, throughout the whole of europe. all direct and indirect investments in the circular economy are no longer an option, as the rapporteur says, they are a necessity for the good of our species and all life on this planet.
madam president, we realise that the reduction in the eu budget because of brexit involves cuts, but what we do not accept is that when cohesion exists to bring the poorest countries closer to the richest, some of the richest have an increase in cohesion funds and some of the poorest suffer cuts. the commission said at a press conference with commissioner katainen present that it intended to continue to direct resources to the regions most in need of recovery in relation to the rest of the european union and to ensure fair treatment for all. i must say that the statement is, to say the least, exotic. portugal has a gdp per head of 77% of the european union average, commissioner katainen's native finland has a gdp per head of 109% of the european union average, so it has a gdp above the european union average, finland will have increases of 5% and portugal will have cuts of 7%. worse, countries like luxembourg, with a gdp per capita of 258% of the eu average, or austria, the netherlands, belgium, sweden, or denmark, all above the eu average, do not suffer cuts, but portugal, until recently intervened by the troika, will suffer cuts of 7%. worse, countries like spain or italy, which are much richer than portugal, will see increases of 5% and 6%, but portugal will see 7% cuts in cohesion funds. i would like to conclude by saying, madam president, that the cuts which the commission wants to impose on portugal are absolutely unfair, inexplicable and, to the extent that i have mentioned, even arbitrary. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
mr president, the evidence and scale of violence against women has probably never been so much media projection and visibility. the istanbul convention is perhaps the most far-reaching of the various strategic instruments for combating violence. despite this, the trend of worsening violence against women shows no sign of reversing. it is no coincidence that the policies of austerity, economic and social disinvestment, attacks on rights - promoted with the blessing of the european union - and the consequent increase in inequalities, poverty, labour exploitation, other expressions of human violence, have been accompanied by higher levels of violence against women. it will perhaps be the greatest proof that it is impossible to dissociate violence from the socioeconomic model and the political choices that define it, and that diplomas, recommendations, laws are not enough to change reality. other policies are required. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. the trend of worsening violence against women does not seem to show signs of reversing. it is no coincidence that the policies of austerity, economic and social disinvestment, and attacks on rights, promoted with the blessing of the eu, and the consequent increase in inequalities, poverty, labour exploitation and other forms of human violence, have been accompanied by higher levels of violence against women. it will perhaps be the greatest proof that it is impossible to dissociate violence from the socioeconomic model and the political choices that define it. and that it's not enough to have degrees, recommendations, laws to change reality. other policies are needed! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
mr president, (inaudible as the microphone is not switched on) ... a more united europe in the current world, but unity should be based on all member states getting a sense of benefit from belonging to the european union. and something is unbalanced now, because some member states get a benefit from having a geographically-central position in europe, combined with good exchange rates regarding the euro launch, plus using tax rates which are low to attract more resources. this creates unbalanced conditions in which to invest and to create jobs. so we need to rebalance the situation, and the minimum we need to do is to have a european budget keeping a strong commitment with cohesion and to equip our monetary zone with a fiscal capacity. i really agree that we can no longer continue with the situation of a monetary zone – the only one in the world – that does not have a fiscal capacity. these are decisions for the next european council, so we count on you also to move in this direction.
(inaudible as the microphone is not switched on) …the eu ensures security and the rule of law when member states, including the one that you lead, function as laundromats to kleptocrats, oligarchs, the corrupt and criminals from around the world. according to europol, your country accounts for one fourth of actions reported as suspected instances of money laundering, mostly related to drug-trafficking. senhor presidente, a holanda é o principal paraíso fiscal para os evasores do meu país, portugal. a sua desculpa de que a fiscalidade é matéria de soberania nacional não serve para dar cobertura ao papel holandês na corrida para o fundo na fiscalidade na união europeia, que põe em causa a solidariedade, o mercado único, regras de concorrência, justiça, boa governação e a segurança de nós todos. qual é a sua posição sobre o ccctb? why delay the vat reform, and why delay an eu tax on digital platforms, financial transactions and polluting industries? why obstruct these ways to increase the eu’s own resources and favour economic convergence and political cohesion in the eurozone and in the european union?
mr president, dear prime minister, let me tell you very frankly: i was delighted to listen to the first part of your speech. you were in the line of the best dutch tradition of huig de groot, pleading for a geopolitical global role for the european union. but then you have to explain to us how this is compatible – this giant external european union – with an internal dwarf european union. because you don’t care about mff, about eurozone reform. you plead for more subsidiarity, so how do you make compatible a very, very weak internal european union with a giant in the global landscape? this is not sustainable. this is a major contradiction, mr rutte. and let me put a final question: do you really believe that one per cent of the budget, one per cent of gdp, is the fast track – the big way – for the big government of the european institutions? one per cent, mr rutte? please, be reasonable. i would say, like mr verhofstadt: come on, mr rutte.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur i shall not take up too much of your time, but i would also like to point out that this is the moment when parliament is taking a final decision on its future composition. i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation and, above all, for their express support for our report, because it is not every day that such a broad consensus can be reached on a sensitive issue in this parliament and in the council. and we have good reason to be pleased: a fairer representation of the states in this parliament, in compliance with the treaty of lisbon, a smaller parliament with 705 seats and with room for future enlargements, and also the guarantee that no state loses seats. this is a good day for european democracy and the european project.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i think it is very good because, unlike some other reports, it contains a whole series of concrete measures which can help in the fight to protect the environment and in the fight to restore the resources we use. the issue of plastics is a huge environmental problem today, and it's clear that no country can solve this problem on its own. this is precisely the competence that i think the eu should address, and the eu should be the world leader in this area of plastic recycling, the circular economy. so i'm glad that this report passed, and we should have a big debate going forward about what to do to protect the environment and how to deal with waste, plastic waste, which i think is a huge environmental burden today.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion because i believe that there is a clear urgency to promote the circular economy as one of the main measures to combat climate change. in addition, the waste of some can and should be used as raw material for others. there are many examples of this exploitation. in this spirit, i believe that we must give clear incentives to member states and regional and local authorities to invest in the bio-economy and in the reduction of waste through environmentally friendly solutions. i think this must be the path that european citizens and member states must take, in unison, towards well-being, ultimately towards a more sustainable planet and leaving our children a better world than the one we have been left.
mr president, we are talking about the fourth assistance programme for ukraine and the scale of the catastrophe that the european union and nato have caused in that country is quite clear. for geostrategic reasons the european union decided to sponsor an illegal coup d'état which destroyed historical, commercial and economic ties between ukraine and russia, completely disrupting that economy and creating a situation of total dependence on said foreign aid. but worse, this diplomatic adventure has objectively damaged very important sectors of our agriculture which are still paying the bill for the russian embargo. we are sensitive to the issue of corruption, but this does not erase the violations of democratic rights that occur every day in ukraine and, in particular, the intention of the government to outlaw the communist party of ukraine. we want peace and democracy to return to that country, but that means ending foreign interference and letting the people of ukraine decide their own future.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this resolution. i understand colleagues who say that money in ukraine is not always used efficiently. i understand that corruption is a big problem in ukraine. on the other hand, i am convinced that we must geopolitically support ukraine so that at least some functioning regime in this country works, because this is our geopolitical need, our interest in russia. on the other hand, the money we will provide in the future needs to be much better controlled and really used to support the development of ukrainian society, the ukrainian state. so that the money doesn't get lost in the pockets of the oligarchs. so there's a geopolitical interest in supporting this country, but on the other hand, we should find mechanisms to better control the money that we're lending.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, in addition to boosting economic stabilization and higher financing needs in this two-year period, this macrofinancial assistance constitutes a powerful incentive for the ukrainian administration to strengthen its institutional structure to combat the endemic problem of corruption within the framework of the venice commission recommendations and, above all, because this approval in this house strengthens relations as a strategic partner within the framework of the eastern partnership and reinforces our support for its european trajectory at a critical, politically fragile time and when attempts are being made to relaunch the peace process. i also believe that, in the face of russia's repeated and continuing territorial aggression against ukrainian sovereignty, this macrofinancial assistance will serve as a clear signal that the european union does not accept this kind of interference and aggression and that it supports the entire ukrainian people.
mr president, i would first of all like to say that it is unacceptable under any circumstances that we should have tragedies in the mediterranean or in any other region of access to europe. the european union as a whole must therefore be prepared to rescue the shipwrecked and to help those in need, which is absolutely necessary. then, second point. i am clearly critical of the way in which minister salvini has dealt with this matter, but no one will see me condemning italy, because there is no doubt that the european union has responsibilities in abandoning greece, italy, malta, to a lesser extent cyprus, spain, which are countries at the forefront of the humanitarian crisis and which have been very alone, both logistically and financially, in dealing with this problem. and then of course we have the medium and long-term solutions, and in the medium and long-term solutions we have, first of all, the coast guard which should be greatly strengthened, the humanitarian aid which could be greatly strengthened and we naturally have to have a strategic vision for africa, and here i must say - and i would like this to be my main appeal in the medium term - chancellor merkel just last week proposed a marshall plan for africa which can create development in the mediterranean basin and in sub-saharan africa for the next 20 or 30 years. let's get this plan moving. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer. – my dear colleague, i was totally convinced that you were one of the best supporters – the main supporters – of global britain, a britain open to receive people from all across the globe. no europeans, but for people from the other continents the doors are open: that is global britain. so i’m very surprised by your question.
mr president, commissioner, minister, once again the mediterranean has been in the news. the lives of almost 700 people were at stake, including 123 children alone, 11 infants and seven pregnant women. it is a bad sign when we see politicians react with indifference and even hostility. for hours we have watched a sad hell because once again we have not been europe, much less the union. we've been to 28 territories, each looking at its own belly button. we all lost. and because lives are at stake, we should be ashamed. the wound has been exposed again: the common european asylum system is not working. but let us be clear, reforming this system, reforming dublin, is a call for all member states to do their fair share, so that there is real european solidarity. it does not mean open doors, but it cannot mean just more money from the community budget. parliament has done its part: we have agreed to strengthen our borders and just yesterday we reached an agreement with the council to reform the schengen information system and increase security. but we also presented our position on reforming the asylum system. we are ready to co-decide, but the member states are doing everything to delay. yesterday a prime minister, unfortunately, dared to speak of the willpower and how it would have returned to italy. we would all be much better off if the willpower had returned to the council and to all the member states and we could finally reform the asylum system in europe. solidarity is the cradle of europe, but it has sunk into the mediterranean. have the courage to rescue her.
mr president, the 629 migrants who, instead of being rescued, were pushed adrift between italy and malta are but a thin expression of the hundreds of thousands of crossings in recent years. they are the faint remembrance of the 792 who died this year or the 16 000 who died in the last four years in the mediterranean, a common grave of oblivion. they are a clear demonstration of the total lack of solidarity of the eu and its powers towards those who have nothing to lose and risk their lives for better days. they can play the game of pushing between the eu and the member states. the responsibilities of those who close ports today are no different from those of those who did so before them, who criminalized rescue organizations, who signed criminal agreements with third countries to deter and contain migration. they are no different from the walls of spain, austria, hungary or greece, or from the real concentration camps on european soil. all this with the connivance of the eu and its xenophobic and racist policies which grossly violate human rights, international law.
the case of the aquarius, which the governments of italy and malta refused to take in, despite carrying 629 rescued people at sea, has served as a vivid reminder that the plight of migrants in the mediterranean is also the plight of europe, by calling into question the civilizational and humanistic principles that are its most valuable heritage and its main legacy. some progress in managing external borders, in helping refugees and in addressing the root causes of migration flows through development aid is not enough to hide the failure of the various attempts to share the burden of hosting refugees by distributing them in a solidarity-based and proportionate way among member states. it is clear that the italian and maltese governments have made a reprehensible and shocking choice in the case of the aquarius, turning their backs on human beings in danger, but it is also true that the effort required of these countries is unfair and that it is not enough to increase financial transfers to make it fair. it is regrettable that three years on, the eu has still not been able to reform the dublin regulation or impose consequences on member states that have taken refugees in.
in writing. in the face of the eu's cold inhumanity, some 800 people have already died this year while crossing the mediterranean. in the last four years, more than 16,000 have perished, making the mediterranean a giant mass grave. official figures that conceal a reality very likely even darker. driven by hunger, poverty and war - fleeing devastation scenarios in which the eu has heavy responsibilities - they bump into a wall of indifference and inhumanity, erected by the eu. the push-pull game we are seeing between the eu and the member states and between the member states is deplorable. how deplorable are attempts to criminalise the rescue and rescue organisations working on the ground. organisations whose action is necessary in the face of the omission and negligence of the eu and its governments in humanitarian rescue and salvage operations. and the agreements with third countries - particularly the one signed with turkey - to repel, contain or expel migrants are deplorable. eu agencies on the ground, rather than humanitarian action, focus on implementing these agreements. the 629 migrants adrift on the aquarius, including many children and pregnant women, are a telling expression of what the eu has become.
in writing. – salvini lies: it is not true that italy is left alone with migration: last friday i and other members of the special committee on terrorism passed by the aquarius, docked at catania, and went all the way to the pozzalo ‘hotspot’, which would not be equipped and able to articulate with european law enforcement command structures to identify, screen and assist people arriving, if it were not for european funding, manning and organisation. salvini lies: portraying migrants and refugees as threats and omitting that inflows into italy have dramatically decreased. and yes, maybe inflows are managed by mafias trafficking human beings, but only because other liars and fearmongers in european governments are fuelling their sordid business by refusing to open legal, controlled ways for migrants and refugees. italy and malta violated international and european law by refusing 629 people rescued by the aquarius. the socialists now in power in spain saved european decency and humanity. but that will not always work: we need governments to approve at the next european council the dublin regulation reform and the full migration/asylum package, proposed by parliament to ensure that the eu, in solidarity, manages migration, not the human traffickers.
madam president, commissioner, the future relationship with the african, caribbean and pacific countries must be based, first and foremost, on respect for the independence and sovereignty of the states, on respect for the will of each people. the weight of centuries of oppression and colonial domination has not disappeared. he's alive in the current relationship. asymmetrical interdependence, uneven development are realities which should make us put development cooperation, the fight against poverty, inequalities and social injustices at the heart of this relationship. instead of seeking to export models of state and economic organization, the european union should respect the legitimate choices and priorities of the acp countries. instead of seeking to perpetuate domination relations, which is what instruments such as the so-called economic partnership agreements are for, the european union must recognise the specific needs of the acp countries and the negative impact on them of policies of liberalisation and deregulation of international trade. instead of trying to divide and conquer, the european union must respect the unity and cohesion of the acp countries.
mr president, in a world marked by uncertainty and the fluidity of geopolitical relations, the negotiations of this eu-acp partnership agreement are an opportunity to set up a framework for cooperation based on respect for autonomy, human rights, the participation of civil society and sustainability, principles which are crucial for a humanistic and fair globalisation. it is also important to ensure that blocks maintain an overall position without prejudice to the specific approach in the negotiation plan. eu-acp cooperation must be a reference for the multiple partnerships the world needs, allocating resources that promote dignified and sustainable development, helping to reduce forced migration and the phenomena of extreme poverty and inequality that are eroding 21st century cities. and the resolution we are discussing here today is a commitment by the european parliament to this agenda for the future.
mr president, commissioner and minister, before i begin i would like to say to mrs beňová that nothing you have said is true and you know that very well. roma communities, the largest ethnic minority in the european union, are an integral part of european society and economy, but they continue to be deprived of their fundamental rights. persecuted for centuries, roma citizens in europe today continue to be victims of prejudice and discrimination in education, employment, access to housing and social benefits, thus making them particularly vulnerable to poverty, social exclusion and trafficking in human beings. they are still often victims of forced evictions, racist attacks and police mistreatment, and in some member states are prevented from obtaining citizenship and the necessary documents for health and social security services. this shows that, despite some improvements in the field of education, member states are lacking in their fight against discrimination and makes it urgent to ensure that the union's framework for national roma integration strategies in the post-2020 period is more ambitious and more integrated, in a logic of empowerment and fostering the participation of the roma communities themselves - i conclude, mr president - so that they finally cease to exist in the union as stateless roma or treated as second-class citizens.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the constructive way in which we have worked and indeed reached good compromises. the first commitment is to ensure greater investment and differentiated cultural mobility for the outermost, mountainous and remote regions. we also ask for funding for schools to visit cultural institutions, and we also ask for scholarships for internships in cultural institutions. we also advocate in this report the generalization of the european student card and free access to cultural institutions in the european union, precisely through this card. on the other hand, and this is no less important, we need, as has already been said, fiscal justice in the cultural field so that there is no double taxation and that there is a tax reduction particularly for the private sector that finances culture. the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, said that artists and creators were the jewels in the crown. more recently, the president of this parliament said, and i quote, 'culture unites us more than economics'. now, if culture has to be a bet, then why do we have only 0.15% of the current eu budget for the creative europe programme? why do we not also see a greater emphasis on funding for culture in the future? i would like to see this union, commissioner, as concerned about the tithes of culture as it is about the tithes of the banking and financial system. i would like to see what this other europe would look like if it chose to invest more in culture. investing in culture is investing in democracy, it is investing in human dignity and in memory, our memory. this implies, i repeat, the political courage to decentralize geographically the investment made in culture and to bet on cultural mobility. the mobility of european and non-european artists is a way of promoting peace, sharing and division which implies the deconstruction, forgiveness, of stereotypical social and cultural representations. and those who don't invest in culture are those who don't know what this world is made of.
commissioner, some of my colleagues in this parliament have criticised the commission for its alleged lack of interest in fighting corruption. i don't know if these criticisms are fair or unfair. but there is one that is fair to do right here and now. this parliament is not interested in fighting corruption. we have to look at the number of members who attended this debate, we have to look at the front rows of the different political benches. i have to tell you this: the worst form of corruption is political corruption. there are clear signs in many member states, and even in the union institutions, that many political decisions are taken not in their public interest but in the private interests of the decision-makers. a lot of political decisions are made so that the decision maker can have good jobs after he leaves, after he leaves those positions. in many countries, commissioner, madam president, it is more dangerous to denounce corruption than to practice it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the pillars of the survival of illiberal regimes is their ability to control the political opposition and civil society. in the case of putinism (sorry... i came running... trying to keep up) this control extends beyond the borders of your country and living proof of this are the 64 ukrainian political prisoners who, in russian prisons and in the occupied territories of crimea, are paying a high price for their courage. among them is oleg sentsov, the ukrainian filmmaker illegally sentenced to 20 years in prison in russia for alleged terrorist activities in crimea, whose health is worsening after he began a hunger strike exactly one month ago to demand the immediate release of his compatriots. ladies and gentlemen, on the day when the football world cup in russia is also starting - an event which mr putin has used as a propaganda tool to project his power - the european union must once again affirm that human rights are an essential component of its foreign policy and therefore demand the immediate release of ukrainian citizens illegally detained in russia in degrading and inhumane conditions.
mr president, mr commissioner, at this very moment, just a few months before the legislative elections, the bahraini national assembly is about to pass a law whose practical effect will be to ban and silence opposition to the current government forever. dear colleagues, the truth is that since june 2016, the bahraini regime has radically tightened the crackdown on dissent and human rights activists, increasing arbitrary detentions, torture and civilian trials by military courts and passing laws that threaten to severely limit the political rights of its citizens. this repression has hit nabeel rajab, blogger and president of the bahrain human rights center, who has been detained for the sixth time since 2011, and has now seen the five-year prison sentence imposed last february ratified. what the regime criminalizes is called, in the european union, the free exercise of the right to freedom of expression. bahrain must respect the commitments it has made by ratifying the international covenant on civil and political rights and release unconditionally, immediately, a citizen who is only seeking to exercise his freedom of expression courageously and peacefully.
mr president, commissioner, i have not been to myanmar or bangladesh, but i am well aware of the scale of the tragedy there. the 700,000 rohingya displaced people who are currently in bangladesh - more than half of them children - live in overcrowded camps with no hygiene, sanitation or security, and the one million who remain in myanmar - many of them in detention centres - are in even worse conditions after the expulsion of ngos from that country. in addition to unsanitary conditions, malnutrition, and post-traumatic stress, they now face the risk of landslides, floods, and the spread of waterborne diseases such as typhoid, diphtheria, and hepatitis in the midst of the monsoon season. the true extent of the atrocities committed by the myanmar military will only be known after independent human rights organisations are granted full and unhindered access to the raqqa state, but the dire situation of these displaced people, who are denied citizenship by their country and who in bangladesh do not even have refugee status, is now evident. the union - which has provided more than eur 40 million in humanitarian aid - cannot but urge the burmese authorities to allow international humanitarian organisations access and to support efforts to implement the repatriation agreement signed.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and her team on the excellent work they have done, and that is why we are in a position to move forward with the negotiations so that the implementation of this programme can be as rapid as possible. today we face new geostrategic challenges which require the european union to strengthen its own security capabilities, while at the same time strengthening our capacity to participate, on an equal footing, in broader partnerships to maintain peace and prevent conflict on a global scale. the development of a stronger european defence industry is also a necessary condition for ensuring the security of european citizens and generating positive externalities through the sharing of innovation with traditional industries and the wider economy. the strategic autonomy to defend ourselves is the best way to guarantee peace, and we know that guaranteeing peace is one of the greatest achievements of the european project in its 60 years of existence. the eligibility conditions set out also express a european matrix, because they exclude the financing of products and actions that may be related to weapons of mass destruction, landmines or other types of armaments prohibited by international conventions. european control of the beneficiary consortia and the projects developed is also ensured, as is the location of the development and production process within the territory of the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's commitments to the region, in particular the implementation of the eu's commitments to the region in the context of the union's external action. the european fund of 500 million is a starting point which must take account of its effective use by european industry, the promotion of technological innovation for defence purposes in a broad sense and the inclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the consortia supported. moreover, sustainable and widespread economic and social development in the territory is also part of a modern concept of defence. with the right conditions for the specific sector, the more smes and european knowledge centres are involved, the more the programme will take root and be successful. starting well, with focus, without financial reallocations that take investment away from other areas, is an important step for europe's information, at a time when diplomacy and economic competitiveness cannot be separated from the deterrent force of the risks of war conflict.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my full solidarity with the just struggle of interpreters. this european programme of industrial development in the field of defence is a good illustration of the nature of the dangers which the european union poses to the future of the peoples of the continent, particularly in view of the deepening of its militaristic dimension. this is a leap that cannot but unsettle all lovers of peace. the aim is to secure budgetary resources, diverted from programmes for civilian and peaceful purposes, to finance research and development of armaments and, at subsequent stages, also the production and purchase of such armaments. millions of euros are going to be poured into the military-industrial complex of the great european powers. the same people who never secured sufficient resources to achieve the economic and social cohesion so much advocated, to combat the effects of the crisis, poverty, social injustice, to support development, do not now hesitate to channel resources to boost the war industry. they are, at bottom, consistent in their action. those who threaten social progress and those who impose social regression on us are the same who threaten peace. we are here to express our firm opposition to this course.
the report is a first step towards a european union which is not only a european union of the people, but also a european union of the people. indigenous peoples, especially vulnerable and unprotected in the context of globalisation and climate change, continue to be victims of murder, aggression, forced eviction from their ancestral lands, arbitrary detention, persecution and intimidation, racism and exclusion. as if that were not enough, they have alarming levels of poverty, disease and illiteracy, insufficient political participation and representation and an accelerated loss of their cultural and linguistic heritage. but the scope of this report goes beyond the issue of the rights of indigenous peoples to cover the phenomenon of 'land grabbing', which affects not only these peoples but also numerous farming communities spread over various regions of the world. it is well known that the growing demand for natural resources by the extractive industry and agro-industrial sector is putting enormous pressure on territories traditionally inhabited and farmed by these communities, with conflicts over land use sometimes leading to serious violations of their human rights. one of the darkest aspects of this picture is the number of murders of indigenous and land rights defenders that have occurred in recent years. in 2017 alone, 312 activists were killed, two-thirds of them in defense of these rights. the european union must therefore give greater prominence to the situation of these communities in its external policy, in particular in its dialogue with third countries on human rights and in trade, cooperation and development agreements. the report also proposes a series of initiatives to improve the situation of these communities and protect their rights, starting with the adoption and implementation of the relevant international treaties by all the member states of the european union. in this chapter, ilo convention no 169 is never to be stressed again, as it is the only legally binding treaty. but a more robust approach is also proposed in the field of the european union's extraterritorial obligations and domestic activities with extraterritorial impact. this requires, first and foremost, that violations of the rights of these peoples, which directly or indirectly result from the extraterritorial actions of companies and investors under the jurisdiction of the european union, are properly investigated and sanctioned. it is in this spirit that this report proposes the creation of a european mechanism to enable these communities to lodge complaints about these violations, regardless of the country in which they are registered, so that they have effective access to justice. it is also recommended that development projects supported by the european union which have an impact on the livelihoods of these peoples should strictly respect their right to be informed and consulted in advance in order to obtain their prior consent. in parallel, the european union should carry out impact studies before concluding trade and cooperation agreements. finally, we cannot underestimate the importance of these communities for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and for halting deforestation. that is also why the european union must include them in its strategies for sustainable development and the fight against climate change. this is a dimension which this report seeks to emphasize. indigenous peoples are often, as we all know, completely invisible people. people without a voice, seen as anachronisms, as people who are too much, who no longer have a place in our world. the european union must make an effort to make them more visible, and we hope that this report has made a small contribution to that end. before i close, i would like to stress the way in which the dialogue with all the groups in parliament on this subject has proceeded. this report has been greatly enriched by various contributions from representatives of various parliamentary groups in this parliament. i am convinced that the conditions are thereby created for a stronger report to come out of this and, above all, one that will be supported by a broad support from the members of this european parliament.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. many of the food products we consume in the european union have indigenous blood in them. what is the occupation of land is done illegally, either by the owners of the agro-industry or by those who exploit natural resources in an absolutely illegal way, and this translates into the loss of life. the so-called democratic countries, such as those in the european union, cannot accept these criminal acts, nor the rape of indigenous women, nor the murder of indigenous women, as in the case of berta cáceres. i therefore attach importance to the contents of this report, which say that not everything is worthwhile. we have to protect the rights of indigenous peoples, their lands and their communities, but we also have to make sure that we don't negotiate trade agreements that are ultimately signed in ink that is actually the blood of lost lives.
mr president, briefly, to congratulate the rapporteur and to underline the importance of this debate here in the house of european democracy. the defence of the rights of indigenous peoples is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the states in which their communities are located. without paternalism, the international community must also provide a legislative framework for the lives of these communities and the territories they inhabit. international law must be applied, especially when the rights of these peoples are in question. in this connection, i would like to stress the importance of the ratification of ilo convention no 169 on indigenous and tribal peoples, and i also hope that the 24 member states of our union which have not yet done so will ratify it. these ratifications seem to me to be fundamental, mainly because they demonstrate that there is global agreement on a broad set of principles and standards on these rights. in conclusion, and as president of the delegation for relations with brazil, i would like to welcome pope francis' announcement to convene a special assembly of the synod of bishops for october next year on 'the amazon: new paths for the church and for an integral ecology', which aims, among other objectives, to promote a fundamental ethical requirement and a basic commitment to human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. as the commissioner has just said, and very rightly so, this is a matter of extreme complexity. there are no simple solutions to these kinds of problems. it is therefore important that the european union fully shoulders its responsibilities. when we make a commitment to indigenous peoples, we are above all making a commitment to the best of ourselves. we have a set of values that inspire our action, which are fairly consensual values. although we are living in difficult times in european political life today, it is good at other times to realize that these values remain relatively unifying values for europeans and their political representatives. respect for human rights and respect for the fundamental principle of the dignity of the human person are essential values which must always govern our political intervention in all circumstances. then our policies will be decided differently, according to the doctrinal and programmatic choices of each individual, in the respect of the individual by parliamentary democracies such as those in which we live. but there are a set of core values that have to be guarded. today, when we talk about indigenous peoples, we are also talking about these values. we all recognise that indigenous peoples, who in fact represent a significant percentage of humanity, are peoples particularly affected by situations of violence, oppression and injustice. they are often completely misunderstood. perhaps the greatest injustice is to look at them and see in them a kind of anachronism that has to be questioned, that has to be exterminated. it is often on this basis, on the basis that indigenous peoples are anachronistic peoples, that we turn a blind eye, all too often, to much of the violence that is committed against them. the contribution which this european parliament can and must make - and i am sure it will do so tomorrow with a very significant vote - is to assume this responsibility on behalf of the europeans. just to finish, let me just have another 30 seconds to say this. i am aware that this report points to the fact that we are asking more of europeans than of the other peoples of the world, and the only remark i have heard throughout this debate is that by doing so we would be establishing a differentiation which would backfire on us. but europe, in order to hold others to account, must first set an example. it is precisely by setting this example to other peoples and other nations and other regions of the world that we will be in a better position to actively participate in an international debate that is useful in promoting the rights of indigenous peoples.
we are all familiar with the story of noyud ali, a yemeni girl who was divorced at the age of ten. she took a chance to get out of the house, got in a cab, and asked to be taken to a courthouse. i told the judge i wanted a divorce. noyud married against her will. she was taken by her husband and, on the same night, raped by this man, says the girl, who smelled of onions. she asked her mother-in-law for help. that help never came. she had started her married life working in the kitchen during the day and being beaten and raped at night. this is a similar story to the 15 million girls who are forced into marriage every year. that's 28 a minute. of the 193 countries, 144 do not prohibit child marriage. we need to ban and criminalize, we need to educate. we need to know if prevention programmes are effective. finally, we must consider whether european funding for external action should depend on concrete and measurable measures to combat child marriage. our message can only be one: child marriage is unacceptable.
madam president, commissioner, there is a very broad consensus today that the issue of climate change is one of the major problems facing humanity and that it can only be solved by a global response. this means that the various political actors, the various states and the various supranational bodies are obliged to develop intensive diplomatic activity to ensure that the responses to this problem are coordinated. the european union has been distinguished at world level by the way it has followed up this issue and sought to find solutions with a view to its resolution. it is obviously a complex issue, not one that can be resolved immediately, but above all it is one that can only be properly addressed if there is a policy articulation at international level, which means that our diplomatic action must always take this climate issue into account. in our relations with other countries, in our relations with other regions of the world, we have an obligation to put this issue at the centre of our diplomatic concerns, and i therefore wish to congratulate the authors of this report on the timeliness and quality of the report.
madam president, i would like to say to the chancellor that austria has an ambitious motto for its presidency, which is to protect europe. but i must say that i am concerned by some signs of hesitation on the part of the presidency. let me be clear: this is a moment where we should not go for mid—range solutions or small arrangements. the choice is clear for the european union and for the austrian presidency. you have one choice, which is to follow those voices calling for national solutions and the closure of borders to protect people: that is one road. and then we have the other road, which is to push for real european solutions: bold, ambitious and turned to the future. this is the expectation we should have regarding the austrian presidency. let me be clear: what are the things on which you should be able to deliver, all through your presidency, in order really to protect people? first, a european social pillar of rights, which is important, inter alia, in terms of coping with the digital revolution, labour contracts and social protection for all citizens. second, making sure that the community budget brings back cohesion to the european union. third, reform of economic and monetary union, restoring upward convergence, not divergence. lastly, we need a european policy to cope with the refugee and migration situation in such a way that we are again proud to be european and proud of our human values. that means having a search and rescue system at european level, a reorganised european border and also a european asylum system. we know, of course, that we need to work with countries of origin. but, mr chancellor, these are real european solutions, and we want the austrian presidency to move in these directions.
europe needs migrants to compensate for population decline, and illegal arrivals have decreased by 95 percent since 2015. the austrian presidency lies, instills fear and serves a very dangerous populist agenda - the same one that opens internment camps for refugees in southern germany. mr prime minister, if you want to control the external borders, why don't you try to get the eu to open up legal, controlled routes for refugees and migrants, instead of continuing to feed the business of the smugglers who are the ones who manage the routes and the flows? if you want a 'europe that protects', why not give priority to the vat reform proposed by the commission, so that almost a third of the eu and member states' budgets (€60 billion a year) will not continue to be used to finance mafias and terrorist groups through 'carousel fraud'? why does it continue to let austria function as a 'lavandaria' for kleptocrats from the kremlin, ukraine, the balkans and other countries?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an essential tool for the recognition and promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples at a time when their protection is being eroded and when the intimidation, attacks and killings of those who defend their rights are on the increase. in the 21st century, indigenous peoples continue to face discrimination and social exclusion, are threatened with property rights over their ancestral lands and resources, and are today particularly vulnerable to climate change. i therefore believe that the european union must strengthen dialogue and consultation processes with indigenous communities and ensure that its trade, investment and cooperation policies respect the human and environmental rights of those communities and peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking informally about climate refugees for more than ten years, and i am therefore pleased to have been able to vote in favour of a report which is intended to finally give greater visibility to the phenomenon and to call for a definitive definition by the united nations. essentially unlike environmental migrants who move in search of better conditions, climate refugees find themselves without a home, without food, without basic living conditions, risking death from hunger, thirst and disease, all due to global phenomena caused by climate change. i am talking in particular of fires, floods, rising seas and oceans and extreme drought which are forcing people to flee, and which cannot be fully addressed within the framework of human rights and in the light of international law. instead of looking the other way and pretending that these situations don't exist and aren't typical, as has been done for the last ten years, it's time to take up our responsibility in climate diplomacy as europeans, leading this definition of refugees and creating the mechanisms necessary to protect these citizens.
madam president, the recent european council proved that something is wrong in the european union because we have in front of us a clear choice. on the one hand is the option of a europe that exploits citizens’ fears and advises a return to national borders, or of foot-dragging on important reforms, such as that of the eurozone for which we have been waiting for 10 years. on the other hand is the option of finally putting on the table at the european council the proposals which we know about and know should be adopted. the choice can no longer be delayed because if we delay until december, then forget it! we are just paving the way for the decline of european integration. it is easy to foresee that. the european council has come to a point where it needs to decide on another way: to use qualified majority voting, please, whenever this is possible, and it is possible on many of the blocked proposals. i would say to the council: you have clear positions, majority positions from the european parliament, giving you backing. use this. put on the table clear proposals for a clear definition from governments. we are in need of this. there are four big proposals to be put on the table. the first is to organise a european border capable of protecting people in europe and also of giving protection to those asking for refuge. a credible proposal for a partnership with africa also needs to be put on the table because everybody knows that without this, there is no real solution. a proposal for agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff), needs to be put on the table, providing cohesion and proper conditions for implementation of the european social pillar. and finally, on eurozone reform, yes, we have, so far, the only monetary zone in the world without fiscal capacity or deposit guarantee. the european stability mechanism needs to attain the capability framework and have the conditions for taking decisions. if these proposals are not put on the table, mr tusk and mr juncker, you will lose your own personal chance. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i really believe that, when it comes to european asylum, something in respect of which european values need to be asserted, the treaty of lisbon is clear. we can decide by qualified majority voting, and your argument that security concerns should come into play is not relevant because, of course, we need to be careful about this, but that’s exactly why we need to build a european border. that is completely compatible with providing a european asylum system.
madam president, allow me to express my solidarity with the just struggle of interpreters. the council decisions highlight the inhumane nature of the eu's response to migration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they propagated defence against alleged threats which, in their absence, were intended to justify security and militaristic policies. they criminalize those seeking safety and promote measures that curtail the freedoms of people inside and outside the country, fuelling xenophobic and racist sentiments. they integrate the most reactionary views in the response to a humanitarian crisis that they turn a blind eye to. the repetition of the eu-turkey agreement, the creation of the horrifying landing platforms, authentic concentration camps sponsored by the eu, are an unavoidable violation of international law, from rescue to non-refoulement or to the request for asylum. the death sentence of thousands of people in the mediterranean is your signature, leaving those who escape hostage to human trafficking networks. such decisions do not dissociate themselves, but rather reflect and deepen the eu's militaristic escalation or policies that fuel exploitation, social exclusion, poverty, cuts in social functions and policies, in health or education, or the debt shackle. the country-specific recommendations adopted in the context of the european semester or the euro-zone rules are translated into economic and social differences, into conditionalities and impositions on budgetary and economic policies, which compromise national sovereignty and are contrary to the interests of portugal and the portuguese people and the other countries.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the first point, which i think is essential, is to introduce some calm and some tranquility into this debate. this year, the number of migrants and refugees is not alarming and should therefore allow us to take a decision and a set of resolutions calmly and with a view to the medium term. there is one fact that is undeniable: demography is the only exact social science and the numbers speak for themselves. there will be no controls and no barriers to stop this movement, and so we must have control of the process and for that we must focus on medium-term solutions. one is to strengthen the coast guard and the border guard in a very, very, very robust way, and the other is a marshall plan for africa. without a marshall plan for africa, there will be no solution to this problem. europe once benefited from a us marshall plan. the time has now come for us to repay this aid which the americans once gave and to put africa in a development situation which will mitigate this movement. only then can we go far, but for that, mr president-in-office, there can be no budget 1.0, with a budget of 1.0 there will be no solution to any problem, let alone the problem of migration. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr rangel, can you explain to some of the members of this house that in the time when there was no schengen and when there were supposedly hard borders, over a million citizens, your fellow citizens and mine, had no difficulty crossing these pure and hard borders in search of a better life. that's exactly what africans are doing and we have responsibilities and we can't change and let people die. we are not fascists. we learn from history.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. member ana gomes, there are many points on which i disagree but here is one point i would like to make. on thursday, the prime minister of norway told me in person that she was minister for immigration and integration and that the situation in europe today is much better than it was before. so what we have to do is to prevent, to do careful control, to have good border protection, to invest also in africa and at the same time to allow for entries that are, let's say, gradual entries into our space and if we do this without discrimination, and even understanding that some economic migrants are in a desperate situation and therefore are practically refugees, i believe we will have a balanced solution for the near future.
mr president, europe cannot absorb all the refugees who seek it, whether from the middle east or africa, but it can do more, much more, to solve the conflicts and wars that generate these refugees. europe, as someone has said, cannot absorb all the poverty in africa, but it can do more, much more, to combat poverty on that continent, not least because we have very special historical responsibilities. europe dominated africa for more than 500 years. europe drew the internal borders of africa and this is the result? is this the result of european domination in africa? there is therefore a lot to be done. the solution is not to build walls, as some claim, or to say, as some do, 'welcome, come more' to refugees and migrants seeking europe. the solution lies in europe's assuming its historic responsibilities in this matter.
in writing. in the last month, nearly 400 people have died in the mediterranean trying to reach europe on the other hand, on 1 july 32 people entered italy irregularly. no one in greece. the figures are accurate and provided by the united nations and demonstrate a trend which is not new (the council itself acknowledges a 95% decrease in illegal entries). we all know that the control of our external borders is not the real problem: however, that is the result of the summit. there is no european approach, there is no solidarity between the member states and the council has regressed: we have regressed to 'solutions' that are ethically dubious and purely voluntary. and then there's the surreal and inconsequential announcement of the cdu/csu deal. instead of a fair distinction between refugees and migrants, we put them all in the same bag and, sadly, in the same "camps". the member states are still thinking about one election at a time. solidarity a la carte is the real problem plaguing europe. my question is simple: when will we make funds and schengen conditional on participation in the joint effort to create a european asylum area?
the european council underlines the deep crisis in which the eu finds itself. its conclusions not only do not open up any prospects for overcoming it, but also contain new elements of crisis. the adoption of the 'country-specific recommendations' under the european semester renews the pressure to reduce primary public expenditure, in particular in the health sector, alongside the increase in debt repayment expenditure. the debate on deepening emu which was prompted by the conclusions of the franco-german summit makes it clear that, in the name of a supposed 'improvement' of the euro, the aim is to reinforce the chain of constraints and impositions which limit national sovereignty and thus the possibility of affirming sovereign development projects based on social progress. the militaristic and imperialist character of the eu, the 'european pillar' of nato, is being reinforced in accordance with the interests of its main powers, particularly france and germany. the concept of a 'fortress europe' is being consolidated, based on an even more selective, inhuman and exploitative view of migration, supported by measures of a security, militaristic and criminalising nature, which disregard the rights of migrants and refugees and foster xenophobic and racist sentiments. these findings "institutionalize" this view.
migration of peoples between regions and continents has always existed. genetic diversity, the fruitful interbreeding of traditions and cultures, the interpenetration of customs and beliefs are the watermark of human evolution. the issue of migration in the european union (eu) has been used by populist forces to implode the humanist and solidarity-based foundations of the partnership. the perception of the volume and impact of these flows is deliberately exaggerated and the positive consequences ignored. the 'agreement' reached in the european council is defensive and insufficient. a different approach is needed. turn the threat into an opportunity for change. a balanced distribution of migrants across the different eu countries requires convergent levels of prosperity and opportunities across all the union's territories. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. investing in improving the structural conditions of european economies will facilitate the integration of migrants, creating more and better opportunities for resident populations and creating conditions for the exploitation of the potential that can be extracted from a positive demographic shock.
mr president, the reality of the road transport sector is one of brutal exploitation of workers: extremely high levels of precariousness and very low wages, where illegal practices of payment per kilometre, tonne or journey are reported, and long working hours to meet the needs of the large economic groups. the right to be posted is limited and personal and family isolation is imposed during long periods of service, which some proposals make worse. the legitimate need for rest is neglected and the high levels of stress and physical and psychological exhaustion to which workers are subjected are ignored. the proposals under discussion are essentially aimed at deepening the mechanisms for exploiting workers, maximising profits and concentrating capital for the benefit of large companies and multinationals in the sector or sectors which depend on road transport, in particular for imports and exports. in the name of the single market, they promote a lower level of living and working conditions in europe, increasing inequalities, exclusion and poverty, options which, unfortunately, the portuguese government has joined.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. as you know, one delegation went to colombia and another to brazil. the situation in brazil is not as big as the situation in colombia, the number of refugees or migrants is substantially lower, but it is still a particularly serious situation for a very simple reason: the brazilian state that borders venezuela is the state of roraima, it's one of the poorest states in brazil and it's a state that is separated from the rest of the brazilian territory by the amazon system. people who arrive in roraima have many difficulties in transiting to other regions, to other states of brazil, or even to other countries, the case of argentina and chile, to which some of the venezuelans wanted to go. two things i noticed. first, the deep despair of those people who left their country for the simple reason that there was a shortage of basic goods, food, medicine and access to medical treatment, and it was in a state of deep despair that those people decided to leave venezuela and go to brazil, always wanting to return, as quickly as possible, to their country of origin. secondly, the good response of the brazilian authorities, who, in excellent coordination with the five un agencies operating on the ground, have given an excellent response in the emergency plan and are now concerned with ensuring what they call the 'internalisation' of venezuelans in brazil, that is, their transfer to other states. i think the european union must continue to be vigilant about this situation. today i am speaking more of the humanitarian dimension, perhaps less of the political one, although on the political issue i am in full agreement with what has just been said here and which is contained in our recommendation and has been repeatedly taken up by us, but from the humanitarian point of view we must be vigilant and we must give the greatest possible support to those countries which are currently hosting venezuelan refugees and migrants in terrible conditions.
madam president, commissioner, the difficult political, social and economic crisis in venezuela is now being joined by an unprecedented migration crisis, which has upset the regional balance, separated families, brought about the institutionalization of many children whose parents have immigrated and caused an increase in asylum applications. according to the latest unhcr report, in 2017, venezuela ranked fourth in the list of asylum seekers in the world, only surpassed by iraq, afghanistan and syria, i.e. countries that have been the scene of wars, suffered military interventions and where violent extremist groups operate. forced migration is unfortunately a persistent situation, which worries us about the harmful effects it will have on venezuela. all this is due to the stubbornness of a regime which insists on trampling on the most basic democratic rules and respect for human rights, and to which i appeal for dialogue with the opposition. in fact, the recent presidential elections, which took place in the circumstances we all know, were marked by the highest abstention rate in decades. a word to the commission, the council and the un for close monitoring, sanctions and the dispatch of humanitarian and financial support to venezuela and its neighbours. the governments and administrations of the countries receiving migrants, in particular brazil and colombia, for their notorious efforts to help the many hundreds of people who arrive at their borders every day and who justify the financial support to these neighbouring countries. i would like to conclude by congratulating this parliament on its role in denouncing these situations, in seeking facts and in providing possible support to migrants, the most recent example being the visit to the borders of brazil and colombia by president tajani. i also send a word of solidarity to the large expatriate community of european citizens living and working in venezuela, including the large portuguese community.
madam president, the humanitarian catastrophe shows venezuela on the road to state failure. a gang of thieves linked to drug trafficking plunder natural resources, with the unbelievable cost of thousands of deaths in 2018 already, from hunger and lack of medicines. 50,000 venezuelans are fleeing every day, dramatically affecting neighboring countries. the union cannot simply condemn the electoral sham and impose targeted sanctions. it must help to dismantle the thieving cabal that brings together opposition and regime figures and engage in empowering social activists, student leaders, new forces in politics and the media to take on and promote the necessary changes. this involves strategy and resources. it is not with small humanitarian programmes administered from brazil that the european union will make a difference. the european parliament cannot wait for the good offices of others. it is time to send missions of political groups, foundations, ngos and other entities and support capacity building programs to help give prominence and strength to venezuelans who can lead the change and stall the catastrophe. in portugal we see our returnees from venezuela arriving in despair. it's time we work with them for change. let's stop with the hot potatoes about the maduro regime rotting away.
(the speaker begins with the microphone off) ...to north korea, which are counted in millions of victims, venezuela is just the latest example of what happens every time communism rises to power. it's always like that, it's always been like that. as we were discussing this, we learned that polio, a tragic disease that has been eradicated for decades in the country, for which there are vaccines, has emerged in venezuela. more than two million venezuelans have fled the country. the once free press has been extinguished or nationalized. people who challenge the regime are murdered or imprisoned for crimes of opinion. there's no food and no medicine. caracas is already the most dangerous city in the world. the country is isolated and in the throes of an election drill, nicolás maduro threatens, saying he is willing to take up arms and make another revolution if the power changes hands by voting. it is to this extent that the communists who defend this regime here in the european parliament are partly responsible for this tragedy in relation to a people who commit the sin of wanting to be free. we are not in doubt: we are on the side of democracy, on the side of freedom, on the side of decency.
madam president, i had a written speech here but i have changed it considerably and i would also like to congratulate the commissioner. last week, commissioner, i was also part of the delegation from this house to colombia, more specifically to the city of cúcuta, and what i saw there, ladies and gentlemen, was literally heartbreaking. i saw a whole people hungry, sick, persecuted, crossing that border, bringing with them and as their only belongings the clothes they wore on their bodies. i saw people with empty eyes, no expression, no hope for their future. i am aware of the work you and the high representative have done to help the people of my country, portugal, who are suffering, and as has already been said here, this is not a crisis caused by any natural disaster, as a result of war or ethnic conflict, but a socioeconomic disaster of gigantic proportions, created by a dictatorial, repressive and criminal regime. i would like to conclude, madam president, by appealing to the commissioner and the entire international community to grant the venezuelan people refugee status, as requested by the unhcr high commissioner. i also ask that, at the appropriate time, mr maduro and his henchmen be tried in the international criminal court for what are, in fact, crimes against humanity.
madam president, everything is possible to create the conditions which justify intervention in venezuela. the narrative to seek and invent a humanitarian crisis, now a migration crisis, knows no bounds. the first is contradicted by un reports, the second by eurostat's own data, which contradict it with negligible levels of asylum applications being approved in the european union. no one, not even the venezuelan authorities, denies the serious economic crisis the country is going through, its social impacts and the increase in migration flows, resulting from sanctions, the economic boycott or the support for internal destabilization and the resulting violence. portugal has registered between 2011 and 2017 three quarters of a million immigrants, 309 thousand permanent, result of your troika and austerity policies. we all have in common that the european union has adopted policies of an interventionist nature, which promote poverty and inequality, which undermine the sovereignty of states and which do not serve the interests of the people, particularly the interests of the portuguese community in venezuela, much less the portuguese people. (the speaker declines to allow mr josé inácio faria to put a question to him under the 'blue card' procedure.)
mr president, how can the european council become embroiled in the lies of the extreme right, considering that disembarkation centres outside europe are actually torture and detention centres as in libya, where the coastguard is a fiction, it is in fact a militia trafficking human beings? how can european leaders embark in the narrative of the extreme right, seeking to criminalise ngos for saving human beings from drowning in the sea? the council has failed until today to give a ‘save and rescue’ mandate to eunavfor med operation sophia, which has nevertheless saved over 30 000 lives thanks to maritime law obligations. if our military, our coastguards and even our ngos were to let people die in the mediterranean, could european leaders look themselves in the mirror? could they face their children and can they face their grandchildren? european commission, do your job! be the guardian of the treaties and pass these guidelines preventing member states from criminalising the saviours of what is left of our decency and humanity.
mr president, small and mediumsized enterprises represent 99% of the european business community, they provide more than 90 million jobs and generate 3.9 billion in value added. the consolidation of an appropriate definition of smes is therefore a fundamental step for the health and competitiveness of the european economy and for the balance of its social fabric. it is essential to ensure simple procedures and legal certainty. the thresholds, namely the number of employees and capital, must be sector-weighted but at the same time be objective in their definition. the key to the definition should be the ability to contribute to better access for these enterprises to markets and to mechanisms for innovation and modernisation. the definition of medium-cap, complementary to the sme definition, cannot reduce the ability of smes to access the various eu programmes. it only makes sense as a process of adding opportunities and not of competing for the same resources. the definition of smes must strengthen these companies on the basis of the european economic and social fabric and this is the challenge to which the commission must respond.
mr president, as a portuguese person who lived under totalitarian rule for part of her life, i should like to say to the prime minister that i feel a lot of sympathy and admiration for the polish people and their liberation from totalitarian rule. but i can only share the concerns and the outrage of my colleagues who see the rule of law being put under attack by your government, prime minister. the brave people of poland have become divided as you have been making slurs against people who are critics of your position – such as some members of our parliament, like róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein, danuta maria hübner and barbara kudrycka and other brave women, who have been slurred as anti-patriotic. i believe that the polish people deserve much better. the polish people are protesting vibrantly in the streets against the attacks on the rule of the law and basic human rights, in particular the rights of women, and i can only pay tribute to the head of the supreme court who went to work today – a brave, patriotic polish woman.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because early and forced child marriage is an abhorrent form of human rights violation which, transcending countries, religions and ethnic groups, perpetuates the dynamics of gender inequalities and jeopardises the lives and future of millions of girls and adolescents throughout the world. for all this, i believe that the european union must strongly condemn this form of violence, must support policies to empower girls and, in its foreign policy and development cooperation, urge its partners to comply with international conventions and legal instruments on children's rights to health, education and non-discrimination.
mr president, this agreement on greece which the eurogroup has reached under your leadership is good news not only for greece but for the euro zone. there are no perfect deals, and this one won't be either. it is perhaps going too far in the budgetary targets, it is falling short of what is needed in the measures for debt sustainability in the long term. but the essential thing is that this agreement ends the financial assistance programme for greece after eight long and difficult years, strengthens financial support in order to give confidence to the greek economy and finally promotes a major restructuring of public debt which has had to overcome many resistances. so the greek people deserve our respect for the sacrifices they have made, the greek government deserves our recognition for succeeding where the right has failed and you, as president of the eurogroup, deserve our support for having achieved this agreement for greece and the euro area.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the eurogroup, ladies and gentlemen, the next multiannual financial framework from 2021 to 2027, the next funds are crucial, they are fundamental to have a cohesive europe, a competitive europe, a secure europe, but also to have a strong and stable euro zone and the president of the eurogroup on this matter has said nothing, has been nonexistent. it was important for us to know, for example, whether the president of the eurogroup agrees with the parliament's proposal or the commission's proposal for the next multiannual financial framework and whether he agrees, for example, with cuts in cohesion policy and its distortion: a cut, for example, in the 45% cohesion fund, which is for the poorest countries, those with less than 90% of gni per capita; agrees, for example, that richer member states should have up to 7% increases in cohesion policy and poorer member states, such as portugal, up to 24% cuts; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept a 15% cut in the common agricultural policy, and whether portugal is prepared to accept a 10% cut in direct payments and a 25% cut in rural development. these are the questions we want to ask because problems are avoided and that is why it is also important, it is essential, to know what the position of the president of the eurogroup is on budgetary capacity. do you agree with the embryo that's being proposed? do you agree with the 30 billion euros for an investment stabilization fund? it also agrees with a national programme for structural reforms of 25 billion and with the criteria. we would like to hear from the president of the eurogroup on this matter and we need a strong and leading president and we hope that this will happen.
madam president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, the end of the greek programme is undoubtedly an important milestone and, precisely to strengthen greece's position, reform of the euro area was necessary and, unfortunately, the last eurogroup summit was a great disappointment. when a plan to end the banking union is announced, which has already been announced before, and even by its predecessors, the result is a disappointing result. it is also disappointing in terms of budgetary capacity and so i would like you to give us at least an idea of what you think the future might be. in these six months there is a waiting period, at the crucial moment that was the end of the greek programme in which we could move forward, the results are absolutely disappointing results. i would therefore like to leave you with a question which is related to budgetary capacity, and since we know that, for example, the portuguese socialist party, to which the government belongs, has advocated the creation of a european tax in all european elections, i would like to ask you what the position is of the president of the eurogroup and the portuguese minister for finance on own resources, which we clearly support, although not in the form of taxes. is the portuguese finance minister and president of the eurogroup in favour of the creation of european taxes? is that the formula you have for leveraging budgetary capacity? so, in addition to shedding a little more light on what, in a propagandistic way, i said was a great success and what everyone knows was a very serious failure, we arrived in june 2018 without a roadmap for the reform of the eurozone. what i was asking you to do is to answer this question very clearly. are you for or against the creation of european taxes? are you or are you not aligned with the portuguese socialist party?
mr commissioner, mr president of the eurogroup, the greek people have made an extraordinary effort to adjust. the time has now come for the european institutions to do their part. i am pleased to see that there is a positive attitude to this and i congratulate you on that. as a portuguese, i am aware of the brutal impoverishment that has been imposed on us and the price we have paid for having a government that believed in the redemptive role of impoverishment. the difference between this strategy and the success of the partnership between the current portuguese government that it is part of and the european institutions cannot but be inspiring for the greek case and for the future of european policies, in particular for the future of the euro zone. it is essential to strengthen budgetary capacity in favour of convergence. the greater the convergence in the euro area, the greater the stability and automatic stabilisation, without prejudice to the mechanisms needed to ensure long-term stability. growth and confidence are the key to success. the banking union, investment support programmes, an increase in own resources and the strengthening of the stability mechanism are examples of measures which give substance to this approach. the successful end of one crisis is the best time to prevent the next one, and i trust, mr president of the eurogroup, that you will do everything in your mandate to ensure that this happens.
madam president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, the greek example is, for the time being, the most vivid demonstration of what can happen and has in fact happened to a country on the periphery of the euro. the euro has cornered the periphery between the sword and the wall: either the blackmail of speculators or the blackmail of the troika. meanwhile, the euro continues to play an endless string of austerity. in the case of portugal, there is renewed pressure to reduce primary public expenditure, particularly on health, and to increase debt expenditure. less money for health, more money for debt, mr moscovici, who is sitting there, came to say a few days ago. the euro is all about attacks on public services, health, education, social security and wages. money exists but disappears in debt that feeds on itself and what do you have to say about this, once again the question, mr president of the eurogroup. to respond to the country's problems requires addressing the constraints and obligations associated with the euro, both those which already exist today and those which are now being prepared under the pretext of the so-called euro reform. affirm sovereignty and a sovereign development project based on social progress.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very lively debate, which is logical since this crisis has caused both pain and passion. but i want to say here, without denying anyone the right to have a different feeling, that the completion of the third economic adjustment programme must be seen for what it is, namely excellent news, both for greece and for the euro area. it shows something that i think we should all be committed to, that we are stronger when we are united than when we are divided. it is proof that responsibility and solidarity are two sides of the same coin and that they must go together. we have been able to play both sides in recent years, and certainly even more so in recent months. this strategy pays off in the end. so i want to avoid any triumphalism here, but i think that catastrophism would be very bad. today the truth is not that greece is out of the woods, because it is not out of the woods, but it is better, it is getting up and recovering step by step. by completing this programme, we are creating the conditions for a lasting and strong recovery. greece is returning to growth, and its fiscal performance is already impressive. unemployment is falling, of course too slowly, but it is falling nonetheless. however, there is still a lot of work to be done before the whole greek population can finally feel the positive effects of the efforts made in recent years. i know, coming back from greece, that the middle class and the most vulnerable still do not feel that the crisis is over and they are right, because they are still paying the legacy in their flesh and in their lives. we must remedy this and that is the whole philosophy of the agreement of 22 june, which mario presented to you, in which the commission was fully involved and in which i fully identify myself. i am convinced, as i have said and i say again, that the agreement we have reached is the best possible agreement. first, because it is balanced, responding both to the needs and interests of the greek people and to the concerns of the partners. it offers freedom - i emphasize that word again - and time for greece to be able to concentrate fully on the essentials - as many of you have said, in different terms, of course - namely, its economic recovery, the creation of strong growth. at the same time, it provides the necessary guarantees and strengthens the confidence of the economic partners of the investors to ensure a smooth return of greece to the financial markets. that is what this is about after 20 august. the various arrangements provided for in the agreement will firstly help to reduce greek debt, which now stands at almost 180% of gdp, below the 100% of gdp threshold. this is an ambitious approach, you will agree. there must also be additional means of making strategic investments in sectors rich in jobs, in favour of competitiveness, in particular those sectors which the greeks themselves have identified in their growth strategy. i am thinking of transport, energy, agri-food, the maritime sector, the pharmaceutical sector, sustainable tourism, a whole series of subjects where greece has comparative advantages to be claimed. today, this is greece's priority, to commit fully to the return of solid growth and is the key to its full recovery. there is still much to be done. i know this and i repeat here that greece will not be able to do this alone. the europeans and the european commission will be with him all the way. our success will be collective or it will not be. we will work closely with the greeks, as we have done for the past eight years. we will do so in the context of the european semester, and i know how important the budgetary meetings we have in the autumn are. since the economic crisis has hit and destabilised greece more than any other country, our agreement does provide for the introduction of enhanced surveillance. i think this is a good compromise for greece and for the european commission, but you will see that this monitoring is not a fourth programme. i have heard the criticisms, i have heard the questions and i want to stress this point one last time. no, you can't! no, no, enhanced surveillance is not a fourth programme in disguise. it serves to maintain the momentum of reform, to strengthen credibility, which will be crucial for greece in the post-programme period. this will reassure markets, investors and european partners. this will also help to contain the internal pressures which will inevitably emerge over the years to influence the responsible policies which are needed. so i have been accused here, as i was in athens yesterday, of playing some political game occupied by some ambition. what i understood, at any rate, in athens yesterday, and again today, is that it is true that elections began in the minds, but not the european elections and not for me, but the elections in greece for some. i realized that for some people, criticizing, criticizing, criticizing is just part of the game. i say this because i do not think that this is an honest attitude, because the commission has been on the side of all the greek governments, as i have been on the side of all the greek governments. i worked well with antonis samaras, the former prime minister of the new democracy party, i worked well with his ministers, mr stournaras and mr hardouvelis, and i work well with alexis tsipras, i also work well with euclid tsakalotos. i had a little more difficulty with yanis varoufakis, not because he is from the syriza party, but because i love greece and the commission is on greece's side. so i say to those who are letting themselves go easily, political passions are what they are, and we all experience them, but they should not lead to discrediting a good agreement. in doing so, you play against your country and i want to play for europe and i want to play for and with greece. i think again that this agreement is not perfect, that there are still many improvements to be made, but that we are really on the right track, and i would like this parliament in its diversity to simply recognise that. it's about honesty and truth, and that's what's always guided me.
president of the eurogroup. – madam president, after listening to all your interesting and well placed comments, concerns and questions, i am even more convinced that given its diversity, future success for greece depends on the resilience that the current reform process can show across political and economic cycles. respecting the hardship that the greek people have experienced in the last eight years is crucial for the continuation of this reform process. and this is the only way that we can show that this is, and was, really not in vain. let me stress that reforms take time to mature. reforms take time to have an effect. and this time that we need to provide this reform process with in a society is best given by its institutions. and in europe this includes the european institutions, and of course the european parliament. that is what our citizens expect from us. we need to make our institutions stronger. we need to make them work. if we look back, we can conclude that we have come a long way and, indeed, as many of you stressed, not everything has been easy. in the past eight years, both greece and the euro area had to overcome hardship. we were pushed to the limit very often. together, however, i think i can say today that we have learned a lot. no doubt we were not fully prepared to deal with this crisis at its outset. many things had to be tried and learned on the go. we all indeed paid a price for that, yet we managed to overcome the obstacles on our way. some of you mentioned concerns vis-à-vis the ongoing legal proceedings against the former president and senior staff of elstat, and those are indeed a matter of serious concern. we have asked the institutions to monitor developments and report to us in the context of the post—programme framework. of course it goes without saying that we fully respect the independence of the greek judiciary, but this is a matter that we need to follow up. reforms are needed, continuing the process of reform is needed, and i am going to stress here a special role – some of you also mentioned this – for public administration reform, and we deem public administration reform for tax collection. that must continue to improve in greece. over those concerns, i must say in any case – and this is my main message here today – that we have many reasons to be proud. today, greece joins ireland, portugal, cyprus and spain and prepares for the post-programme period. greece is ready to turn over a new leaf and is well equipped for ensuring sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth. it is not just greece but also the euro that emerges stronger from this experience. our single currency area has become more resilient and much wiser. it has several tools and solutions to withstand the next crisis, and we are working to strengthen it even more. for those of you who expressed concerns over the success of the greek programmes ahead of us, i would urge you to think of the portuguese experience and of the subsequent waves of reforms that followed the exit of the programme in portugal and that guaranteed a sustainable success for the exit. the portuguese example is a good example for us to be aware of. to finalise, i would just like to say that we are committed to making sure that another eight such years will never be repeated again.
in writing. the greek example is, for the moment, the most vivid demonstration of what can happen, and has happened, to a country on the periphery of the euro. the euro has cornered the periphery between the sword and the wall: either the blackmail of speculators or the blackmail of the troika. meanwhile, the euro continues to play the endless string of austerity. in the case of portugal, there is renewed pressure to reduce primary public expenditure, particularly in the health sector, and to increase debt repayment expenditure. less money for health, more money for debt: i said this to the european commission a few days ago. this is the euro. attack on public services, health, education, social security and wages. the money exists, but it disappears into debt that feeds on itself. to respond to the country's problems requires addressing the constraints and impositions associated with the euro - those that already exist today and those that are being prepared under the pretext of the so-called reform of the euro. it demands the affirmation of national sovereignty and a sovereign development project based on social progress.
madam president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a prevailing idea today that political discourse must be inflammatory and polemical, about everything and against almost everyone, and without any consideration of an ideological or ethical nature. the italian minister of the interior is a paradigmatic example of this new way of being. racial censuses are absolutely intolerable. they violate the most basic values and principles of our union. they are reminiscent of and dangerously similar to other periods of european history, where its darkest pages are to be found. we are not here to discuss what the union can or cannot do more to better protect and integrate the largest ethnic minority in europe, whose territory has been disputed for centuries. the aim of this debate is to announce measures taken by the italian minister which are discriminatory and have no place in the european union or any of its member states. back in the daylight, what was never really hidden. the roma community remains a target of discrimination and faces serious integration problems. we can and must make better use of the means at the union's disposal. but let us be clear: there is no place in our union for xenophobic policies.
madam president, since coming to power, salvini has not stopped lying and promoting a vicious, racist and anti-eu agenda in his country and beyond, as was seen in the alliance he made with german minister seehofer, prime minister kurz and their visegrad allies against migrants and refugees. racial censuses and deportations of an ethnic minority are more than illegal, they are crimes. salvini is promoting his agenda, his political narrative based on fear and xenophobia, which foster hatred and racial discrimination. it started by persecuting refugees and immigrants, and soon it targeted the roma and sinti minorities. who's coming next? what's the wretched minister of the interior of italy up to? salvini's supporters, inside and outside this parliament, are a disgrace to europe. they dehumanize vulnerable people, they want to scapegoat and persecute the poorest and most socially disadvantaged minorities, for the collective responsibility of all of us. we can and must do more to ensure the full social integration of the roma and sinti, who are as much europeans as any of us - indeed, the most representative minority in europe. the soraya post here warned of the pogroms that are already underway in this europe, in ukraine. it is time to remember the tragic lessons of european history. the last time anti-roma laws were enacted was under mussolini in 1938. we cannot go backwards civilisationally. salvini must be brought to justice, either in italy or in europe, for incitement to hatred and racial discrimination, for breach of european and international law. salvini was elected, but he dishonors italy. it does not protect it, it puts it at risk, it puts all of europe at risk. the fascist salvini has to stop.
like other european countries, italy has recently seen populist currents enter its government that seek to direct the discouragement and frustration of some layers of society against minorities, especially against immigrant groups, exploiting superficial feelings and territorial or identity drives. the project to census roma living in the country, announced by the new minister of the interior, matteo salvini, constitutes one of the most serious episodes of this dangerous populist vertigo, evoking terrible memories and touching deep wounds. such a project would constitute an exercise in ethnic signalling totally contrary to the most basic principles of decency and human dignity, as well as to the values of the european union, and unconstitutional in the light of the italian basic law. ethnic stigmatisation cannot take place in the european union, which was built against such practices and on the rubble that resulted from them. we cannot tolerate ethnic prejudice becoming a state policy. such instincts must be firmly denounced and combated by the european institutions as soon as they emerge, before they can spread and threaten the safety of the people concerned and, ultimately, the european project itself.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, back in 2015, in connection with the european agenda for security, i argued that our priority should be the three major existing union systems: the schengen information system the sis , eurodac and the vis the visa information system. the security of citizens, the free movement of europeans and the integrity of the schengen area are preserved by strengthening and making better use of these systems: an improved and reformed eurodac to reflect new challenges, mainly in relation to asylum, a strengthened and better used schengen information system to reflect new security challenges and, finally, a reformed visa information system, the vis, to reflect the challenges of mobility and migration. instead of new and multiple information systems, our investment and effort should be focused on existing systems, as was also clear from the schengen evaluations. the eurodac reform is about to be completed. the reform of the schengen information system, for which i had the honour of being your rapporteur, has just been completed. with the reform of the vis, for which i shall also have the honour of being the rapporteur for this parliament, we shall close this cycle of reforms. i am of course critical of the method used and the legislative hurry in this area, which is the result of the commission's excessive reactivity to requests from the member states. despite all this, the work carried out by the rapporteur, mrs kinga gál, was remarkable. the compromise reached reflects the majority position of this parliament. but let us be clear: the development and implementation of this system will raise numerous challenges, including meeting budgeted costs. the scrutiny of this system, as of the whole package of information systems, will have to be rigorous.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and all the other members, first of all the commission and the commissioner on the proposal they have put forward, a positive proposal with clear priorities, and also to congratulate the rapporteur, mr viotti, and all the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular the rapporteur for the european people's party, ms monika hohlmeier, on all the work they have done, which is excellent work and which he too appreciates even more highly, the commission's proposal, which is already a good one. the budget of the european union is a small budget, it corresponds to about 1% of the gross domestic product of the european union, but being small it has a significant added value and a very positive reflection on the life of every citizen of the european union. it contributes to peace, it contributes to solidarity, to investment, to territorial cohesion; i am absolutely convinced that if this budget were higher, we would have fewer problems in the european union and, on the other hand, we would have better dealt with the challenges and be able to overcome them more easily. youth must be a priority for the european union and the budget must be adequate. erasmus + is a very important programme, which contributes to training, to mobility, which also contributes to sport in the european union, even though these are national competences. we must focus on entrepreneurship, research and innovation, without ever forgetting small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers, support for rural development, territorial cohesion, and a european union in this way, with solidarity at home, also has the obligation to pursue external solidarity, and this is also one of the values we have, and by the way, not everyone says so, we are the world's largest donors and we must continue not only to preach but also to practice solidarity.
mr president, first of all, we stand in solidarity with the struggle of interpreters. we are currently discussing a proposal for the future multiannual financial framework, but it has cuts in cohesion and the common agricultural policy. it should be said that the current framework also had significant cuts compared to the previous framework and therefore the current framework, and in particular the 2019 budget, naturally reflects these cuts and reflects the scarcity of resources that have been allocated in particular to cohesion, that is, a framework that has clearly insufficient means to counteract what is a generalised framework of divergence. it is also important to say that this divergence was and is a consequence of the ruthless application of austerity policies and therefore what is required from this budget is that it should in fact make a decisive contribution to cohesion in order to compensate for the losses that have been created and caused by the austerity policies that have severely affected countries such as portugal.
mr president, madam high representative, i would first like to greet the mayor of chisinau who is here today (i do not know where he is). the municipal elections in chișinău, balti, were seen as a test for the moldovan parliamentary elections next november. the supreme court's invalidation of the victory of the pro-european candidate andrei năstase in chișinău has generated accusations of democratic party interference in the judicial system, triggered a wave of protests in the capital and further eroded the credibility of the democratic rules of the game, which were already shaken in 2017 when the proportional system was replaced by a mixed system, which clearly benefits the ruling parties and discriminates against the smaller political forces and without a parliamentary seat. ladies and gentlemen, transparency, impartiality and respect for the results of electoral processes are an integral part of the democratic tradition of europe and the european union, which must continue its efforts to achieve political association and economic integration, including macrofinancial assistance, in full respect of these principles and in the effective implementation of the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, as provided for in the association agreement with moldova.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, somalia has been, as we know, a country plagued by violence for too long, violence in all its forms, with various sources and various actors, some state and some non-state, which affects the population, either directly or indirectly, through factional conflicts and territorial disputes, and which does not spare children. it is well known that violence everywhere has the potential to spark further violence and in recent years somalia has also had to endure terrorist attacks by the al-shabaab militia, a metastasis of al-qaeda. although the somali government has taken some steps towards institutional and electoral normalisation, with the support of the international community, and has held free elections in 17, the truth is that human, political and civil rights continue to be systematically violated on a scale with few parallels in the rest of the world. somalia is today a disorganized state and, as long as it is, it will be difficult to stop the violence and misery that make life hell for its inhabitants. the eu has provided significant financial assistance, but it must redouble its efforts to stabilise and restructure the country, which also means calling on and holding accountable some arab countries which have contributed to sharpening the political conflict with their conflicting interests.
mr president, for two decades, civil war has ravaged somalia. the continued efforts of the international community to support peace efforts have had little or no result, with clan militias, al-shabaab and other terrorist groups continuing to commit terrorist attacks against the somali government and against civilians indiscriminately with impunity. but if it is true that somalis have been suffering from the increase in criminal and terrorist actions by these militias and groups, it is also unfortunately true that the abuses inflicted on the somali people are also inflicted by the somali authorities, whether through the rape and abuse of hundreds of children detained by the somali government for their alleged terrorist activities, or through the limitation of freedom of expression, assembly and association, fundamental pillars of any democracy. madam high representative, respect for human rights, freedom of expression, assembly and association as fundamental pillars of the european union obliges it, in its joint strategy with africa, to impose a strict agenda for the defence of human rights as a precondition for any financial assistance.
mr president, a point of order under rule 158 of the rules of procedure. first of all, i would like to express our solidarity with the just struggle of interpreters and i would like to tell you, mr president, that at the time of this vote the text is not available. (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, in writing. – :commission statement “the commission regrets that on several points, the co-legislators have decided to deviate from the joint statement of the european parliament, the council of the eu and the european commission on decentralised agencies, without providing the necessary justification. this relates in particular to deviations from the procedure for appointing and dismissing the executive director of eu-lisa, for which no justification was given and which risk affecting the autonomy of the agency, and for automatically extending the executive director's mandate. the commission also regrets the deviation from the joint statement with regard to the process for conducting an overall evaluation of the agency, which could be a way to interfere with the independence of the commission in conducting this evaluation. the commission will consult the management board as part of its general stakeholder consultation activities. the commission will assess the impact of those deviations on the functioning of the agency at the appropriate opportunity. they should not be considered as a precedent for other agencies.”
i would like to point out an error in the translation and to make it clear that in amendment no 26 we are obviously seeking to reinstate the posei fisheries scheme and not to replace it, as the translation erroneously states.
mr president, this is indeed a very serious matter because we need proper representation from the council as an institution, as is foreseen for all the other topics of this session. so we need to have a clear reply from the austrian presidency on whether the presidency will be physically present, that is the first question. secondly, if the president is supposed to take the floor, as it is you, on behalf of the council, stating the principles of the european union which should apply in this case. we need an absolutely clear answer from the president.
i would like to congratulate the union on its investment in strengthening the european solidarity corps programme, which is open to all young people in europe. this programme will enable young europeans to support communities in need through volunteering, traineeships or employment. in a time of uncertainty, with populist and xenophobic rhetoric within our borders, the commitment to a european solidarity corps is fundamental to counteracting this return to a past that should shame us all. these initiatives are what consolidate european citizenship and inspire young people to believe in this project. we are now giving them what they most deserve: on the one hand, a job opportunity and, on the other, we are reinforcing in them what many fear, the love of europe, the love of the other realised by volunteering. we know that one in four young europeans has taken part in a voluntary activity in the last two months, which is a good indication of the spirit of fraternity in our youth. and i am particularly pleased to know that my country, portugal, is the third country in the union with the most candidates for the european solidarity corps. strengthen solidarity and focus on the future, i.e. on youth. it will be they, young people from all over europe, who will make solid what seems to be a helpless and threatened project. i say "seems" because the desire for freedom is stronger than the walls and prisons that have been erected. and it will be they, the young, who will bring them down. helping others is what defines us as men, but also as europeans. i would like to welcome the young people of europe.
mr prime minister, first of all my sympathy goes out to the greek people for the victims of the fires. as a portuguese, i know very well the pain you are going through. secondly, you say, mr prime minister, that you don't know why greece has had three bailouts. it's easy, because in 2015, the tsipras/varoufakis alliance undo for eight, nine, ten months, all the work that the greek government had done until then. that's why things went wrong. and now let me tell you this: i just wanted to know if the prime minister has any ideas - why he didn't present them here - for the future of the eurozone and for immigration policy. we were hoping that greece would make this contribution here, but it has only come to talk about change. we know that there are changes, even our eurogroup president, mr centeno, came to welcome the exit of greece and the whole austerity programme, while in portugal he criticised a much more successful programme. we had much more success at the beginning and he came to criticize, and mr. tsipras is the same thing, he was against all the programs, but he implemented a much tougher program than those that had his previous rulers.
mr president, i would like to express my full solidarity and to thank those who remarked how the neoliberal recipe of unaccountable technocratic bodies such as the troika and the eurogroup increased poverty, unemployment and social inequalities in greece and elsewhere in europe. what, then, is to be said about the loss of control by greece and the european union of critical strategic infrastructures, such as piraeus port and the telecommunications and energy networks which greece had to sell to china as a result of the privatisation frenzy imposed by the neoliberal tracker programmes? how are greece and the eu to overcome such a strategic loss of control, which places in question our collective security?
mr president, i have supported this report, and i want to congratulate mrs zhitnyansky on the exceptionally good material. the report does not suggest that we should adopt any new european legislation quickly, but it does seek to highlight concrete ways in which member states can make life easier for workers who are trying to get back on the job after an accident. i would like to emphasize here that i believe that the basis is a matter of national law and that we should therefore call on the individual member states to make their labour law sufficiently flexible and sufficiently capable of involving in the labour process a person who, after illness, wants to return to work and at a certain stage is not yet able to work in the original employment under the original conditions as he worked before the illness. it is good that the report lists a number of specific measures and i think that it can be a good guide for individual member states.
mr president, ten years after the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, i believe it is time to take stock of what has been done in terms of the supervision and regulation of the financial system and in relation to third countries. unfortunately, we have to admit that little or no progress has been made. it is symptomatic that it has not been possible to reach consensus on the creation of a single resolution fund which is sufficiently well endowed and which can, in fact, credibly correspond to the promises made that taxpayers' money would never be used to recapitalise the failing banks and, as regards supervision, there are pseudo rules which are only intended to make up the balance sheet of banks whose leverage ratio remains very high. no progress has been made in separating retail banking from investment banking, shadow banking continues to grow without any regulation. this proves two things: firstly, that political power is still held by the financial lobbies and, secondly, that only public control of banking will allow the financial system to be aligned with the development imperatives of countries.
mr president, we do not deny the importance of interreg and of developing cross-border regions, as well as of promoting the permeability of these borders themselves. now, obviously this debate is a little theoretical because if you look at these inland regions, as they exist in portugal, you will see territories that are deeply depressed because of the restrictive policies of the european union and, in this sense, we are questioning the common agricultural policy. it was 300,000 farms that disappeared, most of them inland. what about the austerity policies that have led to the closure of thousands of public services, many of them inland, and so what we will say is that interreg makes sense, but for it to make sense, there have to be people in these territories and for people to stay inland, public development policies are needed that break with the fundamental guidelines of the european union and its constraints.
we are against these structural reforms because they are clearly linked to the economic governance of the euro, the european semester, the reform programmes and, of course, the recommendations by countries which seek to link these structural reforms to the neoliberal agenda of the european union. when we talk about structural reforms, the portuguese people are clearly aware of what we are talking about, deregulation of labour laws, privatisation of public services and social functions of the state. what portugal needs are not these structural reforms, what portugal needs are policies to strengthen and modernise public services and to support productive activities. but of course, this requires breaking away from the european union, the euro and its constraints.
mr president, 2017 has marked the end of the silence of victims of gender-based violence. the latest scandals have brought much-needed and much-needed attention to situations in workplaces where people, mostly men, abuse their positions of power. the latest eu effort thus recognises that the 2006 gender equality directive is not sufficient to address the latest dynamics at play - namely the evolution of violence in public, virtual, open spaces - violence that is gratuitous, vile and without blame. this dossier represents a significant step towards improving working conditions for women, but i understand that there is still much to be done. violence against women must be criminalised in all member states in order to ensure a concerted response mechanism capable of tackling one of the main causes of gender inequality. i understand that there must be zero tolerance for this kind of behaviour and that sanctions must be applied to the perpetrators. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i abstained in the final vote on this report because i believe that some aspects of the transparent and responsible management of the natural resources of the developing countries have not been properly addressed here. however, i voted in favour of the special category, that is, article by article, because the problem of deforestation has a global environmental impact and is now responsible for 11% of greenhouse gas emissions. i therefore believe that the european union has a key role to play in establishing trade rules so that it does not condone the environmental barbarism committed in the name of business. unfortunately, the unregulated commercial exploitation of the forest has had a devastating effect on both biodiversity and the lack of fire protection in areas reforested under monoculture. i am concerned that poor forest management and weak enforcement of legislation on a global scale leave this resource vulnerable to corruption, fraud and organized regime.
in writing. we strongly denounce and condemn the attacks on democracy, social rights, fundamental freedoms and guarantees of citizens in hungary. we express our solidarity with all those in hungary who resist and fight against these attacks. it is important to understand the causes of the rise of the far right and fascism in hungary, as in other european countries. understand to fight. this is an inseparable reality from the path traveled by the eu. inseparable from its policies and their consequences, particularly in the social field. inseparable from the anti-democratic deepening of capitalist integration. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. we do not recognise the eu's authority or legitimacy to take the role of judge or even benchmark in matters of democracy and human rights. we have not forgotten the consequences of the troika's intervention in portugal, which trampled on the constitutional order and the set of rights, freedoms and guarantees contained in it. we have not forgotten the xenophobic, racist and exploitative character of the eu's migration policies. we have not forgotten the promotion and support given to fascist forces in ukraine. we have not forgotten the military aggressions against sovereign states in violation of international law. none of this can be ignored.
in writing. we would not be here if the commission had already acted in line with the 2013 tavares report and immediately activated article 7, thus sending a deterrent signal to other governments with a willingness to question european values and principles and the solidarity that should be the foundation of this union. orbán's government does not protect hungary, it is a disgrace, as the sargentini report details: in addition to corruption, discrimination against roma, assaults on media pluralism, the independence of the judiciary and academia, it has crossed a threshold of inhumanity in its campaign of hatred against refugees and migrants by denying them food. the orbán government holds hungary hostage and serves the strategy of putin and the nazi, racist, anti-semitic and xenophobic far right to challenge and destroy the european union. the european parliament must unite. this is the moment of truth for the epp: its members must take responsibility, vote in conscience, and stop supporting orbán and fidesz.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's proposal, with the amendments adopted by the juri committee, is a positive one, because it strikes a healthy balance between the rights of intellectual creators and the rights of users, in particular the right of expression. we cannot accept that highly profitable businesses have been set up based on the free supply of intellectual creations of others, without respect for the rights of their authors. press publishers who invest in the production of quality, free and independent information cannot be reduced to the role of free content providers to the large platforms that have emerged on the internet. the aim is to extend to the internet the protection afforded by law to intellectual property in general outside the digital space. in short, it is a question of choosing between the defence of european culture and the protection of huge profits.
in writing. we advocate that legislation be enacted, in an unequivocal and precise way, to oblige authors, creators, artists, interpreters, journalists, all of them, to receive a fair remuneration for the use of their works, their work. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it is against these big companies that authors should be protected and not against the public, the users. this fair remuneration is not and should not be incompatible with the widest possible dissemination of the works. on the contrary, i did. nor should it justify perverse solutions involving hyper-surveillance or digital censorship. we are in favour of the democratization of culture, the freedom to create and enjoy culture, multilingualism and cultural diversity. we reject the submission of culture to the strict logic of the market. these are the principles which guide our position in this debate, including in the amendments we have tabled. in view of the complexity of the issues at stake, this is unlikely to be a closed issue in tomorrow's vote.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we support and appreciate your position, mrs mogherini, and your initiatives, in particular the convening of this panel of experts to start a conversation at a level that is not only technical but also political. we really want more in this resolution which is supported by several political factions in this parliament: we want to move towards a binding common position which clearly prohibits the development of weapons, of lethal autonomous weapons systems, without human intervention, and therefore based on so-called artificial intelligence. this is as much a priority as we want to have a single, clear position at the next meeting of the high contracting parties to the convention on certain conventional weapons to be held in november in geneva, where obviously you, your services, must speak for the whole union. and it is very important, indeed, that this message be clear to all sectors, to industry, to science, to technology, to the civil, military, security and political establishments. it is that, in fact, these types of weapons without human intervention are not acceptable, they can jeopardise the future of humanity and this conversation must reach in particular those member states which have been reluctant to embark on a concerted process at european level, namely the united kingdom and france, which have the project, respectively the tiranis project and the neuron project which, obviously, should be politically controlled at european level by the european external action service.
madam president, madam vice-president, i wanted to make clear what i believe is the essential point in the present relations between the european union and the united states, and the essential point is this: we cannot look at the strategic partnership and the community of values that we have with the united states as a function of leadership that is occasional leadership, and therefore we must continue to make every effort to keep the transatlantic relationship close no matter how much the trump administration makes every effort to get us to change that orientation. of course, we will have to respond whenever there is an attack, but it is absolutely necessary that we are aware that after trump the relationship with the united states remains as a fundamental pillar, not only for our security and for our defence, but i am convinced, for global progress, not only in the economy, but also in the values of democracy and respect for human rights.
madam president, the european union has a strategic interest in relations with china and for this reason it must engage with beijing on all fronts, from global security to reciprocity in trade relations, climate agreements to sustainable development policies, data protection, cybersecurity, synthetic drugs and other forms of organised crime coming from or passing through china. a strategic relationship that is even more crucial when trump's united states is a factor of dangerous questioning of multilateralism and of international destabilization. but this strategic relationship must seek to build synergies, in which we do not expect china to act in accordance with its obligations from the outset as a permanent member of the security council, a member of the wto and on the basis of agreements with the union. and for that we, the european union, cannot in any way refrain from talking about human rights, from making beijing see that it is a shot in the foot, counterproductive, that the internal repression of human rights activists, trade unionists, the uighur, tibetan, christian, falun gong, whatever minorities, is unacceptable. the credibility of china as a global power is measured by its influence or the fears it inspires, first in its own region, that is to say, in the korean peninsula, taiwan and the south seas, and then globally. but to have this win-win relationship, as mrs mogherini says, we have to know what our strategic interests are as the european union, we have to be able to assert our strategic autonomy. it has not been careful when these last years of neoliberal policies have led to a number of critical companies and sectors in the european union itself and in the member states being controlled by the chinese communist party. in the last ten years, china has invested over $318 billion in assets in europe and today controls critical infrastructure, ports, energy networks, telecommunications, even defense and security technology companies in greece, my country, portugal, and other member states. so while we do not assume that this has to stop and the commission has woken up, it has woken up late, but it has woken up, what i see is that the member states have not yet woken up and there are many who continue to live in a mercantilist illusion with regard to china.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr corrao, and the other shadow members on the progress made in this negotiation under the bulgarian presidency on a matter which should have been a priority for european governments. it is about combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism. it should be, but it is not, because, while there has undoubtedly been some progress, as has already been said, we have also seen member states reject important recommendations of this parliament, for example on the extension of the freezing and confiscation of property as proceeds of crime, on the death of the perpetrator or suspect, or on reaching the limitation period, or on the criminalisation of negligence, or, moreover, on aggravating circumstances for politically exposed persons. this was shamefully rejected by the member states. finally, i have come out of this negotiation, another on this subject, increasingly convinced that some member states do not want to fight money laundering and the financing of terrorism. they just want to pretend they do.
madam president, the president of the european commission has just presented us with a forward-looking agenda and an agenda presented by a true european politician. it is indeed true that the time for european sovereignty has come, and it has come at the forefront of the response to climate change, the digital revolution, trade, the need to manage migration differently. but why isn't this agenda moving forward? this agenda is not moving forward because we have forces from the past arguing that it is better to protect citizens only beyond national borders. this is a complete illusion because it is not possible today to protect citizens on the basis of national policies alone, solutions are needed at european level. but the real reason this agenda is not moving forward is that we have forces of the status quo, conservatives, who are resisting these european-scale solutions being truly implemented. for these forces of the status quo, in the matter of migration, it is enough to have an organized european border, but the progressive forces have to overcome this blockade because, in fact, it is not enough. we need a real partnership with africa, we need a european asylum system and we need to be up to the task when we take in refugees and we need to give them protection. the forces of the status quo think it's a good thing that we've had a resurgence in employment in europe and in investment, but the progressive forces want more because we need investment on a much larger scale to drive the energy transition and to drive the digital revolution in a good way. now, here we have a huge blockage that has to do with the reform of the euro zone. mr weber is pleased with where we are at but it is not possible because this euro zone continues to produce divergences until it has a functioning budgetary capacity. and then the conservative forces think it's enough to have jobs. it's not enough. the quality of jobs must be based on a genuine social pillar guaranteeing a contract of employment and social protection for all european citizens, wherever they are. the blockade can therefore only be overcome when the progressive forces succeed in overcoming the forces of the status quo which have been blocking genuine european solutions.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i would first like to pay tribute to president juncker as a true european and indeed an example for us all in his european soul. and having said that, in your last speech on the union, i wanted to raise a point on which i was quite, i would say, disappointed with the vision that was presented here and which has to do with the next financial framework and the mff. the commission has put forward a proposal which increases the divergence, a bad proposal for the cohesion countries. how is it that estonia drops 24 percent and finland goes up 5 percent? how is it that croatia drops 6% and italy goes up 6%? the argument that some states have grown is a false argument. so they grow, they promote good policies, they promote prosperity and they are punished by european funds, even though they are way down, but way down from the states that are coming up. this is not fair, this is not the way forward for the next seven years, this is not a speech for the future and therefore the mff must be thoroughly reviewed and i am also concerned that the portuguese government is conformist - as, incidentally, we have seen here with maria joão rodrigues - which criticises the jobs created because they are low, that is what is happening in portugal, there are jobs created but low, that is the socialist policy and that is the policy we want to condemn. and now, a final question about the solidarity fund which was applied to portugal for the fires. it must be said that the portuguese government has used more than half of the fund for bureaucratic structures and not to repair the situation on the ground. this is very unfortunate and the commission should criticise it. the money was for victims and for the regions, it was not for the portuguese state apparatus. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr rangel, you are truly remarkable, you cannot resist the temptation to turn a european debate into a national debate. but as far as what i say is concerned, i think you have absolutely no authority to say what you have said, because you represent a government here which has buried employment in portugal in terms of quantity and quality. the portuguese socialist government is doing the exact opposite. so i think i should take back your words, i'm sorry.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i just wanted to say this: i spoke about the multiannual financial framework. i know that mrs maria joão rodrigues is not interested in this because the portuguese government negotiated badly, but i spoke of italy, i spoke of croatia, i spoke of finland and i spoke of estonia, i did not speak of portugal. and now, as regards employment, i will tell you this: it was the socrates government that sank it, leaving portugal bankrupt. and you're responsible for that, too. and we are. employment began to grow under the portuguese government. fortunately, mario centeno, in the video he made for greece, has already shown that he recognizes that the government of passos rabelho has done a great service to the country. that's what mario centeno came to recognize. it is a pity that he has a say in brussels and a say in lisbon. but i am here to talk about brussels and i trust mario centeno of brussels more than mario centeno of lisbon.
madam president, this debate has been an exercise in cynicism, propaganda and mystification. the logic of the commitment to defend the end of the unanimity rule, thus further strengthening the decision-making power of the major powers, was commended. the european sovereignty they speak of is the sovereignty of these powers, the power to establish and to dispose of and to impose their interests and the interests of their economic and financial groups. military expenditure associated with the defence fund has increased by more than twenty times, but mr juncker has the audacity to say that there is no militarization here. young people who are pushed into unemployment, underemployment or precariousness in life and work by the european union are given doses of reinforced propaganda. it is necessary to say that they are given the honour of being a mannequin to make up for their absence and thus a process of integration is under way which has run its course and has no solutions to the problems it creates, a process whose defeat is a condition for the construction of another europe, a europe of the workers and the peoples, a europe of peace and cooperation.
in writing. jean-claude juncker, in the context of a globally very appreciated intervention, stressed the need to continue along the path of concluding trade agreements with other regions of the world. that statement deserves my full agreement. what is already causing me deep concern is the fact that we are not moving resolutely towards the political and commercial agreement that we have been negotiating with mercosur for too many years. i believe that there will be no other group of countries which are closer to the eu culturally, politically, economically and socially. for a long time the responsibility for the delays in the negotiation process was laid on the shoulders of the latin american countries. but at the moment i think the biggest responsibilities lie with some european states and in some ways with the european commission itself. the european commissioner for agriculture has been acting more as an irish citizen and less as a european commissioner. the president of the commission should have seen that and acted accordingly. unfortunately, it has not yet done so, although i still expect it may do so. this trade agreement is of the greatest interest to both regions and there is no good reason why it should not be concluded in the shortest possible time.
president juncker's state of the union address presented an extensive letter of intent, which i generally agree with. i regret, however, that it comes only six months before the end of this parliamentary term. the strengthening of the coast and border guard and the revival of proposals for integrated border management are welcome. but i am alert to the need to do so in a way that is consistent with the necessary changes in the asylum and return system. i agree with the priorities for the end of the brexit negotiations, but i believe that safeguarding the rights of european citizens in the uk must be the first commitment. i support the ambition to strengthen the internationalisation of the euro, but i believe that we must deepen the reforms of the single currency in order to achieve economic and monetary union, promote more growth and employment and reduce public debt. i share the ambition to streamline the union's external policy by changing the decision-making process, particularly the majority system. i hope that the implementation of permanent structured cooperation will be achieved. i welcome the priority given to africa in the future of the union's external action.
in writing. the logic of compromise was praised in this debate, and the end of the unanimity rule was later advocated, thus further strengthening the decision-making power of the great powers. the 'european sovereignty' they speak of is the sovereignty of these powers, the power to set and dispose of, and to impose their interests and the interests of their economic and financial groups. military expenditure associated with the defence fund increases by more than 20 times, but mr juncker has the audacity to say that there is no militarization here. young people - who are being pushed into unemployment, underemployment and precariousness in work and life by the policies of the european union - are being fed propaganda in heightened doses. "they give you the honor of a mannequin, to make up for your absence". the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the failure of this process is a condition for the construction of another europe, of the workers and peoples, of peace and cooperation.
the last year of the current european commission's term of office cannot be a transition or end-of-cycle year. it must be a year of action and strong motivation to strengthen and support all those who are striving for a more united, more ambitious and closer european union, and to weaken all those who promote anti-democratic populism to weaken the european project. this action involves creating the conditions for the adoption of a multiannual financial framework which promotes competitiveness, convergence and cohesion. it also means taking bold action to tackle the global challenges facing the european union such as trade war, security and defence, and protection against new technological risks. finally, it implies the ability to respond to the aspirations of european citizens by defining a policy of solidarity and transparency in the management of migration, by promoting the skills needed to create more and better jobs in the emerging society and by completing economic and monetary union in order to prevent new financial crises such as the one that followed the subprime crisis in the united states of america.
mr president, we had a great opportunity today to protect the rights of authors, creators, artists, journalists, scientists, but unfortunately that is not what happened. not only has the vote we have just had reduced their rights - in the case of journalists who were protected in the amendments they ended up not being protected, but the companies that own the securities. in the case of creators, their protection has been reduced and is now in the hands of industry, but, more seriously than that - and this is already quite serious - we have a situation where we already had a previous proposal with the introduction of censorship mechanisms and filters and these censorship mechanisms and filters have been aggravated by today's vote. i believe that we have opened a pandora's box, an attack on democracy, and that these filters and censorship mechanisms will turn against the very people who defended this directive. it is an attack on democracy, as i said, and it will unfortunately be used in many other ways, as in the next commission communication on combating radicalism in europe. it is not a fight against radicalism, it is a reduction of democracy. i'm sad this house approves of censorship.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because there is an urgent need for balanced and fair regulation of this sector. it seems we're opening a gap between right and wrong. but this directive is not about that at all. it is about recognising the challenges of the digital single market that require the appropriate legislative adaptation and it is about responsible policy. the internet has opened up possibilities in the extent, depth and speed with which we share information, but with it we have been trampling on copyright. digital media can faithfully reproduce audiovisual creations and achieve their infinite dissemination without the proper remuneration of the artists. the copy/paste culture allows for the plagiarism of text and images without copyright references for commercial purposes, which means that someone has been profiting with impunity from the work of others and this has to stop. we may not yet have solved the problem of the sustainability of music and the press in the digital age, but this directive will certainly go a long way towards correcting this injustice. i would like to stress that this directive is not about people's right to information, to culture, and it is not about restricting freedom of expression. this directive is about the fairness required to ensure that creators are properly remunerated and that cultural and information workers are properly recognised.
madam president, the words of laurence fink, ceo of blackrock, when he opened the new year of the german stock exchange in 2017, make it clear what is coming. it said 'workers tend to be too dependent on state pensions'. two years earlier, the same company had recommended to the european union the creation of a crossborder pension fund on its territory. june 2016: the date on which commissioner dombrowskis announced the commission's proposal to create a european personal pension scheme. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. even before any decision on this proposal is taken, blackrock is already making its way into european pension funds by running a pilot project set up by the currency commissioner and handed over to the us multinational. if masks ever had them, they have fallen, leaving the interests of those whom the european commission serves quite exposed. but this is not a debate about blackrock, nor about the commissioners, it is a debate about the future of pensions and the policy options that the european union seeks to impose to the detriment of the people and the workers. the creation of a new pan-european pension product responds to a longstanding claim by large investment funds to appropriate workers' contributions to public social security, integrating the world bank's 'second pillar' growth promotion model. this is a despicable assault on workers' pensions by the european union, which is trying to take over their earnings and liquidate the public and universal social security system with the support of the right and social democracy. the commission's proposal is not surprising, since it is the same group that, in its country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester, insists on the theorising of the unsustainability of public pension systems and the inevitable replacement of redistributive issues by capitalisation systems. the implementation of these european union recommendations, together with the right-wing and austerity policies followed in recent decades by those who have ruled countries such as portugal, have resulted in an accelerated process of weakening public social security, with obvious and harmful consequences: the attack on the right to social protection, the introduction of measures that erode the basis for financing the systems, particularly harming the elderly, unemployed workers and beneficiaries of non-contributory social benefits. this is a reality aggravated by the policies of low wages and high job insecurity, the destruction of national productive capacity, the increase in unemployment, with inevitable reductions in contributions made and the consequent increase in poverty and social exclusion. the increase in the retirement age, proposed by the european commission, is added. they are inciting a confrontation between generations with one single aim: to privatise the pension systems and to usurp the income of the workers, serving them as a handshake to the vultures of the pension funds, making a clean slate of the brutal social consequences of the bankruptcy of these funds. the needs of workers and people, as opposed to the interests of the large economic and financial groups, require an obvious answer: the defence of a public, universal and solidarity-based social security system as an irreplaceable instrument for promoting social justice in the distribution of income, which must be consolidated by strengthening public systems with contributory financing based on the principles of solidarity between generations and a redistributive logic, a path incompatible with your integration project which cannot be separated from the fight against unemployment and precariousness, the creation of jobs with rights and the effective valorization of wages, the fight against tax evasion and the rejection of the misuse of the revenue from the tax system for other purposes. public and universal social security must serve the interests, well-being and happiness of workers and peoples. its defence and strengthening are fundamental to building a more just and united society in another europe based on progress and social convergence.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the s&d group welcomes clearly the debate on the pension system in plenary. this is indeed a very important part of the welfare system and this is now the right time for us to design a welfare system for the 21st century. yes, we know that our pension systems are confronted with difficult challenges because of ageing and because the poverty we still have among pensioners is not being reduced. something needs to be addressed because we cannot have poverty involved in the pension system. this is even more acute if we have in mind the future of younger generations because, for the sake of fairness, we need to make sure that young generations have the same chances to count on an adequate pension when they need it. how could we address this? first of all, let me make the point that the best way to have a sustainable pension system is to have a very high employment rate and good quality jobs. then, let me also underline, in the middle of the discussion about the outcomes of migration, that migration, if it is properly managed, can make a positive contribution to the sustainability of the pension system. last but not least, we need to consider new ways to finance the system, notably by corporate taxation and by the so-called digital tax, because a new source of tax is there. let me make the point that the european social model involves a pension system based basically in a public pillar and the pensions system should be available for everyone. this is a key ingredient, even in the digital economy. so this is our main point for the architecture.
madam president, a privileged instrument for the realisation of the ethical-political imperative of solidarity is the existence of a pension system which guarantees dignified conditions in old age. this pension system must be supported first and foremost by the beneficiary himself, through the deductions made throughout his lifetime, but it must also be supported by the contributions and taxes of those who are now at the height of their contributory capacity. this effort should not be seen as a generosity of the present generations, but rather as a payment of a debt of gratitude to our elders. they paid with their taxes and contributions for the schools where we were educated free of charge as children, teenagers and young people, as well as for the health services from which we all benefit. the least we can do today is to make an effort to ensure that they have the economic conditions to end their lives with dignity. on the other hand, a public pension system is not, in itself, better than a private one. it all depends on the effectiveness of the control mechanisms that can be exercised over who manages the money available. it all depends, after all, on the ability to prevent corruption or abuse of power. unfortunately, there are states, even within the european union, which do not set a good example in the management of pension systems.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been redefining the rights to privacy and the protection of personal data in europe. the most visible aspect of this change is the general data protection regulation. with its entry into force this year, we are better protecting european citizens, empowering the union to face the challenges of the future and leading the world in changing to better protect them. cases such as facebook and cambridge analytica make it clear that we were right, but that regulation is only one of the four great pillars of data protection in europe, as has already been mentioned by several speakers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the union and all its bodies must of course set an example, which is why aligning the union's rights and duties with the general data protection regulation was imperative. that's what we do with this new instrument. of course, in very specific cases, such as europol, the data processed need a specific regime, but let us not take the whole thing for granted. this new instrument will undoubtedly protect personal data held by european union bodies, including this parliament, in the same way. the data protection reform in europe will be completed and we will once again reaffirm europe's leadership in the world in defending these fundamental rights. i would like to congratulate mrs ernst on her excellent work.
mr president, the excessive production of waste and waste is inseparable from the current patterns of production and consumption. challenging the excessive production of waste and waste, including single-use plastics, necessarily requires challenging these production and consumption models. it demands that we question, in the final analysis, a system, capitalism, which is based on an irrational and unsustainable relationship between man and nature. the fight against this irrationality does not exclude measures which, although seemingly small, can have a great scope and impact. the only thing that's not free is the big measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. in this area too, a regulatory approach should be given priority over a market approach, and reuse and recycling, for example in packaging, should be promoted alongside waste reduction. that was the sense of an opinion of the committee on industry for which you were rapporteur. finally, scientific research and technological development also play an important role in the search for more sustainable alternatives to current materials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the plastics obtained from organic polymers were a major breakthrough in chemical engineering in the last century, providing an opportunity for the design of new products because of their malleability, hardness, low cost and, above all, their durability. but if low cost has determined mass production and disposable use, their durability has determined their perpetuation in our seas and oceans. the truth is that, taken together, these characteristics have promoted the environmental disaster that we now recognize and that is so well exposed in this report. the fact is that because of human irresponsibility in the use and disposal of plastic material, we are now experiencing the global drama of ocean pollution with impacts on biodiversity that add to the already difficult consequences of climate change. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, which will enable us to show with this directive that europe is taking a responsible position to lead the world in this mission of not making an unsustainable situation worse. but that's not enough. and it's not enough because we can't be the only europeans to be concerned about our fishing gear, to use alternatives to single-use plastics, to recycle and to think about eco-design. this issue must be kept on the global agenda of climate diplomacy and more ambitious action in europe's trade relations with third countries must be taken immediately. it is also not enough to have the courage to outline an ambitious strategy and then postpone the concrete measures to pursue it. ladies and gentlemen, what is needed is a change in the behaviour of civil society and the business community must be a partner in this. we need, in this joint effort with the commission and the member states, to make industries part of the solution and to make the modernisation of the production sector more environmentally conscious.
madam president, the debate on the problem of plastics and their impact on the environment is a global problem, but one that the european union has been leading. this fight is not against plastics. what we want to tackle is how they are used and what happens when they are no longer useful. i welcome the commission's proposals to tackle this issue, to which this parliament has been making a decisive contribution. i've been hosting a number of debates on the topic, in particular the impact on the oceans and ways to circumvent it. i agree with the rapporteurs that this issue can only be solved in a comprehensive way and that the circular economy of plastics is an important part of the problem which must be encouraged. to prevent plastics from reaching the sea is to prevent them from reaching our table. so improving the destination of used plastics is one way to reduce that impact.
madam president, commissioner, the definition of one health has expanded the concept of human health to include other factors which influence it, such as animal health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the fact is that it has become imperative to stop the rampant use of antibiotics introduced by the intensification of animal husbandry practices. however, while antibiotics are important in ensuring food security, we cannot let options for reducing production costs come at the expense of our health future. as far as human health is concerned, it seems that prevention really is the best medicine. i am convinced that the increased use of vaccines envisaged in the report is all the more timely and i would therefore like to remind you of the number of deaths that could have been prevented in europe this year if it had not been for the anti-science campaign that has discredited vaccines as an essential public health tool. while health systems in the member states face enormous funding challenges, we must continue to invest in rapid diagnostic technologies and research into new antibiotics, especially those that function as last-line therapies to be used only in extreme cases. but in order to have these antibiotics, we're going to have to test new forms of producer compensation that are not based on the volume of drug sales. i'd like to conclude by saying that antimicrobial resistance is a public health issue that civil society needs to be aware of and it's a global issue, and without wanting to create apocalyptic scenarios, today's regulations could prevent a global pandemic of unimaginable impact and scale.
mr president, commissioner, antimicrobial resistance is one of the great challenges of our time and a global threat. it is important to control diseases without compromising the effectiveness of prophylactic means. ultimately, it is important to preserve the capacity to treat disease itself, both in animals and in humans. i would stress that the pollution of water and soil by antibiotics for human and veterinary use is a growing problem for the environment itself and that special attention should be paid to this. i would like to emphasise the importance of member states' commitment to implementing national action plans and creating appropriate incentives to achieve this objective. this effort cannot be dissociated from international cooperation and should be encouraged. it seems to me to be the only possible approach, and it is equally fundamental in terms of research and development.
mr president, madam high representative, following the results of the municipal elections in arua, several opponents were arrested and tortured, including the popular musician and now elected mp bobi wine, known as the chairman of the ghetto. this wave of arrests has led to protests across the country, which have been violently repressed by security agents, whose brutal actions remain unpunished and which urgently need to be investigated. today we are once again discussing the situation of fundamental freedoms in uganda, whose regime continues to allow atrocities against its people, including the ritual murder of children and the persecution of the disabled and homosexuals. the european union must condemn in the strongest terms the intensification of repression in uganda and demand the immediate release of all imprisoned opposition figures. it must, in its capacity as a donor of development aid programmes, increase pressure on the regime of president yoweri museveni to honour its commitments under international law regarding freedom of expression, association and assembly and respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights.
mr president, madam high representative, reuters journalists wa lone and kyaw soe oo, who were investigating the murder of ten rohingya muslim men and boys discovered in a mass grave in the village of inn din in rakhine state, were arrested last december and have now been sentenced to seven years in prison on charges of violating myanmar's archaic official secrets act. dear colleagues, the only crime of these two brave journalists - named in the category of international journalists of the year by one world media - was to do their job, to investigate the atrocities committed after the burmese army offensive in inn din in august 2017, which caused the flight of 700,000 people to bangladesh, and to denounce the war crimes committed in the name of an unacceptable ethical cleansing. madam high representative, i want to congratulate you on your difficult work on what is surely one of your biggest headaches, namely the dossier on myanmar, but the truth is that we are constantly introducing resolutions on that country in this parliament. it is now up to us, the representatives of the european people, to say that we are on the side of those who defend a free and independent press and those who condemn the manipulation of justice, crimes against humanity and the impunity of those who commit them.
mr president, madam high representative, thank you for your kind words to us earlier. after last year's cambodian supreme court dismissed the cnrp, the opposition party that won 44 percent of the vote in the 2013 elections, arrested its president and banned more than a hundred of its members from political activity, the 2018 elections for the senate and parliament were nothing more than a farce to allow prime minister hun sen's party, in power since 1985, to win all the seats in these two sovereign bodies and perpetuate itself in power. madam high representative, i have almost always praised your work, but i must say in the case of cambodia that the european union, cambodia's second largest trading partner, has been slow to react to the collapse of pluralism and democracy in that country and therefore cannot now refrain from applying individual sanctions to those responsible for this authoritarian drift and from continuing to maintain preferential trade agreements developed in the 'everything but arms' scheme with a regime that violates its international obligations on the civil, political and labour rights of its citizens, including the convention against torture.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mrs cabezón ruiz, on the excellent work she has done in elaborating the good proposal of the european commission. health promotion is a challenge that increasingly requires integrated and cross-cutting interventions. health expenditure accounts for 10% of the gross domestic product in the european union and expenditure on medicines for almost 1.5%. the increase in life expectancy puts enormous pressure on these numbers. it is excellent news, but it requires more management and it requires more cooperation. technological developments are a great opportunity to improve the functioning of the internal market, to make health spending more efficient and to provide better care for citizens. i am co-rapporteur on a resolution on this subject and i am advocating three fundamental principles. patient centrality needs to be safeguarded, privacy rights in the use of data need to be guaranteed and inclusion and increasingly universal access to these services need to be promoted. but it is also true that cross-border health data sharing is key to improving the potential of responses, on the assumption of qualifying all stakeholders, enhancing interoperability and systematically protecting sensitive data, which must be done with tools and mechanisms developed and provided by public health systems. the legislative proposal under discussion therefore contributes to the development of the digital single market, encourages innovation and research, promotes a european health information network and, above all, contributes, or can contribute, to improving the health care provided to citizens in a widespread and budget-sustainable way. so trace a path that we should follow.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. medicines take up a huge chunk of the health budget, but life-saving innovation comes at a cost. however, we cannot continue to pay exorbitant prices for a low therapeutic value-add. so i understand that health technology assessment needs to be optimized so that we have a smart investment in our health. the informed decision of healthcare professionals, patients and funders must be based on sound scientific arguments for the future sustainability of healthcare systems. the cooperation in the field of ats has to extrapolate the medicine as a technology and use other comparators such as surgeries and medical devices, and can also be a useful tool to assess the area of diagnosis, prevention, screening and health promotion programmes as well as the use of e-health tools. the integrated approach and the union's added value are unmissable opportunities in the field of rare diseases, paediatric treatments, advanced therapies and precision medicine. with this regulation, we will move towards an increasingly evidence-based medicine so that we do not have to pay more for false advances and to privilege true innovation in health.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, after a hasty ifrs 4 standard which left out the measurement of liabilities, this standard aims to close this gap by imposing standards which should be applied by the large insurance companies from 2021. this regulation is sensitive to companies, since the assessment of liabilities in insurance contracts, especially long-term contracts, will have an impact not only on the profit of insurers but also on the levels of capital required for prudent management to cope with any unforeseen event. it is no coincidence that the big lobbyists are already on the ground, criticizing the rule for the high costs of its implementation and its limited effects. they don't know what they're talking about. we naturally also have doubts about the capacity of these rules, which do not touch on the essential issue, namely the conflict between private interests and the interests of citizens.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. blockchain and distributed ledger technology is a promise that has been around for over a decade, but so far there's a lot of discussion about the infinite applications, and the ones that we know best are the applications in virtual currencies, for example, those in financial markets, and there what we've seen, in a way, is disastrous, fraud, extreme fluctuations of a safe haven for tax evasion and money laundering. blockchain and dlt, more than a significant technological innovation, are actually a social and organizational innovation because it's about dispensing with intermediaries, counterparties, and often even the state itself. now that we are thinking of applying to other sectors - such as energy, education and others that have already been mentioned here - i think we should also talk about the concerns and why we are asking for legislation and the need for legislation in this regard. how do we ensure transparency, how do we ensure data protection, how do we ensure regulation, if we want better public services? how can we have better public services and ensure that there is no elimination of what should be the purpose of those same public services? that is why legislation is needed to ensure that what happened in the financial system and with virtual currencies is not repeated in other sectors and in the promises that have existed for more than ten years. then yes, they can be a very useful tool for our society.
madam president, commissioner, blockchain technologies and progressive encryption applications are intended to increase trust, control and transparency in a set of processes that are increasingly complex and fundamental in the new digital society. but this impact is not automatic. the technological implications and their applications are not neutral and so we have a job to do. we need to ensure that new solutions based on digital innovation embody the values and civilizational principles that we have developed and share in the common european space. it is in this context that the questions put to the european commission by the rapporteur and my colleague eva kaili make perfect sense and require a thoughtful and rapid response. we need to be competitive on a global scale, also in these technologies, but this competitiveness cannot be achieved at any price. no, it's not true that it's all done. there's a lot of things we have to do. it must be developed within a framework of legal certainty and robustness in relation to the control of processes and the risks of misuse of power without proper legitimacy. the concept of a multi- and self-regulating process does not eliminate the risks of induced centralisation or bias. these risks exist and must be monitored and tackled proactively. data protection, cybersecurity, interoperability or fraud prevention are areas where the regulatory role and the role of ensuring multiple and transparent governance also have to be ensured by public authorities at their various levels. the dissemination of development protocols that promote decentralisation and transparent verification, the creation of the european observatory and the recently signed partnership are signs that we are moving in the right direction. a sense that allows the european union to be competitive and at the same time able to use these new platforms to promote social innovation in a decentralised, secure and in line with its values.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would first of all like to welcome this debate, because i think that this discussion could not be more timely, precisely at a time when we are discussing the legislative framework for the next multiannual financial framework and its policy instruments. just this weekend, at a conference in portugal, where i was involved in a more inland area with the same problems as those described here, what the citizens were most interested in was how the european union could adapt its cohesion policy to the effective and permanent territorial development of the territories we are talking about here today. the diagnosis is made in all its aspects and is well known to us. in fact, this diagnosis is summed up in the resolution. we must now act and do so as a union of peoples and states, but also through our member states, regions, local authorities or even with the help of international partners, as has recently happened using the world bank's technical assistance in pilot projects to help the less developed regions of the european union. i have already said - and i would like to repeat it - that in the path towards intra- and extra-regional convergence, within and beyond borders, both the urban agenda and support for these territories must always be two sides of the same coin, i.e. territorial development objectives supported by strategies for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for our cities and in particular for our medium-sized cities, for our regions, sub-regions and municipalities, must always take account of the specificities of the most central urban reality, the surrounding urban fabric and the most remote rural and outlying territories of these same centres. this seems obvious. we can also start from the most remote, rural or mountainous areas with low urban or demographic density in order to articulate or design specific policies for the development of these territories, involving the most remote urban centres, but with services or infrastructure that will inevitably be needed to implement functional and successful strategies. that is why this agenda must necessarily gain greater institutional visibility and also greater political visibility, and the example set by the initiative for the most deprived regions, the so-called lagging regions initiative, but now also called the catching-up regions initiative - by the way, a new name which i consider more fortunate - could be an important lever for this important agenda which we must urgently implement on the ground, and all for the sake of the equitable development of all our regions.
mr president, the minimum wage in portugal is one of the lowest in the european union, a reality that is not separated from the impositions of the troika and the right-wing policy, which has imposed the loss of income and the increase in poverty, and from the low-wage policies that the european union promotes. if the minimum wage is now fixed at 580 euros, this is inseparable from the struggle of portuguese workers and the rejection of right-wing policies. but it is not enough, its expression in the wage bill has been increasing and is already felt by a quarter of workers in portugal. low wages remain the predominant policy option and one of the causes of the enormous and glaring social inequalities, a reality that requires the increase of the minimum wage to 650 euros as early as january, a necessary contribution to the replacement of lost purchasing power within the framework of policies of general wage increases, both in the public and in the private sector.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president timmermans, first of all i would like to make it clear that the main issue to be dealt with at the next council will undoubtedly be brexit and that i do not think that we as the european union should react in a way that is, i would say, very hypersensitive and hyperactive to some of the provocations coming from the united kingdom and even from its government, as we saw yesterday with the statement by jeremy hunt, or from populist forces here in the european parliament and in the european union. i think we should have a constructive attitude. we must not make any argument for the united kingdom to say that we are blocking any negotiation process. firm in our principles, but open to cooperation. only in this way can we win this battle to reach an agreement with the united kingdom and eventually, if we do not, stand before the electorate and public opinion with the certainty that we have done everything so that there is no coup or a blockage in the negotiations. it is vital to have a constructive attitude. this does not mean giving up the four freedoms, it does not mean giving up defending a flexible and open border in ireland and therefore, without giving up any of our principles, we must be as phlegmatic as the british in times past have accustomed us to be.
madam president, the austrian presidency has launched its agenda under the motto ‘a europe which protects’, but we fear that the understanding of a europe which protects is being too limited. starting with refugees and migration, it seems that most of all we need to protect ourselves from a kind of invasion coming from refugees. this is completely out of the reality. we need to ensure a proper way to rescue people drowning in the sea. we need to have a real european asylum system. we need to start discussing a legal corridor for migration in europe and we need to have partnerships with the origin countries, which really helped these countries to provide a better life, for people to stay. this is the ambitious european policy we need to build up. but then let me underline that if the motto is really ‘a europe which protects’, the austrian presidency has a short time to deliver on key issues. the first one, i would say, is to protect fundamental rights and democracy, triggering article 7 in the polish and hungarian case. updating our law to protect us from cyber—manipulations. then we have the need to protect people when it comes to social rights, delivering on the european pillar of social rights. last but not least, we need to have the financial means and that’s why taxation, fair taxation, will be crucial to provide the means for us to sustain our welfare systems, our public services, but also the means to provide a community budget up to the level for the next years. own resources are on the plate, and overall this is the short list of issues where the austrian presidency should be able to deliver until the end of the semester.
madam president, the increasing spread of the rhetoric and concessions of the far right in the discourse and practice of the traditional right and of social democracy itself is clearly visible in the debate on migration. the concept of europe is strengthened, openly accepted and defended, by the explicit association between migration and security, the selective instrumental view of migration with the management of the immigrant workforce made solely in accordance with the interests and needs of big capital, the support for concentration camps in the vicinity of the european union, the convergence in the idea that the danger comes from outside to hide that the danger for workers and peoples is inside in the political action that each one carries out. if we add to all this the profound disregard for the sovereign rights of the people and the policies of social regression, we have the cultural breeding ground for the rise of the far right. some of those who hypocritically warn of the serpent's danger are the quickest caretakers of their eggs.
the motto of the austrian presidency is 'europe protects'. to give substance to this mobilizing idea, it is important to take measures that make citizens feel more protected at various levels, including access to social rights, employment, health, education, physical security and protection against new emerging environmental and digital risks. that's not what's been happening. the informal summit in salzburg once again conveyed an image of disunity and inability to respond to the major challenges facing the european union. the european council meeting on 18 and 19 october will deal with key issues, such as migration, security and external relations. to keep pace with the times, the council must move forward with concrete policies in areas such as the reform of the dublin agreement and the dynamism of partnerships for the control and humane management of migration. important steps must also be taken to ensure that the next european elections are not affected by digital mechanisms of instrumentalisation and manipulation.
mr president, the creation of a treaty legally binding multinational companies to respect for human rights is a longstanding aspiration of civil society worldwide dating back to the 1970s. this is due to the insufficiency of the rules voluntarily adopted by undertakings on the one hand and the difficulty of clearly determining the jurisdiction of the states in the case of undertakings carrying on their activities in third countries on the other. globalisation has made this system more complex by weakening traditional borders and encouraging the geographical mobility of firms. the potential negative effects of multinational activities are of particular concern to the most vulnerable and unprotected communities, such as indigenous and peasant communities. in 2014, the establishment of a un intergovernmental working group to draft a binding treaty proposal led by ecuador and south africa gave new impetus to this long-standing aspiration. the activities of this group were, however, met with considerable scepticism. the truth is that there has not been the commitment and enthusiasm that would be expected from a number of actors, including the countries of the european union. nevertheless, this initiative is beginning to bear fruit with a first draft treaty prepared by ecuador. the major challenge is that the treaty covers the multiple situations of potential negative human rights impact that arise from business activity indirectly, via its branches, subsidiaries and contractors. it is on this dimension that the european union must concentrate its efforts and its contributions. we are convinced that this treaty can take us to a new level in regulating globalisation, and can pave the way for a responsible and sustainable globalisation, starting with guarantees of access to justice and redress. the european union, therefore, in fidelity to the values which inspire it, must aspire to play a decisive and even a leading role in this respect. we must therefore call on all member states to overcome their divisions on this treaty and to make a joint effort to adopt it.
mr president, the cutting of us$ 300 million in funding to the un agency for assistance to palestine refugees is regrettable and represents a financial blow that calls into question primary health care, educational services and emergency aid to the more than 4 million palestinian refugees living in the gaza strip, the west bank, jordan, syria and lebanon. the arguments invoked by washington about the financial burden of us contributions to this un agency of 1.1 billion dollars in 2017 are intended to camouflage what constituted a politicization of humanitarian aid and are also shocking by the duality of criteria of a country that, in the same year, allocated almost 4 billion dollars for military aid to israel. for all this, i would like to congratulate high representative mogherini, both for her announcement of the increase in the union's financial contribution to this agency and for her continued political support for the two-state solution to heal the israeli-palestinian conflict, which is essential for security in the middle east and for peace in the world.
in writing. the us cutting of funding to unrwa is part of a wider move of explicit us support for israel's criminal policy against the palestinian population and against international law. this offensive by the us and israel is aimed at making the two-state solution to the palestinian question unfeasible, a solution which has been proclaimed for decades in un resolutions. it aims to impose by force a single state, of a confessional and racist nature, on practically the whole of the historical territory of palestine. in view of this situation, it is unacceptable that the european union, which says it respects human rights, should not call into question the association agreement with israel, which provides for the importation of products manufactured in the illegally occupied palestinian territories. it is also unacceptable that the eu is funding joint research programmes with israeli companies through the horizon 2020 programme, the results of which are subsequently used in war and torture against the palestinian people. the struggle of the palestinian people for the creation of a viable and sovereign state of palestine is just. its implementation implies that the major powers and the eu cease their explicit or implicit support for israel's genocidal policy.
mr president, it is the crimes of capitalism that impose barbarity. it is the military coalition led by saudi arabia and backed by the united states, the united kingdom and france that has been bombing civilian targets, killing hundreds of people and dozens of children, as in the attacks last august. it is the weapons produced in those countries and elsewhere in the european union that have killed some 16,000 people, two thirds of them civilians, and injured more than 55,000. yemenis are facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, with 8.4 million severely affected by famine, a situation made worse by saudi arabia's restrictions on importing food and fuel. it is these countries that are silencing the war crimes and repression within saudi arabia itself, masking that dark regime of a so-called modernization. it is time for the peoples to mobilize for peace, for an end to a gigantic crime against the yemeni people and against the cynicism of imperialism, the european union and its military powers.
mr president, we must achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and improve the quality of life of our citizens now. how the european institutions, national governments and the car industry deal with the emissions challenge will be a barometer of their ability to take technological and economic leadership in a sector that our competitors are hard at work to compete with. european industry must be an ally in the energy transition if it is to be globally competitive. it is not wise to set environmental objectives against the competitiveness of industry and its ability to maintain and create sustainable jobs. indeed, if european industry does not adapt to the new environmental challenges, it may survive in the short term, but it is doomed. by contrast, taking the moment to lead the transition to new industrial models and respond to new mobility systems will ensure its long-term survival and competitiveness, creating wealth, jobs and better environmental conditions. this regulation is a contribution to that end. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and hope that this will be a major and positive turning point for the european automobile industry.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, for her excellent work. in paris, we committed to cutting by 2030 40% of total greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. by 2015, all sectors had reduced their emissions except the transport sector, which, on the contrary, increased them by 20%. in 2015, road transport alone accounted for 72% of emissions, with 44% coming from light vehicles. the decarbonisation of transport is urgent, and let us not forget that self-regulation has been ineffective and state control has been insufficient for a sector where emissions results have even been forged. moreover, persistent investment in combustion engines has made the european automotive economy less competitive in an international context of electrification of the sector. the industry needs a clear signal that it cannot do business as usual. to meet these targets, more stringent measures are needed, such as the promotion of zero-emission vehicles over fossil fuel vehicles, real-world emission measurement and awareness raising for responsible consumption, as well as incentives for shared mobility in cities.
mr president, the management of innovation and the pace of large-scale application of new technologies must be guided by the defence of the public interest, the improvement of the quality of life of the population and the preservation of the environment. so too with car emissions. we are advocating in this, as in other areas, a regulatory approach as opposed to market approaches, which have shown themselves to be unable to protect the interests i have mentioned. public policies must frame this approach with strategies to defend and promote employment, particularly in industrial sectors, by combating existing imbalances and asymmetries and the predatory logic of multinationals. but it 's important not to forget something very important: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of public transport, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. what we don't understand is the inclusion of musical instruments in this negative list. the reduction of vat on musical instruments is an old demand of the artistic community. in portugal, thanks to the action of the pcp members, it was possible in 2018 to reduce the 23 per cent rate to the intermediate rate of 13 per cent, and i therefore call on this house to approve tomorrow our proposal to remove musical instruments from annex 3-a, thus allowing countries to continue with their policies to support cultural creation and enjoyment.
mr president, we are not ignorant of the causes and the soup that feeds the extreme right and fascist forces. the european union, which cynically expresses concern at this development, is the same one that supported and continues to support the fascist coup in ukraine, that imprints an exploitative and xenophobic nature on its migration policy, that promotes and deepens policies that attack social and labour rights and the sovereignty of states, that imposes threats, blackmail and sanctions against its peoples. the right-wing policies of the european union, implemented by the right and social democracy, are not distinguished in their objectives from those advocated by the reactionary forces: increasing oppression, exploitation and concentration of wealth, ensuring the maintenance of an iniquitous social order, that of capitalism. fascism, the creation of capitalism, has today a disturbing institutional expression in parliaments and governments in the european union. the firm fight against the forces of the far right and fascism requires that the policies that open the way to them are not whitewashed.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i will do my best! i would like to thank you for the debate, which was emotional and included very strong declarations, which is needed because we have to have debates about this very serious problem, not only in the parliaments but in the many other fora where people are still able to speak to each other. this is one of our problems, that people are more and more divided into bubbles, and this is also due to the digital development in our communication. i will try to bring a little bit of peace into that because before, at the beginning, i spoke about law enforcement reaction, about sanctioning and about the need to penalise these symptoms and aggressivity and violence. i would like to pause a little while and consider the reasons why we are witnessing and living through increased violence and aggression in our society. we should speak more about the breeding ground, which is fear, which is poverty, which is uncertainty, which is confusion. people in europe went through the financial crisis. some member states and some societies were more affected, some less. people are still stressed by the migration crisis of 2015 and 2016, which was unprecedented. we were not ready for that. we are stressed by terrorist attacks, we have a lot of uncertainty in our society due to something which sounds positive but which can have negative consequences on many people and that is the technological revolution. people have stopped understanding the world and they ask for more security and more certainty. my question is, why we as democrats, we who say clearly that aggression and violence is intolerable, that collective guilt is unacceptable, why are we not able to reach out to these people and to offer them more security and more certainty? why do these people come and more and more believe the populist parties and the people who provide them with easy solutions, which might lead to another tragedy in europe? i think that we should not only deal with the consequences – and this was the debate about the consequences here in parliament – but we should speak more about the sources, about the breeding ground. so i will do this, at least in my work, because i am in very frequent contact with normal citizens, with these people which have senior age. they have said to me: we fear, we are uncertain and we want our sons and our grandsons to have a peaceful life in europe. we have to offer this to the people and we have to take lessons from history and consider seriously what the new elements are. i already touched upon this, it is the digital revolution. just imagine if the totalitarian regimes of the past, and i will not name them because i don’t want to get into the passionate debate again, but what if they had this digital highway for propaganda? it would be much more efficient, much more easy to capture societies and to come with very dangerous proposals which, as we know, were realised. this digital world enables us to reach for very good things and bad things at the same time. here, i would say, we should be able to alert society because the passive majority, if it remains passive, will enable the evil again to rule the eu. i think that this is our task: to alert people. you know that we have the code of conduct against hate crime and hate speech. we are doing a lot against disinformation and sometimes when i see the statistical figures showing the increase of aggressivity and violence, i ask myself, is it really true that evil is so automatic and so strong and the good must be organised? i think that we should ask ourselves these questions and ask ourselves what are the most efficient instruments, how to address the majority of people, the honest people who need to have the option for their electoral preferences, to vote for the people who offer something other than aggression and violence. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much once again for this debate. i’m sure we will probably, unfortunately, have to debate these worrying phenomena and developments in the future, again.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, the emotionality of this discussion and all the loudness clearly showed us how important this issue is. there are many factors, as mentioned by the commissioner before, that might be sources of political violence. however, in my opinion – and i think it is the opinion of most of us – there is no excuse for any kind of violence and the presidency, and the council as a whole, rejects any form of politically motivated violence and intolerance, no matter where it comes from. we have a legal framework in place that needs to be effectively implemented in practice. we need to support it with targeted measures such as education, public debate and counter—narratives to prevent and tackle intolerance. the council will continue to follow this debate closely. i can assure members that i have paid particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate. in my opinion – and i think in the opinion of most of us – there has to be zero tolerance for any kind of political violence.
in writing. faced with the deepening of the structural crisis of capitalism, the most reactionary and aggressive sectors of the ruling class increasingly bet on fascism and war to save the system, to maintain at all costs the wicked social order that characterizes it. the fight against fascism will be inconsequential if we do not identify the culture that fuels it: the injustices and inequalities generated by capitalism, the unprecedented polarization of wealth, widespread unemployment, precariousness and work without rights, wages stagnating or having fallen back to pre-2007/2008 levels. its growth would be impossible without a schizophrenic media treatment which both conceals and exaggerates serious manifestations of a reactionary and fascinating nature, in an ideological behaviour that tends to trivialize the phenomenon rather than combat it. the difficulties and contradictions of the bourgeois liberal representation system favour demagogy and a far-right radicalisation presented as 'anti-system', and in which - as in the european union - the interferences and impositions that trample on national sovereignty are exploited to foster nationalism, the fundamental food of racism and fascism. fascism is not a fatality. but it is a real danger that must be fought with the utmost energy. a fight where we'll be on the front lines. as usual.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that health technology assessment is a key point of promotion and innovation, which can bring real health gains for patients and for society as a whole. it is on the basis of this evaluation that pricing and sharing can be established, which is of paramount importance for the sustainability of health systems. this proposal is balanced and based on the spirit of collaboration between the member states making up the union, but it still leaves room for manoeuvre for national decisions. centralization avoids duplication of assessments, saves resources and will create a less asymmetric europe in access to healthcare. although this is a meeting of the combined technical and scientific efforts of the national agencies, i welcome the inclusion of patient representatives in the evaluation process in the sense that the best value of a therapy is considered to go beyond mere clinical or pharmacological statistics, and the contribution of technology to the ease of treatment or to the quality of life of the patient can be considered. to this end, it is essential that the process is as transparent as possible in order to transmit trust throughout the entire value chain of the medicinal product.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the environment cannot wait any longer. emission targets must be ambitious if we are to reverse the calamitous global warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. we have to set a value at least above 40%. the targets set out in the commission's text are insufficient and provide for an overly positive scenario. history shows that the automobile industry has been systematically failing to meet its targets by abusing exceptions and subterfuge. it is time to give a strong political signal that clearly indicates a trajectory away from fossil fuels, a commitment to electricity technologies from renewable energy sources and a demand for greater transparency in emissions measurements. efficient cars bring enormous benefits. in addition to reduced emissions, they bring more competitiveness to european industry, they bring more jobs and they bring less dependence on oil imports. by giving preference to low- and zero-emission light vehicles and, on the other hand, penalizing the rest, we are allowing greater accessibility of these types of vehicles with obvious savings for the consumer and for air quality. colleagues, there is only a future with clean air.
portugal, with its recent fire situation, is a perfect example of the failure of the european union's cohesion policy, which has objectively promoted the desertification of the countryside by shutting down public services and destroying thousands of farms en masse, and now, unfortunately, the proposal for a multiannual financial framework, with less money for cohesion, less money for the common agricultural policy and more money for security and defence, maintains the fundamental political guidelines of the european union, which will exacerbate the social and economic anaemia experienced by rural and mountainous areas. but let us be serious, the cfp's fight against regional disparities goes far beyond cohesion policy. it means breaking free from the constraints of european union policies, at the level of the euro, at the level of the single market. only then will it be possible to implement a balanced regional development policy in portugal that serves the people.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, this is indeed a matter which must involve the whole of the european union. we are talking about some 120 million european citizens who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. we are talking about 25% of european citizens in this situation, which is unacceptable and which must be corrected immediately. if we want to pursue the european social model, this dream of social progress, we really have to address this question, which is absolutely emerging. it is true that there are substantial differences between the various member states, but we must ensure, we must guide public policies throughout the union so that social support, the minimum income, can in fact be an income, a support, which is properly adapted to the social situations of the various member states. in my case, in particular in the azores, the situation is dramatic, we are talking about 25% of the beneficiaries of working age being dependent on social insertion income, which is what they are called in my country. but let us be clear, in the last year we are no longer in an economic and social crisis, and the numbers of people who are receiving social inclusion income in the azores and portugal have been increasing dramatically, and so something is not right when we turn to the issues of public support, and here we have to work on several dimensions, we have to work on a dimension of prevention which obviously has to be equipped with the right support at the level of the labour market so that these people can be properly placed and, obviously, have the necessary training and education to avoid being in these dependence regimes, and obviously the minimum income must essentially be a policy of inclusion and not a subsidiary spending policy, and this is where we have to improve the responses we give to public authorities with multidisciplinary approaches so that we can effectively not only equip our societies with social support, but also ensure that these people have a better social situation, and we can all make this step forward, by ensuring that these people are effectively and progressively better off, so that we can all ensure that this situation is a success for europe. the european pillar of social rights is a good instrument for this to happen, but we need to implement it in our member states in such a way that people actually feel that they have a better europe.
madam president, we believe that the member states must have the sovereign capacity to define their instruments for responding to growing economic and social inequalities, poverty and exclusion, amongst others. the minimum income should be conditional on a temporary, transitional measure to dignify the condition of those who are in a situation of greater deprivation and vulnerability. a response that requires complementary measures to include, through public employment policies, support and promotion of national productive capacity with a view to job creation, responses that cannot compromise other instruments already in force and that should not be confused with proposals of apparent modernity, such as the disposable wage or the universal minimum income. false solutions that we reject. the recognition of the causes that justify such instruments and the increase in exploitation and poverty and the breaks with constraints imposed by the european union are decisive for the definition of alternative policies that determine a more equitable redistribution of wealth, the promotion of decent work with rights, the appreciation of wages and the guarantee of free, universal and quality public services.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the directive is established. madam president, commissioner, we must prevent eurojust from becoming another nest of bureaucrats in the european union, or another golden shelf to reward certain magistrates who are generous to the political power of their countries with luxury reforms. it is therefore urgently necessary to have political courage to reform the justice system in the union, starting with the transformation of eurojust into the embryo of a genuine european union prosecutor's office, with exclusive competence to investigate a catalogue of crimes which must also be rapidly defined. commissioner, justice is not the same in all the member states of the european union. it's a bit like human cholesterol: there's a good justice that respects, values and prestiges the rule of law, but there's another justice that does the exact opposite. it is therefore urgent to reform the judicial institutions to raise the standards of the administration of justice. this reform will also be a way out of the impasse in the process of european integration and will be a decisive step in that integration.
mr president, mr vice-president ansip, the territorial requirements of the union, determined by national, regional or local provisions, have led to a bias in competition between providers of cloud storage services. these location policies have also compromised the ability of researchers and scientists to share and collaborate, and innovation potential in europe has been lost. to this end, i believe it will be necessary to ensure that there is harmonisation in the minimum security criteria for data hosting systems in all member states. the competitive market must also safeguard the ability of citizens to switch providers easily and transparently and require structured data portability. to this end, good practices and information requirements for citizens should be established to prevent fraudulent transactions. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, anna corazza bildt, on her success in enshrining in legislation the mixed data, which covers both personal and non-personal data, and the way it is linked to the general data protection regulation for a clear and proper defence of the right to privacy of european citizens.
mr. president, indifference is killing people, 14,000 in the last five years alone. but indifference has active accomplices. the policies adopted by the european council, which attack the most vulnerable, while feeding fear and the arms industry, are the fuel of this complicity. the coordinator of the aquarius told le monde yesterday that the biggest threats to migrants at sea are no longer winds or big waves. the biggest threats are political. there's no other way to say it. the indifference we are experiencing is criminal. you have to help resolve conflicts. we must put lives before the arms business and have a genuine policy of cooperation. but here and now, we must prevent more people from dying in the mediterranean. we must prevent the criminalisation of those who save lives. this week, citizens of portugal launched a petition for the portuguese government to assign the national flag to the aquarius. it's not just a gesture. it's what it takes to start reversing course and rescuing humanity. i sincerely hope that the government of my country will not be another one to turn its back on us. the european union was once awarded the nobel peace prize, commissioner. isn't it time you gave it back?
mr president, mr commissioner, in the face of the lack of solidarity of some member states and our inability to reform the dublin system, it has often been the local and regional authorities who have taken the lead in welcoming and integrating immigrant refugees seeking protection within the european union. in my own country, portugal, too, many municipalities have been examples of solidarity and good practice in welcoming asylum seekers, and one region in particular, the autonomous region of madeira, is currently facing major budgetary constraints in dealing with a humanitarian emergency which, although extending beyond the borders of the mediterranean, we cannot ignore in this respect, the thousands of portuguese and portuguese immigrants fleeing the catastrophe of the economic and humanitarian situation in venezuela. the european union needs to support municipalities and regions that are at the forefront of migration management with more direct funding, more training and more technical support to increase cooperation structures and cope with the management of asylum applications, as well as possible social tensions and increased expenditure with the integration of these people in education, employment and housing.
mr. president, 17,088 dead in the mediterranean since 2014, 1,741 this year alone, conservative numbers. it is the xenophobic and exploitative, selective and inhumane character of eu migration policies that determine the criminal dimension of this reality. options that have limited rescue and salvage operations, either by making the operation of coast guards of member states or other vessels directly or indirectly involved in those operations conditional. the refusal to allow rescued persons to disembark is a serious violation of international conventions and the law of the sea. the dramatic situation which is being experienced and which is worsening in the mediterranean is inseparable from a migration policy based on the concept of 'eu fortress' which externalises borders and concludes agreements with third countries for the retention and expulsion of migrants and refugees. the silent death in the mediterranean or the hell in libya, this is the reality that the eu imposes on thousands of asylum seekers and that history, sooner rather than later, will try to judge.
rapporteur: mr president, commissioner bienkowska, it has been four years since the reform of public procurement legislation. it is time to take stock of its implementation by the member states. what is going well and what is going badly in the application of european rules. we agree that for the internal market to function well, it is crucial to define a comprehensive policy and strategic framework for public procurement that promotes growth, jobs and innovation. public procurement represents a substantial part of public investment in our economy. over two billion euros a year. this means that 250 000 public authorities spend around 14% of the union's gdp on the purchase of services, works and supplies through public contracts. we know that the delivery of high-quality public services depends to a large extent on modern, efficient and transparent public procurement processes. the report under discussion today responds precisely to this need. we agree with the european commission's strategy of proposing a package of non-legislative measures, two communications and a recommendation on the professionalisation of public procurement. we don't need more laws, but we need good implementation of the laws we have. we have therefore adopted a set of recommendations which the committee on the internal market wants to see implemented. ladies and gentlemen, the directives adopted in 2014 are not just a tool to regulate public procurement of goods, services and works. they should contribute to member states promoting policies of innovation, green and circular economy, sustainable and inclusive growth. we regret, however, the disappointing pace at which many member states have transposed the directives, even leading to infringement proceedings, and we are aware that many of the criticisms point to a protectionist approach, the difficult access and understanding for small and mediumsized enterprises, the lack of transparency and the fact that the only award criterion seems to be the lowest price, rather than, for example, social and environmental criteria which are strategic for the communities. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will continue to make proposals in the future. support the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement, for example by encouraging the division of contracts into lots, paragraph 38. transparency instruments such as contract registers are introduced, paragraphs 29, 33 and 41. invest in and accelerate digitalisation at all stages of the public procurement process, paragraphs 26 to 33, and promote innovation, paragraphs 4, 23 and 24. develop national public procurement strategies, systematic data analysis and professionalisation plans for those dealing with public contracts, paragraphs 53 to 57. combating unfair competition in cross-border public procurement procedures and improving access to public procurement markets in third countries, paragraphs 45 to 49. if high ethical and deontological standards are applied at all stages of the process, paragraphs 15 and 20. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have worked so hard on this report and on the opinions drawn up by the envi and intra committees. i believe we have come up with a good report, which sets out the right approach to efficient, effective and competitive public procurement, which responds to the challenges facing the sector today and which makes a strategic contribution to achieving objectives such as innovation, social inclusion and economic and environmental sustainability. i hope that all members will support the final adoption of this report, which promotes the proper functioning of the single market, the growth of businesses and employment and protects the interests of citizens. ensuring that taxpayers' money is spent efficiently and effectively is in the common interest and is a legitimate demand of our citizens.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, public procurement is - and should be - an important instrument for states to defend and promote their productive fabric, quality and decent employment, environmental protection, among other strategic objectives. while the current legislative framework in the european union theoretically allows for very partial consideration of some of these concerns, it is in reality practically impossible to exploit the full potential of this instrument, since this legislative framework is subject to and constrained by the sacrosanct logic of free competition in the single market. in other words, the legislation is all tailored to the interests of the big companies, the big transnational corporations which effectively dominate the single market and which have long been converging on the public procurement market their voracious appetite which is not yet fully satisfied. this is coupled with the advance of the market in areas which should have been protected from it, particularly in the case of public services which have been progressively dismantled and privatised, thanks also to the action, legislation and pressure of the european union, precisely to expand the business of public procurement. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. very quickly, my dear colleague, i am indeed aware in my assessment here of the package of legislation that was adopted in 2014. despite all the rhetoric that permeates it in defence of small and mediumsized enterprises, as is the case with many other european union legislation, the truth is that it is tailored to the interests of large companies precisely because it is subject to this logic of free competition in the single market, because they are the ones who, in free competition in the single market, are effectively dominating that market and do not forget, do not forget, because it is very important, that the station is combined with the dismantling of public services in water, postal services, energy, as is now also being done in health and is being done in health to open these areas precisely to public procurement.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank commissioner bienkowska for the references she has made and for what she has said. start by underlining exactly what she just said. we are faced with a clear case where europe has done well, where we have adopted our legislative framework on time and where the problems are the result of the slow and sometimes incorrect transposition of legislation by the member states. we can't ask for more from ourselves. we must ask the member states not to undermine what we have been able to do at european level. i would like to thank all colleagues for their contributions and underline three points: first, i think there is a great deal of consensus on the broad objectives of this initiative, the idea that with this instrument we will promote more transparency and fight corruption, we will ensure fair competition and we will have instruments to pursue the objectives of innovation, of green and circular economy and of sustainable and inclusive growth, the idea that here we also have to have social criteria. the second idea is concern for small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that was common to most of the speeches we heard this morning, and thirdly and lastly, the idea of digitisation, not only as a tool for simplifying processes but also for ensuring greater transparency. mr president, i believe that this is a concern of all of us, ensuring that taxpayers' money is well spent is a demand that all of our citizens make and i hope that in today's vote there will be a clear signal from the european parliament around the recommendations we are proposing.
mr president, in my speech in this house last april on the violent repression of the opposition march on 25 march, i said that freedom was not a word that suited the regime of president lukashenko. unfortunately, this observation is more true today than ever. the attacks, arrests, detentions and prosecutions against independent journalists, editors and bloggers and the blocking of news websites, such as the well-known charter 97, are a real attack on freedom of the press, on the democratic values that are so dear to us europeans, and have become a modus operandi of an authoritarian regime that does everything to silence critical voices. but the truth is that nothing should surprise us any longer from a regime that rules the only european country that still boasts of having death-row prisoners as its visiting card and that, contrary to what is happening outside europe, stubbornly persists in building the ostrovets nuclear power station. i believe that the european union must continue to make the normalisation of its relations with belarus conditional on respect for human rights, including freedom of expression, and this house, which in 2004 awarded the sakharov prize to the belarusian journalists' association, must categorically condemn the imposition of gags on the free voices of civil society.
ahmed mansoor was, until last may, one of the last remaining outspoken critics of human rights violations in the uae who was still at large. after years of beatings and death threats, he was arbitrarily detained in march 2017 and now sentenced to ten years in prison and a heavy fine. the crime of this eminent activist who peacefully called for respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law, including the possibility of holding elections by direct universal suffrage, on social networks, is actually called the exercise of freedom of expression and not an attempt to disturb social harmony and the unity of the country, as the regime claims. the european union therefore cannot but strongly condemn the imprisonment of ahmed mansoor, demand the immediate and unconditional release of him and all other political prisoners of conscience, and urge the federation of the seven emirates to comply with its international human rights obligations, including the abolition of torture and the death penalty, and to implement constitutional reforms that ensure respect for individual freedoms and an effective separation of powers.
the resolution, which is based on allegations, unconfirmed data or information from such partial bodies as the us congressional executive committee, is in line with the strategy of the united states and the european union and its major powers to confront countries that defend and assert their sovereignty, right to development and independence. a resolution which takes the form of the arrogance of those who unacceptably dare to intervene, to interfere in third countries, a hypocritical resolution of those who claim to be heralds of human rights, manipulate them and trample on the aggressions and wars they promote, particularly in the middle east and north africa, whitening, feeding and exploiting the terrorist hordes they cynically claim to fight. the european union and this parliament have no legitimacy to lecture on human rights. china's economic and social development and its projection and role in international economic and political relations make it the main strategic target of imperialism. that is the real reason for this resolution and debate.
mr president, commissioner, it is becoming the rule that whenever china is brought up in this house, it is rarely for good reasons. if we take account of the number of statements, resolutions and motions that this parliament has made about the violation of human rights, freedom of worship, freedom of expression and arbitrary judicial proceedings and against the democratic rules practiced by the republic of china during the reign of the chinese president, we would easily come to the conclusion that china is one of the world champions of oppression and authoritarianism, side by side with putin's russia and nicolas maduro's venezuela. the truth is that since xi jinping came to power in 2003, the human rights situation in china has deteriorated further as the chinese government intensifies its hostility to peaceful opposition, freedom of expression and religion, and the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, in the face of so much evidence and recent reports that uyghurs, kazakhs and other ethnic minorities, mostly muslims, in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region, have been subjected to arbitrary detention and torture and severe restrictions on religious and cultural practices, the union must forcefully demand and condemn these practices and pressure the chinese government to end their activities and punitive measures.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague carlos coelho on his brilliant work on the public procurement strategy and he stresses that spending a considerable amount of taxpayers' money has to be ethical, transparent and honest in order to efficiently deliver quality goods and services to citizens. according to the commission, 55% of public procurement procedures still use the lowest price as the only award criterion, without considering any social, economic sustainability or environmental protection criteria in these decisions. the seriousness of procurement processes requires an end to amateurism and the empirical management of procurement by public entities. finally, after four years, following the review of the four legislative acts, the commission calls for the modernisation and simplification of public procurement systems by using e-government technologies and the use of economies of scale, with cross-border joint procurement, making full use of the european single market. i cannot, however, fail to mention the consequences of irresponsible public management, as in the case of the public-private road partnerships in portugal, which have cost the state millions of euros. i salute the civil society organisations in my country who have been able to denounce these situations and try to obtain the justice they deserve. for the sake of taxpayers, i hope that member states will welcome this report and use it to bring about the necessary change in public management.
member of the commission. – madam president, i took this point on behalf of commissioner andriukaitis, but i have to tell you that i am personally very interested in the subject too. i am very concerned about animal welfare and so i am happy to be here with you. the eu is a major global producer, as was said, of broilers. the poultry sector employees over a quarter of a million people in europe, with 23 000 large broiler farms in europe. but of course for us the most important thing for now is discussing animal welfare, and bird welfare. over the years, there has been good work in this house on that issue, and i thank you very much for this. the european union has developed a range of legislation, which is leading the world on animal welfare. our farmers, in each of the 28 member states, put this legislation into force almost every day. we take animal welfare very seriously and remain fully committed to constant improvement through the life of the directive and other legislation. we work closely with the member states to ensure that the legislation is fully enforced. this includes the directive on the protection of broilers, the broiler directive. since coming into force in 2010, the broiler directive has provided a legal framework to the member states, which has considerably improved the management and housing of broilers. this in turn has improved the welfare of the birds. the broiler directive was the first piece of eu legislation to introduce animal—based indicators as a way to monitor the welfare of animals. current information and research shows that the use of these indicators, such as footpad dermatitis in poultry, has brought about the majority of improvements in farm welfare for chickens. encouraged by this, we will continue to develop animal—based indicators as a way of continually improving conditions for animals. we believe that there is still a lot of room for improvement in animal welfare, but the work already carried out by the european union gives us hope that a lot has also been achieved so far. in 2019, the commission, together with the member states and stakeholders, will work to identify further animal—based indicators for broilers. we hope that these new indicators can be used by national authorities and also by the commission to better target their action and thus improve the implementation of the directive. investment in the health and welfare of animals on farms, of course, brings additional benefits. as has just been mentioned, improvements in animal husbandry have reduced the need to use medication on farms, including antibiotics. this is very significant and provides a strong boost to our fight against antimicrobial resistance. through the marketing standards for poultry meat regulation, we provide incentives and support for animal—welfare—friendly chicken production. we list certain specific terms, which can only be used for poultry meat produced in alternative production systems. these include terms such as ‘extensive indoor’, ‘traditional free range’ and ‘total freedom free range’, which are defined and limited to farms meeting specific criteria. member states may additionally co—finance investment in animal—welfare—friendly production systems through the rural development programmes. this funding can be used, for example, to upgrade, fit and improve housing where it goes beyond the minimum required standards. as regards the question of mandatory labelling of poultry meat, the commission carried out a feasibility study on animal welfare labelling, following extensive stakeholder consultation, and the outcome of this study was included in a report from the commission to the european parliament and the council, adopted at the end of 2009. this study concluded that mandatory animal welfare labelling in respect of minimum eu standards would offer no added value. our work to improve animal welfare standards and implementation in the eu continues. in 2019, work will commence on the designation of the eu reference centre for animal welfare for poultry, rabbits and fur animals. this centre is expected to provide scientific and technical information, through which we will be able to support member states in the implementation of animal welfare rules. i look forward to the discussion and your views on this.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, on 13 september we adopted the report also by my colleague karin kadenbach on the european commission's proposal for the european 'one health' action plan against antimicrobial resistance. i had the opportunity to say here what i say now: it is now essential to stop the rampant use of antibiotics introduced by intensified animal husbandry practices. commissioner, while we can accept that antibiotics are important in ensuring food security, we cannot allow the development of breeding technologies to reduce costs and achieve maximum yield in animal production to be at the expense of our future health. the truth is that high density farming uses antibiotics improperly and systematically on poultry farms, often in unsanitary environments, to prevent the spread of diseases resulting from the cramped, confined and stressful conditions in which the animals are kept. these conditions have the added disadvantage of inhibiting the natural immune system of animals, but the use of antibiotics such as prophylaxis and metaphylaxis in food-producing animals will see its ambitious end this year with the final approval of the report on the regulation on the use of veterinary medicinal products. it will also make it very clear that the disease is to be prevented not by the routine use of antimicrobials but by good hygiene practices or techniques of compartmentalisation and good animal management. i believe that protecting consumers and public health means using healthy, high-quality, genetically diverse breeding animals that grow naturally, ensuring breeding conditions that respect the behavioural needs of the species such as social interactions and hierarchies, and maintaining a density of animals that does not increase the risk of disease transmission. commissioner, i now ask the question which is implicit in my colleagues' oral question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the member states have the necessary measures to ensure that quality food products are available on the market without unnecessary antibiotics to prevent the emergence of antimicrobial resistance.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, (inaudible) fully supports this proposal because it is a scandal that we have entities who find a way to be reimbursed by taxes they never paid. so we do need to have a debate on this. nevertheless, we think that the resolution should not be prepared for this session because we believe that we need to go deeper in identifying the problem behind it, and we recommend this being discussed in tax3 committee. so we support the debate but we feel that the resolution should be discussed in another month.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the s&d group proposed to include in this session a commission and council statement followed by a debate on a european mechanism on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. we really see this as a major and central task of the european parliament. we would like to clarify that our purpose with this debate is to focus on the instruments – not on particular cases but on instruments. we need really to provide the necessary instruments to deal with these issues wherever they take place. so this is the approach we are proposing, and we believe that we should have a clear majority of the parliament, because this is a major task where we need to deliver by the end of this legislature.
mr president, i think this is exactly the moment when it would be interesting to listen to the other groups. in any case, i said that the approach we are advocating on this subject is to ensure that we do not discuss individual cases but rather that we focus our discussion on the need to equip the european union with the necessary instruments to ensure respect for the law and fundamental rights. this is the approach we would like to develop.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we can go for this compromise, which means having the debate at this part-session and then preparing properly a resolution on the issue for the next part-session. this is indeed a solution we can accept.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are proposing a new point – a debate but without resolutions for next thursday – because we think this is a good moment to highlight positive examples on municipalities providing reception and integration for refugees. this is happening in several regions in europe, and we need to highlight this as a positive experience. we consider that this case of riace is in fact a paradox, because how can we explain that a mayor who was undertaking outstanding work to receive refugees is now forbidden to be in his own municipality? this is something we cannot accept. that’s why we think that a debate is really useful to highlight that something wrong is happening in riace, and by opposition, many positive things are happening in other municipalities where mayors do provide the very good work of reception and integration.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are keeping the proposal,(applause)because in fact we could go back to libe, but what is happening now is considered a scandal everywhere. how can we explain that the mayor, who is providing a real good work to receive people and to integrate them, is first of all put in jail and now forbidden to go back to his municipality? (applause)the parliament needs to have a look at this. we need to understand what is going on – and this is now, this is not in a few weeks. this is now. so yes, we stand with this proposal and we expose this to the vote. (applause)
mr president, commissioners, i have not tired of saying that the fight against climate change must be a global priority. but once again, we are going to a cop to see that the commitment ratified in the paris agreement is not being fulfilled, and the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that while we are going here to discuss, week after week, what targets, whether mandatory or voluntary, what reductions, what ambitions and what collective and individual commitment we will have to take to mitigate the impacts of change, in my country, the effects are more than visible, with forest fires destroying precious resources and killing people. ladies and gentlemen, this is the time for action and for that there must be a clear commitment on the part of the member states, and this must happen, as has already been said here, before katowice, otherwise we will go to the cop in vain. the intergovernmental panel on climate change has already shown that we should aim for a limit of 1.5 degrees celsius, not 2, so that the impacts we are subject to are less severe. and to do that, i understand that europe must speak with one voice in the various international forums. we must lead by example and put national interests aside so that we can demand that everyone at the negotiating table give this commitment to the environment the urgency it needs. thank you very much.
mr president, there are questions which are not included, but which should be included, in the questions which form part of this debate. the conference on climate change, cop 24, is another one that is held without questioning the perversity and ineffectiveness of market instruments such as carbon trading. environmental objectives are being overtaken by business, even the buying and selling of pollution rights. with regard to the conference on biological diversity, cop 14, it is curious that there is talk here of new financial instruments for biodiversity, not to mention the absence, up to now, more than twenty-five years ago, of a community instrument dedicated to financing the management and conservation of the natura 2000 network. on the contrary, there is a clear lack of responsibility on the part of the european union in this area, a flaw which neither the cap nor the life programme makes up for. they prefer, it is true, to channel resources to the arms industry and to the ongoing militaristic escalation. no excuse to paint your face green.
madam president, commissioner, the international summits we are discussing here cannot be just a big global media event. limiting global warming under the terms of the paris agreement can mean the difference between life and death for people and ecosystems and is also crucial for the preservation of biodiversity. it is therefore necessary to set more ambitious targets and to channel more funding towards biodiversity conservation. it is no longer enough to communicate with indicators and graphs, commissioner, it is the survival of humanity as we know it that is at stake. as shadow rapporteur for the energy governance regulation, which will be voted on at the next plenary here in strasbourg, i have sought to ensure that the 2030 climate targets of the energy union will be achieved through coherent and flexible policies. we need to act. if selfish, anthropocentric competition for resources destroys the foundations of natural balances, we are destroying ourselves and we cannot allow that to happen.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. madam president, i also replace my colleague maline björk, who is the author of the opinion. we would like to highlight some of the proposals made by the emff: strengthening cohesion funds to safeguard women's economic and social rights, combating the feminization of poverty, investing in public high-quality care services, strengthening sexual education policies and sexual and reproductive health services, combating all forms of violence against women and girls, combating trafficking in human beings, which mainly affects women and girls in the so-called sex trade. the commission's proposals have unfortunately been largely rejected by the committee on budgets, which has rejected the need for a budget which is sensitive to the inequalities between men and women. proposals which highlight the limitations of the present budget proposal, replicating the options of the current multiannual financial framework and which could be aggravated in the next one with the option of further cuts in cohesion, increasing the security and militaristic headings with consequences which inevitably have a particular impact on women. that is why our committee has tabled all the defective proposals for which it is asking for support in the vote. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner, the council, the rapporteur, mr daniel viotti, and all the shadows. there's a good climate, a good environment. i hope it continues. we are faced with long negotiations and it is therefore in the interests of the europeans that there should be a good agreement in the forthcoming negotiations. parliament, the moderates in parliament, the groups in favour of european union integration are united and they are also united in favour of the citizens. we have a small budget, 1% of gdp, but a budget that has a huge impact on the lives of citizens. unfortunately, it does not always make sense and we should all work to make it more visible in terms of the impact and the positive effect it has, a truly investment budget. some 94% of the budget is for investment and only 6% is for current expenditure and a budget also for young people, farmers, small and mediumsized enterprises, research, innovation and economic growth. these are our priorities and we therefore hope and are confident that we will achieve, within the limits of that 1% of the gross national income of the european union, a good agreement in favour of the citizens and the challenges we face. that's what they want from us.
pech reporter. - mr president, dear commissioner and dear friend, plastics are one of the great innovations of the 20th century with major impacts on the economy and on the daily lives of all of us. on the contrary, it has disastrous impacts on the environment, on biodiversity, on the health of ecosystems and, absurd and contradictory as it may seem, on the quality of everyday life. it is unfortunate that we have allowed plastics to expand to such an extent that we have only now actually started to produce governance instruments to correct the management errors of the last 70 years. let it serve as a warning not to neglect the guard and the precaution for management and governance with regard to current and future technological innovations. fishing accounts for 27% of single-use plastics that occur in the sea. it is therefore very important to harmonize this proposal with the directive on the reception of waste in port areas. the plastics directive is only a delay and i hope that an ambitious document will be obtained by wednesday.
mr president, commissioner, we talk about pollution in the oceans and the first thing that comes to mind is drifting plastic. plastics are a visible problem that we can no longer ignore, especially the avoidable accumulation in our oceans and on our beaches. the presence of the disposable for its ease of use has led to the unnecessary use of the use of this type of products. consumption has to be more sustainable and it goes through a greater consumer awareness, to the preference for reusable materials, to the correct way to dispose of waste and to the extreme need to use disposables that have an option for biodegradable materials safely in the aquatic environment. i therefore believe that the measures we are about to adopt will prevent the situation from worsening in the future, but they will not erase in a flash the problem we have today throughout the world. we need to find sustainable solutions, including investing in ocean cleanup through waste collection and recycling. plastic doesn't belong in the environment, nor in the landfill. complying with the circulation of the economy and taking the proper value of this waste to reduce its environmental footprint is essential. eventually, the rest of the world will follow our lead.
mr president, the report, which is full of social rhetoric, makes a good case for working with rights and respect for private life, for combating unemployment and the spread of parttime and temporary contracts, and for the need to protect against poverty and social exclusion. however, by discussing positive statistical developments in some merely marginal cases, it omits any criticism of the policies of precariousness and low wages which in portugal, as in a little bit all over europe, have increased, whitewashes and omits the contribution of the european semester and its country-specific recommendations to the degradation of working conditions and the increase in exploitation. the cynicism and hypocrisy of the text are exposed in the harsh criticisms made by the european commission of the increase in the minimum wage or of a so-called difficulty in dismissing workers with indefinite contracts in portugal. it makes clear the need to break with the constraints of the euro and the european union which prevent the effective appreciation of workers, their wages and rights.
mr president, the structural funds are not, and have never been, an expression of supposed european solidarity. they are, and always have been, a monetary compensation for the asymmetrical impact of integration. if there are winners in the single market, the euro and common policies, there are also losers, and some lose a lot. hence this form of compensation, which is insufficient and in the interest of the member states, and it is in the light of this reality that the proposals for regulations on the structural funds put forward by the european commission are extremely worrying. if these proposals are not changed, it will be more difficult to use the least available money, it will mean that the use of these funds will not be subject to the interests and needs of each state, especially those facing the greatest difficulties, but subject to the political objectives set by the major powers in defence of their own interests, those of their multinationals, including in the area of the arms industry. that is why they want to pass these regulations quickly, without public involvement and discussion. that is why we must denounce and combat this intention.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt today that interference through social networks (we are looking at facebook here, but also at other networks), manipulation of the political point of view and of a more general point of view are a danger, a risk, a threat. the cambridge analytica case has clearly shown that it is possible to interfere in an election process. we are not concerned only with the electoral question; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for political purposes. and so, based on this case that we know, based on the strong suspicions that we have in the case of the united states, based, for example, on what is precisely happening now in brazil, where the suspicions of fake news and manipulation of algorithms to campaign for elections are multiplying from side to side, it is essential that we take measures, measures for the european elections because these are an emergency, but measures that are medium and long-term for all electoral processes. as i said, for us it is not just an electoral issue that is at stake, it is a question of general citizenship for all subjects. this means that it will not be just with an interference or with legislation in this case, but by understanding how we can look at the democratic society of the future, knowing that social networks have to have a role in it and that we, just as we were able to regulate the role of the media in the past society, will be able to regulate the role of the new world of social networks in a modern democratic society. the challenge before us is a constitutional challenge far more ambitious than simply preventing interference for the time being.
mr. president, in 2013, snowden revealed to us how the us agencies had put the biggest companies in the internet sector to spy on users. the world then realized how fragile their privacy and the protection of their data was. five years later, the cambridge analytica scandal has shown us how on the edge of the cliff, what was decided was to take a step forward. privacy and our personal data has become one of capitalism's most valuable assets, and we now know that personal data has been used as a weapon in political combat. add to that the growth of fake news, lies and hate speech, and you have the perfect recipe for mass election manipulation. platforms like facebook and whatsapp do not have the capacity or transparency to handle the information they offer, let alone to protect it, as we see in brazil. so i ask what more needs to happen to continue defending our democracies and to defend democratic elections.
mr president, the use of personal data, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, by the social network facebook, or by other networks and platforms, to manipulate political choices and options and mass behaviour, raises a civilizational question. values such as privacy, transparency, trust and ultimately the freedom of choice of citizens are at stake. as we prepare to make the huge investment in europe's digital agenda, we need to set an ethical and legal standard applicable to all companies operating in, or interacting with, our territory, and develop robust tools for checking and sanctioning those who do not. at the same time, it is important to progressively develop a social media management model closer to the internet model, more multi-stakeholder and less based on the big hegemonic corporate powers. you have to give back to society what's rightfully its own. we must put technological development at the service of individuals and not of those who want to manipulate them and distort their freedom of choice.
mr president, i am grateful to the president of romania for being here with us today and i would like to make two statements of interest: the first is that it is only out of intellectual dishonesty that one can compare romania's situation with hungary or poland and the second is that i have a nephew studying in romania. romania has a complex semi-presidential system, a complex constitution, and i have two very specific questions to ask you, mr president. firstly, what role has the president played in improving the democratic system and the separation of powers and how will this be visible during the romanian presidency, that is, respect for the rule of law and the fight against corruption, which are not only a concern of his country but of the whole european union. the second question relates to what i have already said about the multiannual financial framework and, because we also have the commissioner for regional development here, i would like to ask her whether romania is prepared to have an agreement on the regulation of cohesion policy in the first half of 2019, that is, what political strategy it has, is being drawn up or is already being drawn up and whether we can know what it covers.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because of the urgency of setting minimum standards for water quality in the union and ensuring that all citizens of the european union have access to this fundamental good. access to safe drinking water must be considered a fundamental human right. just because water is essential to human health, it cannot be enslaved to the distribution business. as a public good, i advocate standards of quality and waste prevention that are only achievable through the ethical exploitation of water. these are the values that must be promoted when we talk about the efficiency of distribution systems. i would also stress that in 2010 the united nations declared water to be a human right, alongside sanitation, and that access to drinking water should not be conditioned by the lack of economic resources of the end user. that is why i voted in favour of providing drinking water points in public places, of controlled quality, as they already exist in many member states on a voluntary basis, in the hope that it will also become the rule throughout the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to say to the first vice-president: yes, what is at stake is knowing what kind of european union we can present to our citizens in the upcoming european elections. a europe which can really deliver on solutions for their problems, or a europe which is paralysed by the forces of the status quo? we, the s&d group, are really striving for real european solutions, and we need to deliver them in the last months, for sure. when it comes to tackling social inequalities, this means fully implementing the european social pillar. when it comes to climate change, this means having an ambitious strategy for a low-carbon economy. when it comes to the digital revolution, we need to frame it, to conduct it in such a way that we improve working conditions and we control the effects on our democracy. and when it comes to migration management and the refugee crisis, we need to make sure that europe counts not only on the european border, but the real european asylum system and a real partnership with africa. then we can ask: but do we have the means for this? and we think we have, because if we fight tax evasion – tax avoidance – the means will be there. we need to turn these into a future community framework and also a proper reform of the eurozone, overcoming the current differences. and then we can ask: can we decide on this? yes, we can. in the european parliament we decide by a majority, so let’s see now how the different groups promote these real european solutions. and yes, when it comes to the council, these proposals coming now to extend qualified majority voting in the social area, taxation and foreign affairs – this makes sense – will support the commission in this direction. let’s make the best of the upcoming months. this is indeed the moment for us to strengthen european sovereignty as the main leverage to increase citizens’ ownership of their own lives.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, your speech is nothing new, just the usual rhetoric and propaganda which ignores the consequences of the policies which the commission and the european union have imposed on the workers and the people. if evidence were lacking, there is the discussion of the next multiannual financial framework which anticipates brutal cuts in cohesion, deepening unequal, unfair and asymmetrical development, imposing divergence between the different member states as 30 years of portuguese integration demonstrate. at the same time, they enlarge the columns that support your repressive, security and militarist policies. a figurehead that makes it clear that the european union funds were never the expression of solidarity or even compensation for the loss of sovereignty, the destruction of national productive networks or the asymmetrical impact of the single market, the euro and common policies. no people is condemned to be tied to the constraints of the european union. it is their will and their struggle that will build a europe of peace and cooperation, of progress and social justice, of free, sovereign and equal states.
mr president, this cum ex scandal, another one, is absolutely intolerable. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament, and that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. this scandal shows once again that a serious fight against tax fraud and evasion means questioning and calling into question the two sacred cows of the european union: private banking, which must be publicly controlled, and the total liberalisation of capital movements, which must be controlled.
this cumex scandal, another one, is intolerable to all intents and purposes. eur 55 billion was withheld from tax administrations between 2012 and 2015. in other words, while eu governments were ruthlessly falling on taxpayers to recapitalise the banks, the banks themselves were creating tax evasion schemes by trading shares with non-residents in order to avoid taxation of dividends. this case once again reveals what we've been fighting for. a genuine fight against tax fraud and tax evasion necessarily involves questioning and tampering with the two sacred cows of this european union: the financial system and the free movement of capital. in this sense, public control of banking and control of capital movements is now a matter of urgency.
mr president, madam high representative, the grim and macabre circumstances of jamal khashoggi's death have put on the world's media agenda what the respected washington post journalist has long denounced and the riyadh regime and its allies have tried to whitewash: the wave of arrests, the crackdown and attempts to publicly humiliate intellectuals and religious leaders who disagree with prince mohammed bin salman, the country's de facto leader. madam high representative, the european union must condemn this murder and urge the saudi authorities to reveal the whereabouts of jamal khashoggi's body, to allow a credible and transparent investigation to find out what happened at his diplomatic mission in istanbul, in a shocking violation of the vienna convention on consular relations and saudi arabia's international obligations as a member of the united nations human rights council. in memory of jamal khashoggi, we must once again demand the release of all his colleagues, such as the writer saleh al shehi or the blogger raif badawi, who are paying with prison sentences for their legitimate demands for political rights and civil liberties in that country. the arms embargo on saudi arabia is now more than ever a moral and decent imperative.
in writing. it is regrettable that the eu did not take a clear, united and firm position as soon as news of the disappearance of journalist jamal khashoggi broke. the murder of journalist khashoggi stems from the perception of total impunity instilled in the saudi dictatorship, from the very beginning by its american and european allies. this impunity continues even after crown prince mohammed bin salman kidnapped lebanese prime minister saad hariri in 2017 and the intervention of the french president was necessary to rescue him. it is high time to end the cover-up and collusion with the saudi outlaw regime. this parliament and the whole of the eu must demand an independent investigation under the auspices of the united nations to determine who was responsible for the murder of jamal khashoggi and to force them to be tried by an international tribunal. all of the minions already identified as having been involved in the assassination, including mohammed bin salman, have to be included in the list of personal sanctions, including asset freezes and eu entry bans. european governments must immediately stop arms sales to saudi arabia, which is in flagrant violation of its own binding common position on arms exports.
madam president, madam high commissioner, by its aggressive actions in the sea of azov, which once again undermine the sovereignty of ukraine, and in particular by the construction of a bridge in the kerch strait, which restricts navigation in these waters, russia is once again pursuing its project of geopolitical destabilisation and defying international rules. we are aware that the sanctions applied so far have not yet produced the desired effects. nevertheless, it is not possible to react to russia's disruptive actions with political statements alone, and the restrictive measures announced by the council against some entities involved in the construction of the kerch bridge are therefore relevant. the european union should support and encourage the legal path being explored by kiev, in particular the complaint lodged by this country under the un convention on the law of the sea. in the same vein, it makes perfect sense to propose that the mandate of the osce special monitoring mission be strengthened so that it also covers the tensions in the azov sea. the european union must therefore adopt a firm stance, responding with concrete measures, always taking care to discourage decisions by both sides which could lead to a military escalation, but without hesitating in its support for the undoubtedly weaker side, ukraine.
madam president, madam high representative, once again we are here to speak of a country and a people plunged into the worst of misery, the disintegration of an entire nation. since the illegal annexation of crimea in march 2014, we have witnessed a steady militarization of the entire zone and a number of russian aggressions aimed at the economic strangulation of crimea and the destabilization of ukraine. what is happening in the sea of azov is part of that strategy. after devastating tourism and agriculture, the foundations of the crimean economy, mr putin now intends to expand his control over trade and navigation in the sea of azov by blocking merchant ships trying to reach the ports of mariupol and berdyansk. what is happening in the kerch strait threatens not only the security of ukraine but also the freedom of movement of nato in the zone of political stability of the black sea region where, moreover, russia regularly and provocatively conducts large-scale military exercises. madam high representative, there is a need to ensure the effective implementation of the restrictive measures agreed in the european council, and ukraine needs us europeans more than ever at this time. thank you very much.
madam president, last week of june, as part of a delegation from the european parliament, i was in one of the poorest states in brazil, roraima, which borders venezuela, and i had the opportunity at that time to visit several venezuelan refugee camps. it's not fake news, it's direct contacts that i had with people who were there, who i was able to talk to, venezuelans, mostly poor, and who had fled venezuela. i spoke to them, and they pointed to a variety of reasons: hunger, lack of medicine, in some cases, a framework of political persecution. that's the reality. much more than the two million citizens who have left venezuela in recent years because of the dictatorial regime that reigns there. and we here can make no distinction between dictatorships. there are no dictatorships of the left and dictatorships of the right, some better and some worse. all dictatorships are deplorable and true democrats have an obligation to fight them. and we, who have the privilege of being in a democratic parliament, have the obligation to denounce, to fight and to support those who are fighting for democracy in venezuela, even if we do not entirely agree with their ideological and political orientations. i am in favour of further negotiations, even though the ones that have taken place so far have failed. but i agree with that idea and i think that the european union should invest, to the extent of its capabilities, in the effort to promote such negotiations between the various parties involved in the conflict in venezuela. but this cannot, under any circumstances, mean that the european union will withdraw any firmness from its relationship with a dictatorial regime such as the one currently in place in venezuela.
madam president, as we speak, dictator nicolás maduro is criticizing donald trump for not opening the borders of the united states to thousands of honduran citizens who want to enter the country. nicolás maduro just doesn't question the reasons why these people choose the united states as their destination, and not venezuela. why do you prefer the arms of a democratic country, even if treated by maduro as an imperialist with pretensions to be the world's police, to the chavista and totalitarian venezuela where the most orthodox marxist practices are applied in the 21st century? and the answer is simple. if they were looking for venezuela, they'd probably have the borders closed. and then, if you wanted to live and work there, what would you find? they would find poverty and hunger, a people in want, businesses closed, the violence of the regime's militias; if they got sick, they wouldn't have medicine in the hospital. if they wanted to be entrepreneurs, they would perhaps end up arbitrarily arrested, as happened to 34 supermarket managers, 12 of them portuguese and of portuguese descent recently; and if they challenge the government, they might end up like fernando albán salazar, city councilor of libertador, an opponent imprisoned by the dictatorship who may have stumbled from the tenth floor of the building of the bolivarian national intelligence service in caracas. madam president, this debate is about the situation in venezuela. the situation in venezuela, one of the richest countries on the planet, boils down to one word, it's a tragedy.
madam president, a profound democratic institutional breakdown has created a huge humanitarian crisis in venezuela. a tragedy of the magnitude of what is happening is always the result of a resounding political failure. the causes and contexts are varied, but the role of the european union should not be to fuel geostrategic rivalries or to exaggerate the characterization of the good and the bad. the suffering of the venezuelan people cannot be used as an instrument of political struggle and i therefore welcome the strategy defined by the european union and reiterated here by the high representative, federica mogherini. this strategy must be supported by this parliament. targeted sanctions and the denunciation of systematic human rights violations are the necessary basis for forcing a political solution that safeguards the foundations of the rule of law, helps the people and allows the brutal humanitarian crisis that is taking place in venezuela to be resolved.
madam president, madam high representative, once again to express our deep concern at what is happening in this great country of latin america. venezuela, which has not experienced any natural disasters, has today about 87% of its population affected by the real social and human scourge of poverty, with more than 61% of venezuelans living in extreme poverty, as our resolution shows. this situation is intolerable and must be reversed! the social, humanitarian, economic and political picture in venezuela is well known. this parliament has been debating the situation intensely, sending a mission to its borders last june and even awarding the shakarov prize to the venezuelan opposition last year. and it is this same opposition that is the target of persecution and arbitrary detention, international arrest warrants, expulsions from the country or forced exiles. added to these facts is the death of councillor fernando albán, which occurred two weeks ago under unknown circumstances and while he was in the custody of the national intelligence service. these are intolerable situations which must be reversed immediately! i would like to conclude by calling for increased european and international humanitarian aid on the ground and in neighbouring countries.
mr president, this house systematically ignores without condemnation the threats of military intervention and the constant destabilizing actions promoted by the united states against the bolivarian republic of venezuela and the venezuelan people. the european union is associated with this strategy, which is based on sanctions and the economic and financial blockade, which affects the venezuelan economy and the living conditions of its people, as well as the overwhelming majority of the portuguese community. this is intensifying as the venezuelan government seeks to implement measures to combat terrorist acts, alongside economic measures, in particular to combat hoarding and price speculation, with a view to improving the living conditions of venezuelans and the portuguese community. relations with venezuela and its legitimate government must be guided by respect for its sovereignty and independence, the charter of the united nations and international law, and by respect for the right of the venezuelan people to decide, without external interference, their future.
madam high representative, i am very sorry to interrupt you, but i will give you the floor right away, thank you very much. mr president, madam high representative, the economic collapse and the humanitarian tragedy that is taking place in venezuela today have their origin in a political problem which must be solved in this way alone, and i therefore welcome mrs mogherini's intention, as she said a moment ago, of creating a contact group to deal with the crisis in venezuela without relaxing the restrictive measures imposed by the european union. the recent reversals in the diplomatic policy of some member states, which seek to replace the regime of individual sanctions with dialogue, only serve to fuel the deception of mr maduro's government, which for the past four years has been deceiving heads of state, the vatican, the european union and its own people with simulacra of dialogue that have only served to buy time and try to weaken external pressure and demobilize the opposition. these ad hoc attempts at dialogue with the illegitimate and dictatorial regime, which is part of the problem and not the solution, only serve to weaken the union's joint position and to fuel the oxygen balloon of a government which has turned a prosperous democratic nation into a narco-state which condemns its own citizens to the most abject tyranny and misery. i would like to conclude, mrs mogherini, by remembering fernando albán and thinking of his murder and also thinking of corina machado who is fighting for her life at this moment.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the schengen agreement since the beginning of the year. for all this, we need to improve the schengen information system. we have spent about six months in interinstitutional negotiations on sis, half the time we spent on the previous reform. in the past half year we have fought for more security, more freedom, more schengen for the citizens of europe. the reform of the schengen information system is adapting the system to the challenges posed by migration, responding to the new threats of terrorism and organised crime, taking advantage of technological developments and strengthening respect for fundamental rights, in particular data protection. at a time when the european union is accused of failing to respond in time to the needs of its citizens, the implementation of this reform will begin as early as the beginning of next year. for the first time, we have a deadline for the reform to come into force, and we have mechanisms to ensure greater control and transparency of costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. member states and the commission have to meet deadlines and budgets. within the cost schedule, the new sis must be fully operational. the impact of this reform is profound. the new schengen information system will change the way border police authorities share information across europe. we don't need more information, we need better information. let's better protect our children, not just when the worst has happened and we don't know where they are, but through new alerts for children at risk. we will be able to prevent these abductions or such dramatic realities as genital mutilation, but we will also improve the safety of everyone through closer monitoring of so-called foreign fighters and other criminals, through new means of information gathering, inquiry checks, through better biomedical data such as fingerprints and facial images. it will not only be possible to search for these elements, but also to search throughout europe for unknown perpetrators of crimes whose fingerprints have been found at the scene of the crime. we will improve controls at our external borders. we have carried out the biggest review of schengen entry bans ever. it will be virtually impossible for anyone refused entry by portugal to enter germany, but certain requirements will have to be met. we improve the responsiveness of the system, increase its processing capacity and strengthen its defenses against potential attacks, security problems or simple failures. and we call on the member states to be more effective. the response times of the sirene bureaux have been shortened and requests for information in cases concerning children or terrorism require an immediate response. last but not least, we have put sis at the heart of european action, providing access to frontex and europol, and further increasing the value of their action. i am confident, mr president, that tomorrow this house will approve without reservation the third reform of the schengen information system. i believe that more europe, more sis, allows for better information and better coordination, allows for more security and more freedom.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, and in particular mr carlos coelho, who has made an extraordinary contribution over the past few years in the european parliament to finding balanced and fair solutions in such a difficult sector. those who think that freedom can be guaranteed in a context of insecurity are sorely mistaken. there is no better breeding ground for the emergence of tyrannical solutions than a framework of insecurity. insecurity often generates a desire for excessive protection which immediately leads to the accreditation of tyrannies, and therefore we must have the notion that a free society must also be a secure society and we must strike a balance between these two dimensions, between the dimension of protecting the security of citizens and the dimension, of course, of respecting the fundamental rights of those same citizens. the work that has been carried out here is precisely in that direction: the modernisation of an essential instrument, the sis system, which is the fundamental instrument for ensuring the strengthening of security, particularly at the external borders, and at the same time safeguarding the fundamental rights of european citizens. we have nothing but reason to be satisfied with this work.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am grateful for the kind remarks made by several colleagues. i think it is clear that at the end of this debate the vast majority of those who spoke were defending the importance of the schengen information system, to ensure the freedoms of schengen, to stress that we need free movement with security and to recall that citizens' rights are also achieved by strengthening data protection, and we do this in this regulation. i am confident, as commissioner king said, that tomorrow we will be voting on the reform of the schengen information system. i would like to stress that this is the result of the work of a team made up of members from all the institutions, who worked very hard and very quickly to achieve this result. i would like to thank the whole team of our parliament, and our secretariat in particular, for the immense effort and dedication they have put into this dossier. i thank the council secretariat, the estonian and bulgarian presidency teams, with whom we have worked loyally and diligently to achieve the best possible result, and i regret the absence of austria from this debate on sis. i would like to thank the european commission's negotiating team, of course commissioners king and avramopoulos, who were crucial in drawing up the commitments that ensure the success of the schengen information system, my fellow rapporteurs, of course, i would like to thank them for the very constructive collaboration and approach throughout this process, and i would like to end with my colleague jeroen, my partner in this challenge, who could not have done better, we were a good team, thank you very much to all of you.
madam president, i would like to say to president tusk that we have indeed a serious situation when it comes to the european council not being able to deliver real solutions to the problems we are confronted with. we do, of course, have many external challenges but something that we know for sure is that we need to strengthen internal cohesion among europeans and the recipe for this is very clear. we need to address social inequalities by fully implementing the social pillar and we need to support investment into the future. we still do not have all the necessary means. at the heart of this you have a historic task, which is to complete, reform and rebalance the economic and monetary union. we have all the proposals on the table. we need the political will to complete the banking union, to reform the european stability mechanism and to create a budget capacity in the euro area in order to support member states to invest in the future. let me give you a concrete case. i come from portugal, which is recognised today as a country which is making a real effort to go beyond blind austerity and to make a real recovery and a real effort to change. but now we are stuck. we cannot go forward unless the economic and monetary union is properly reformed. these kinds of cases must be supported because, if they are not supported, you will start having cases like italy in other places in europe. this is the choice that the european council is confronted with. either we support countries which want to move ahead with social cohesion and turn to the future or we will have a fragmentation of the european union. the choice is there on the table of the next european council in december.
madam president, yet another european council that shows an exhausted integration process, with no solutions to the problems it has created and is feeding. the euro summit insists on forging an even more ironclad web of constraints to prevent any sovereign development project, especially if it is based on social progress. then they wonder at the consequences. the expedient, the old expedient of waving threats and external enemies, serves to justify the militaristic escalation, the arms race and the security drift at home. they are burning the money that is missing from economic and social cohesion. then marvel at the consequences. the insistence on a selective, exploitative, racist and xenophobic approach to the migration issue shows the true face of the european union and reveals the assimilation of far-right practices and conceptions. as regards the negotiations for the withdrawal of the united kingdom, we reaffirm the right of each people to decide its own destiny in a sovereign manner, including with regard to the withdrawal from the european union. and we stress once again that in any scenario the rights of migrant workers in the united kingdom must be respected.
madam president, mr tusk, when the council's conclusions on migration are written into history, there will be detention centres, there will be persecution of ngos, there will be brute force against those fleeing hunger or death, but there will be zero solidarity. and all this will coincide with the same period in which tax schemes and golden visas were implemented, giving residency and tax advantages to those with a lot of money, schemes that have already been denounced in successive reports for opening the door to money laundering and corruption. the difference is that a red carpet is extended to those who have money to buy rights and those who have nothing are left to die in the mediterranean. mr tusk, there is no shortage of heads of state in the council who invoke christian values, but it seems that there are no good samaritans left. they prefer fear, inhumanity and electoralism. the cost, mr tusk, is very high: it is the cost of the european project itself, it is the cost of democracy itself.
madam president, apart from brexit, the council has shown our governments to be stuck. it continues to fuel the business of human traffickers by not opening safe, controlled, legal pathways for migrants and refugees. they let poor people drown in the mediterranean while 18 member states sell golden visas to rich migrants, endangering european security, infiltrated, corrupted and captured by kleptocrats and mafias. without looking after the eurozone, the council is postponing taxing the digital giants via the cctb, while allowing criminal groups, including terrorists, to continue to finance themselves with carousel fraud without reforming vat. they call for interoperability, but most governments are not even making pnr operational, the passenger lists that they say are vital against terrorists, but that they have excluded private civilian flights, like the ones that brought the khashoggi murders to istanbul, and that in many european airports would not be checked. president tusk condemned this brutal murder here today, but the council did nothing to stop arms exports to the saudi dictatorship. no wonder they're here. it's been a year since the murder of journalist daphne anne caruana galizia. the perpetrators are still at large, with impunity, and joseph muscat, the man in charge of the investigation stationed in malta, has a seat on the european council. everyone sitting there should be ashamed.
the european council followed the pattern of other recent summits. its members addressed issues of great impact on the daily lives of people and businesses, but the absence of decisions capable of conveying confidence and strategic clarity made it another moment that will go down in history as an example of the lack of ambition in the european union's response to the challenges it faces. i would like to stress the progress made in the brexit negotiations, safeguarding the basic principles on which the process has been developed, protecting the rights of european citizens, pushing for a border model that does not undermine ireland's full membership and establishing the lines of force that can lead to future partnerships between the european union and the united kingdom. i also note the intention expressed to reach agreement by the end of the year on banking union and to continue the technical studies for the necessary reform of economic and monetary union. the council also took important steps in terms of internal security and the control of migration flows, but it was still notorious for its lack of an integrated and humanistic view of the threats and opportunities posed to the european union by the new geostrategic framework.
mr president, i also know the lisbon treaty quite well because i was part of the team of the portuguese presidency in charge of completing the negotiation of this treaty in lisbon back in 2007. let me make a clear point. the problem we have is not with the lisbon treaty. the problem we have is with the kind of policies we need to implement in order to deliver better european solutions. let’s be fair: when we focus on the treaty, the treaty has involved important progress when it comes to democracy. first of all, the fact that this parliament has extended co—decision in many, many new areas. this is really deepening european democracy. second, the lisbon treaty could pool sovereignty where this is needed: when we address climate change; when we negotiate trade agreements; when we affirm our monetary sovereignty. in all these areas we need stronger european sovereignty. this does not go against national sovereignty. this is to strengthen our control of the situation. i am now addressing the part of parliament and those members of the european parliament who are taking a position against the european union and the treaties of the european union. you are wrong. this is not the problem, and the solution is not to withdraw from the treaties. the solution is to change policies in favour of more economic and social convergence and more tax fairness. that’s for sure. so this is the way to go.
mr president, commissioner, in the context of the evaluation of the lisbon treaty, a conclusion that stands out: we are far from the promises and hopes which he embodied. to quote a portuguese poet, the european union is not yet fulfilled. if integration has advanced in the economy with the single market and in its political configuration as well, albeit with hesitations and contradictions, in the fields of justice and the courts, which are the other pole of the binomial democratic rule of law, nothing has been overlooked. justice, especially criminal justice, is too important a value in the process of european integration and cohesion to be left to the exclusive care of the member states. a state is only a state governed by the rule of law if it is a democratic state and it is only democratic if it is also a state governed by the rule of law. it is therefore urgent to transform eurojust into a general prosecutor's office of the union, and to set up a european court with exclusive jurisdiction to try a catalogue of crossborder crimes in the european union.
mr president, it should be remembered that the treaty of lisbon, adopted during the portuguese presidency in 2007, was an important step in the construction of europe, which overcame several years of institutional impasse, made it possible to value european citizenship and fundamental rights, strengthen the european parliament and democracy and simplify the decision-making processes of our institutions. i had the honour of participating in the european council that approved the treaty of lisbon and in the signing ceremony that took place in the monastery of the hieronymites. not all the problems have been solved, but i also know how difficult it was to reach that political agreement. so, ten years on, rather than a new complicated process of treaty reform, what we need is to harness the unused potential of the lisbon treaty to improve the functioning of our institutions and strengthen the european project. the lisbon treaty is not the problem, it remains part of the solution.
mr president, the present productivist model, which has been imposed on our farmers and livestock producers, puts us in a permanent health alert situation. they're new diseases that are emerging or old diseases that there are no effective drugs against. the regulation identifies the problem but deliberately omits the role of the multinationals, which are always seeking to maximise their monopoly income by discriminating against markets or deliberately delaying innovation. we agree with the principle of centralised authorisation, because it will limit the possibility of discriminating against markets, but we understand that support for innovation cannot be limited to giving more favors to multinationals by extending the duration of patents. veterinary research is crucial for the future of agriculture and this requires greater support or public research centres, so that science is at the service of agriculture and not at the service of some multinational companies.
mr president, the package of measures we are discussing here today is of enormous importance. the growing resistance to antibiotics is a huge threat. its infections kill at least 50,000 people a year in europe and the united states and 700,000 people worldwide. these numbers are expected to increase dramatically over the next 30 years with a projected 10 million deaths per year by 2050. a number that will exceed the deaths from cancer and diabetes unless we act, and i commend the rapporteurs, the rapporteurs, for the work they do. the limitation of the prophylactic use of microbial agents in animals will benefit from the establishment of community authorisation and monitoring procedures. the allocation of specific powers to the european medicines agency to authorise products for veterinary use through a centralised procedure is also very important. the strengthening of the regulatory framework for the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products is crucial. that is the direction we must continue to work in.
mr president, commissioner, antimicrobial resistance and the consequent ineffectiveness of treatments in the fight against disease is one of the greatest public health challenges we face today. the agricultural and livestock sectors have an increased responsibility in combating this challenge. this will have to go through the prevention and control of infections and the reduction of the need for the use of antibiotics through the application of high animal welfare standards. antibiotics should under no circumstances be used as a substitute for these standards, but the success of this fight also requires a commitment to research and innovation in order to stimulate the development of new antimicrobial agents, alternative therapies and diagnostics that contribute to reducing the use of antibiotics. the incentives for this research should be clearly present in our priorities. finally, i should like to congratulate our colleague, mrs clara aguilera, on her report.
mr president, promoting the use of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles is a priority, but the priority requires that public authorities take on increased responsibility for the use of road transport. they have to be an example and they have to be drivers for the implementation of smart, clean and inclusive mobility systems. the 75% target for the minimum percentage of clean vehicles to be included in public procurement by 2030 and the incentives for the use of zero-emission shelters are very important. first, to improve the air quality in cities by creating better living conditions and healthier environments. secondly, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the targets set in the paris agreement and, finally, to boost european industry towards the technological transition by creating more and better working conditions. but let us be pragmatic, commissioner, this priority, if it is to be a priority, must be reflected in the allocation of financial resources to the various cohesion, convergence and competitiveness programmes, which are essential to support the transition and to build the necessary infrastructure.
mr president, commissioner, with the bologna process and the reforms in higher education we have achieved greater recognition of qualifications between member states. what made our system fragile, which was the comparability of degrees with third countries, seems to have been solved. however, we have created a new problem in that some member states have not made the transition and have failed to equalise training between the pre-bologna past and the new post-bologna present. we cannot have member states with public calls for proposals requiring post-bologna training and leaving out citizens who have completed the same equivalent level of curriculum in the pre-bologna educational framework and in some cases even with more years of study and more ects. we talk about automatic recognition of diplomas between member states, but we seem to have forgotten to reconcile recognition with our recent past. at the level of transnational cooperation, using information and communication technologies, the recognition of qualifications of origin for access to regulated professions is done through the online platform of the internal market information system. you don't have to invent the wheel to do the same across the education system. i do not want to say that preparing future generations requires harmonizing education at european level. the diversity of curricula makes it possible to prepare citizens who are better adapted to the challenges of each member state and gives us greater adaptability to face the future. what is needed is for member states to agree on educational compliance targets with mutual recognition of the award of a degree, without this entailing the ratification of the content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the mastery of the national languages remains its greatest obstacle.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on the issue at hand concerning the lack of implementation of the reach regulation and, as a consequence, the extensive use of non-tested chemicals in the eu, the presidency and the council as a whole acknowledged the sentiments expressed by certain members of this house, as well as the commitment of the other institutions to addressing this issue. the presidency takes note of the report from the german federal institute for risk assessment, which has alerted us to the risks deriving from placing on the market potentially harmful chemicals without correctly assessing whether they are mutagenic, teratogenic or toxic. the presidency thanks members for drawing our attention to these risks and the magnitude of the problem. we also take note of the fact that the european chemicals agency (echa) agrees with the report’s overall assessment, confirming that the quality of data on chemicals in registration dossiers still needs to improve. this view is also shared by the presidency. in the 10 years since reach entered into force, safety in the eu has undoubtedly increased, but there is still much to do. both industry and the authorities must increase their efforts to improve the quality of safety information on chemicals. it should be stressed though that the council’s role in this process has recently been very limited as no new legislation in the area of reach has been proposed since the mid—term review in 2013. echa’s enforcement forum is currently designing tailored enforcement actions, together with member states, to increase compliance of the dossiers concerned. in instances such as these, it is to the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaties and as enforcer of union level legislation, that we should turn for guidance and action that is appropriate and justified. on that note, if you allow me, i would like to draw your attention to the second reach review, which was discussed in the council bodies earlier this year. this report showed that, in the 10 years since its entry into force, reach has become fully operational and is delivering results towards achieving its stated objectives. we should not lose sight of the progress made. the report, however, also identifies priorities and actions needed to further improve the application of the reach regulation. among these, it was noted that member states identified the quality of registration dossiers as the main issue that needs to be addressed in a timely manner. member states expressed concerns about two things; firstly, that some registration dossiers do not comply with the information requirement that the reach regulation lays down, and, secondly, how updates to registration dossiers can be ensured. as to time, in june of this year, the commission expressed its intention to work with the european chemicals agency and the member states to identify the reasons for the poor quality of dossiers’ updates. the commission also signalled that it would make the appropriate proposals for improvements to this system by the first quarter of 2019. the presidency is launching discussions on this issue in the council working groups concerned. moreover, the presidency is convening an international conference on the future chemicals policy in october in vienna and another one on green chemistry in november. the presidency will provide a progress report to the competitiveness council, as well as to the environmental council. the presidency would like to join the calls on the european chemicals agency, as well as on member states, to show that they are serious about protecting human health and the environment. we call on both industry and the authorities to increase their efforts on improving the quality of registration dossiers and, of course, the council also looks forward to any proposal that the commission may present in the future. i would like to conclude for now by expressing my gratitude for this opportunity to join in your discussion here today. i look forward to hearing your views and to conveying them back to my colleagues in the council.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am representing commissioner vella, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening. reach is the most comprehensive chemical legislation in the world. it was designed to address the knowledge gap on the chemicals manufactured and used in europe and to speed up risk reduction strategies for those substances that are harmful for health and harmful for the environment. the basic condition of reach is no data, no market. this means that companies must register the chemicals they make or import. without registration, the substance is not allowed on the market. in these registration dossiers, the companies must detail the impact of the chemicals on human health and the environment, and how to manage those risks. prior to registration, the european chemicals agency assesses all dossiers for completeness. the chemicals agency and the member states’ competent authorities also carry out targeted evaluations to check that the dossiers comply with the legal requirements. the commission is aware of recent reports indicating that an estimated one—third of the registration dossiers are non—compliant. the need to improve compliance of registration dossiers was one of the main findings of the second review carried out earlier this year, and specific actions are already being taken to address this issue. for example, we have asked and tasked the european chemicals agency to increase the efficiency of the evaluation procedures by 2019. we would like to stress that already now when a dossier is found to be non—compliant, it must be remediated by the respective company and brought into compliance. the reach regulation requires the chemicals agency to check the compliance of at least 5% of all registration dossiers. the agency does this by targeted compliance checks of the registration dossiers that matter most through its so-called integrated regulatory strategy. we are also looking at incentives to companies to regularly review the registration dossiers and update them when necessary. we should not lose sight of the fact that the reach review confirmed that, overall, reach is functioning and meeting its objectives, notwithstanding what i have just said. by the last registration deadline in may this year, more than 21 000 substances in 90 000 registration dossiers were registered at the european chemicals agency. this is a large amount of information unique in the world and it represents much more and better information on substances that are on the eu market, in 10 years. the reach review also confirmed that reach improved risk management of chemicals by companies as well as communication and safety along the supply chains. reach has also led to the listing of 191 substances of very high concern on the candidate list. this is in addition to the 68 entries on the restrictions list which represents hundreds of hazardous substances that are now banned. altogether, this means that hazardous chemicals are being replaced by safer alternatives. the evaluation procedure will help identify more substances of concern, i have no doubt. enforcement is, of course, of huge importance and this is the responsibility of member states. coordination of their activities through the enforcement forum is proving reasonably satisfactory at eu and national level. based on the findings of the reach review, i strongly believe that reach has already contributed to the protection of eu citizens’ health and the environment, but there is much more work needed to be done to improve implementation. i am calling on the constructive cooperation of all parties involved to improve the effectiveness of our legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, it is thanks to reach that europe has one of the most extensive chemical databases in the world, but progress over the last ten years has not been fast enough or transparent enough and the challenges we had in 2009 in assessing the two years of the opening of the agency are the same as we have today. it should be noted that of the 40 000 registrations, only four have been rejected, which is much less than the rejections before the implementation of reach. of course, we must take into account that echa only has to carry out follow-up checks on about 5% of the dossiers, yes, only 5%. the commission will think that the reach procedure is a success because it imposes barriers to entry through market access requirements and that is why there are only four rejections, but no. the evaluation carried out by the german federal institute for risk assessment and the german environment agency concluded that the number of substances complying with the criteria for biotic and abiotic grading of bioaccumulation and ecotoxicity never exceeded 50%. furthermore, the evaluation of this institute considered that the standard requirements are not well applied in the dossiers because they use experimental data or parallel data, or do not provide full justification for the absence of data. chemicals need to be taken more seriously and echa has a greater responsibility for its evaluation. one third of the large-volume chemicals manufactured or imported into the union since 2010 do not comply with the rules aimed at protecting health and the environment. we are talking about mutagenic substances with environmental toxicity that affect biodiversity and with human toxicity that can induce health problems such as metabolic, oncological and endocrine diseases. the commission is certainly aware that there are other dangerous chemicals which we use regularly with a much tighter legal mesh, medicines, but here the collaboration between member states is much greater. the regulation does not have to be the same for chemicals and pharmaceuticals, but to protect public health. we need european agencies which can act as competent authorities and which are impervious to the interests of market self-regulation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, according to a study recently published by the german environment agency, since 2010 one third of chemicals produced or imported into the european union have violated european standards to protect public health or the environment. only 31% of the chemicals investigated were declared legally compliant. many companies are therefore in breach of reach by not informing the european chemicals agency whether the substances they are marketing are carcinogenic or harmful. millions of tons of these substances have been dumped into the production of all kinds of industrial and consumer goods, from paint, packaging, furniture to building materials. exposure to many types of industrial chemicals, mainly through skin respiration, is a major cause of the increasing rates of metabolic diseases, hormonal cancers and neurological diseases. the un special rapporteur on hazardous substances and wastes has warned that incessant exposure to toxic substances can create a silent pandemic of disease. that is why it is urgent to change this scenario. concrete actions are needed to verify and strengthen the implementation of reach. we must put into practice the principle 'no data, no market', i.e. put an end to the automatic granting of non-compliant or insufficient registrations. we have adequate and world-class health and environmental protection rules. that is why we must ensure that it is implemented.
madam president, the regulation of the use of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, based on the definition of design and manufacturing rules, clinical trials, authorization, marketing and post-market surveillance, has proved incapable of preventing the circulation of low-quality devices on our market, with serious consequences for users, and has revealed serious shortcomings in the legislative system. it is therefore important to highlight the work done in the european parliament on this subject, which has given rise to several proposals to improve the functioning, reliability and safety of these devices. it is true that some member states have reacted less enthusiastically to the definition of shared regulatory frameworks because there is effectively a legislative reservation in health matters. however, the european commission and the european parliament's dedicated work in dialogue, which is always essential with the member states, has made it possible to take significant steps in cooperation in the fields of health quality promotion, which have, as in this case, a clearly cross-border dimension. the strengthening of the regulation of in vitro diagnostic medical devices to ensure such important tests as pregnancy tests or blood tests is precise, must be accurate and reliable and sets a good example where such cooperation between member states is important and needs to be further strengthened. the regulatory framework, which entered into force on 25 may 2017, with a transition period of 3 and 5 years respectively, ensures good quality of these devices and consequent protection of patients. however, during this transposition period, difficulties in implementing the system have been identified, in particular in making cooperation between member states and the european bodies operational. the issue of the certification of medical devices in the united kingdom is also relevant, as after its withdrawal from the european union, all notified bodies based in the united kingdom will no longer be able to carry out conformity assessments in line with european legislation. health promotion is legally an intergovernmental competence, but the best interests of citizens require partnerships and concerted responses. that is why the questions put to the commission are of great importance and the answers deserve our full attention and follow-up.
we got here after a lot of teamwork. i welcome all the rapporteurs, the commission and the council as well. but the key issue now is to bring together the national authorities, the regional authorities, the citizens, to form this team. this is a great strategic opportunity for the economy, for the environment, for the quality of life. we have to make it happen. as shadow co-rapporteur for the energy union governance, i would like to leave a very special word to my colleague theresa griffin, who has been with me in a stimulating work to strengthen the inclusive, sustainable and innovative dimension of the new european energy policy. i would like to highlight some of the results of this regulation. sectoral targets are incorporated. they may not have been the most ambitious, but they are important to meet: 32.5% in energy efficiency, 32% in renewables by 2030. the implementation of the ten-year plans, the comparability of these plans, the coverage of the five dimensions of the energy union is very important. we are already taking steps towards decarbonising transport, and that is where we must continue, and we must push for participatory governance, establishing a multilateral dialogue and requiring a very strong mobilisation of civil society. i also stress the introduction of long-term strategies, with the climate strategy, so that we can align progress with the paris agreement. and also just transition. it is very important that citizens, regions, feel that there is a sense of justice in the energy transition, of win-win for all in a fair way, strengthening regional cooperation between member states and between them and the union. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we will adopt this package tomorrow with a clear majority, but that is not the end of the road, that is the starting point. now we must all do our part with urgency and commitment, with the same enthusiasm with which we have worked on this package in the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome your comments. the main and ultimate objective of the common fisheries policy is that the activity be carried out in the most sustainable way possible, not only from an economic point of view but also from a social, economic and environmental point of view. all scientific advice shows that the situation of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic is critical and that additional specific and concrete management measures to enable the recovery of the stocks of bivalve molluscs and sardines must be implemented as a matter of urgency. the proposal adopted by the committee on fisheries is already limited in time, since the proposed management measures are limited to 2022 and make very little change to the measures currently in place, which the various scientific opinions indicate are not sufficient. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the amendments tabled by the socialists and democrats seek to ensure that scientific information collected annually is used to define the catches that will allow reproductive biomass to be maintained at a level close to constant. the s&d group believes that only these additional measures will be able to maintain this fishery and prevent the collapse of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic. the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries concludes that there will be a collapse in small pelagic stocks if only measures such as those proposed by the rapporteur are maintained. the evaluations of the fao general fisheries commission for the mediterranean are also in the same vein. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the fisheries sector. mrs. tomašić, there can be a sea with fish and no fishermen, there can be a sea with fish and fishermen. one thing is certain: there can be no sea without fish and with fishermen. without a constant biomass of available breeders, there will be no recruitment, and just as there are no spontaneous generations in nature, without recruitment there will be no fish, and without fish there will be no fishermen.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to greet the commissioner, the representative of the council, all my colleagues and all my colleagues. parliament is united and there is great heterogeneity even within each group. we have a majority position, we've done our homework. the council is not ready, parliament is ready to start negotiations. if the council delays, there is a risk that programmes such as erasmus+, direct payments to farmers, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, support for researchers, innovation, support for the regions, social cohesion, territorial cohesion will be interrupted. madam president-in-office, i have a question for the president-in-office, but she is not listening to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, do you not think that the european union needs predictability, it needs stability and that this is the only way to give confidence? why is the council good at proclaiming and bad at acting? we don't just need statements, we need actions. i have another question: do you think the next parliament will have a better majority in favour of european union and will it be able to get a better agreement for the next multiannual financial framework? there's one point where i agree with you. he says that the multiannual financial framework is not just about numbers and i ask him why they are only concerned about the ceiling, which is a number. the only thing they care about is 1% of gni. don't you think our methodology is more correct? what are we gonna do? method of addition. what's that? what's that? we put a value on each policy, we added it up, and it ended up being 1.3 percent of gni. how do they do it? the method of subtraction. the numbers: 1% and then they're distributing. the wrong methodology. the european union needs to act and respond to the challenges it faces, and that is why we support the multiannual financial framework adopted during this parliamentary term.
madam president, here in the european parliament we want a budget that looks to the future and is able to respond to the new challenges in the coming years. climate change, the digital revolution, but also tackling social inequality and reducing poverty. we need strong instruments to support economic and social cohesion in the european union. this means a regional fund, financing future infrastructure; this means a social fund, implementing the social pillar everywhere. but it also means that in the euro area we have to introduce new instruments that do not yet exist and that end the economic and social divergence that has had enormous political costs. the euro area, like all the world's monetary zones, needs a banking union that ensures that investors and small and mediumsized enterprises have equal access to credit to launch new projects, and above all, it needs a euro area budget that supports future instruments, good public services, and the focus on education and training, without which there is no future. the portuguese case is highly illustrative. under the socialist government we have changed economic policy, we have resumed employment growth, but we know perfectly well that our efforts can only have an effect and guarantee more solid prosperity if they are supported by this reform of the euro zone which can no longer be delayed. (the speaker accepts the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer. – i don’t think that we need to reduce the power of national states. what we need to do is to strengthen this power by combining it with the power of the european union in order to get the necessary resources to finance our budgets. a very good example is digital taxation. yes, we need to use the full power of the european union to impose on the big operators of the digital economy their duty to pay their taxes in the single market. like that, we can finance better public services at national level. so europe is a must for the power of national states and not a way to reduce it.
madam president, this proposal for a multiannual financial framework, with cuts in the common agricultural policy, cuts in cohesion policy and an increase in the security and defence headings, is not an accident of course. it is part of a continuity that comes from the past and reveals, in an eloquent way, the genetic code of this european union and its liberal and militarist matrix. this proposal for a mff is not good for portugal or for europe. in addition to the cuts which include support for the outermost regions of the azores and madeira, we will have a strengthening of macroeconomic conditionality, tying cohesion policy to the european semester. we shall see a sharp increase in the co-financing of the national states and we shall also see a greater predominance of financial instruments. in other words, far from offsetting the impacts of the single market and euro policies on the peripheral economies, this proposal will reinforce the asymmetries between countries, strengthening the richest at the expense of the poorest. this is the solidarity of the european union.
in writing. the proposal for the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-2027 presented by the european commission is profoundly negative for portugal and for europe. by cutting back on cohesion and the common agricultural policy, and increasing the 'security' and 'defence' headings, this proposal will accentuate the asymmetries between countries, doubly penalising peripheral economies that are being badly shaken by the asymmetrical impact of the single market, common eu policies and the euro and their instruments of economic governance. in addition to the cuts, the proposal for the mff contains other unacceptable aspects, among which we highlight a significant increase in national participation in the implementation of the structural funds, a greater predominance of financial instruments, a clear strengthening of macroeconomic conditionality, seeking to link the implementation of the structural funds to the european semester, and the creation of new forms of political conditionality. we have tabled dozens of amendments to the mff and to the european parliament's position, aimed at strengthening cohesion, eliminating the cap and posei cuts and reversing the expected sharp increase in military expenditure, including on armaments development, and the impetus for the ongoing security drift. the question is not when the mff will be approved (before or after may 2019), but whether it will be acceptable for portugal.
madam chancellor, i would like to welcome you to this debate on the future of europe. debating the future of europe is responding to the aspirations of 500 million citizens, but it is also defending the planet, the future of the planet, its sustainability, the fight against inequalities, less poverty, better trade agreements. i have often disagreed with you, but i know that you are a strong europeanist and a strong supporter of european values. i know that you know that the european union, in order to be strong in the world, must be cohesive and convergent internally. for that, madam chancellor, we need to be ambitious and make the euro area a balanced monetary area with its own resources. it says here: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what will you do, madam chancellor, to help reform the eurozone and strengthen the european budget?
mr president, (inaudible introduction - microphone off) to move forward along the democratic path and towards euro-atlantic integration despite the many challenges, from oligarchic influence to russian occupation and other difficult neighbourhoods. it was demonstrated by the peaceful and competitive conduct of the first round of the presidential elections at the end of october, which i had the honour of observing in this parliament. the campaign environment has become tense, however, with an escalation of polarized attacks. it is essential that all, officials, candidates and media, assume their responsibilities to avoid exacerbating polarization and fomenting hatred. attacks on each other's patriotism and sexist abuse of the female candidate are unacceptable in a democratic society and certainly do not serve the people of georgia. as regards moldova, i share the rapporteur's very worried and somber assessment. the level of capture is alarming. moldova is used to launder dirty money and to foment corruption and crime. the european union cannot continue to whistle aside, calling for restraint, but doing nothing.
i think that the debate on initial currency offers should start with questions as simple as they are fundamental. what are initial coin offerings or virtual currencies for? why should expensive systems that aim to generate trust by dispensing with and evading public regulation have anything to offer from the point of view of the public interest? behind much ideological boasting about a wonderful new financial world, endless schemes of tax evasion, money laundering, speculation or outright fraud have been revealed. we are ready to discuss any regulatory effort that will adequately address these problems. if this regulatory effort is successful, which is not always the case, we may see a sudden decline in the already declining levels of interest in these types of transactions. if so, that is all right with us, but we are not prepared to continue with this pseudo-legislative ping-pong that misleads people and solves absolutely nothing.
commissioner, i'm struck by your complacent excitement about blockchain technology and the cryptocurrencies it underpins. it's in line, at the bottom, with member states like malta, where the prime minister recently said at the united nations that europe was the island of blockchain, which is highly concerning because it's obvious that mafia organizations have been taking advantage of these unregulated technologies, which are therefore the backbone of cryptocurrencies, to launder money, to evade taxes and to finance all kinds of crime, including terrorism. esma and eba have been warning of the risks to consumers exposed to these fraudulent and speculative schemes. economist nouriel roubini has been denouncing cryptocurrencies as shitcoins and the blockchain technology that underpins it as the most overvalued technology ever. the nobel prize in economics, stiglitz, warns that you can't have a payment method based on secrecy when you're trying to create a transparent financial system. if we open a hole with a bitcoin, then all the nefarious and illegal activities will go through that hole and no government should allow that, let alone the european commission, mr commissioner. please, regulate, regulate and do not leave this fragmentation that we are already seeing in several member states. regulate and don't let these virtual currencies and so-called initial coin offerings etc. be seen as an el dorado. if they are real financial transactions, then they have to be treated as such and regulated like crowdfunding or capital raising transactions. it is urgent that the commission should prevent dangerous drifting like the one we are seeing in malta and produce european regulation that will close the loophole for crime and european governments must also urgently ensure that their fius and other law enforcement agencies have the technological and human resources to disrupt criminal applications of these dangerously deceptive technologies and end the impunity of the criminals who exploit them.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has really been a very useful exchange, and i thank my dear colleagues for their interventions. but i take this opportunity to say something very concrete: from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in finding common solutions to global challenges such as migration, and the global compact is the definition of a common solution, because it is a global response; it is a global solution. i think the global compact will definitely help us to manage human mobility in a much more orderly and effective way. and in particular for europe – because for us, as europeans, the problem of migration is so important, because all neighbours around us want to come to europe. so this is the best way; this is the best instrument to deal with mobility and to have a sort of good argument to advocate for a global solution. this is my strong conviction. i close by signalling once again my appreciation of the european parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda. i think it is not necessary to repeat my arguments from my first intervention.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, dear commissioner, i consider the discussion we had as very useful and i would like to thank you for sharing your thoughts and also your concerns very openly. to conclude i would only like to recall one thing, and it was mentioned by some of you: there is no common position of the eu as such.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission has been carefully following the work on the report on european humanitarian visas, prepared by the rapporteur, mr lópez aguilar. we take note of the calls on the commission to make a proposal on a european humanitarian visa by the end of march 2019. we also believe that in order to better manage migration comprehensively, we need to enhance legal and safe avenues to the eu for third-country nationals in need of international protection. increasing resettlement from turkey or niger is part of the solution to engaging with third countries and reducing irregular arrivals. at the same time, we believe that the greatest potential for reaching this common objective lies, at this point in time, in the swift adoption of the union resettlement framework regulation proposed by the commission in july 2016. it will be the first legislative instrument of its kind to better coordinate member states’ resettlement efforts, which until now have been the result of a combination of national or international programmes. i commend the efforts of parliament that have contributed greatly towards reaching a common position within the council. but both co-legislators need to take the last steps to transform the preliminary agreement into the final adoption of the proposal. the commission stands ready to provide all the support needed. we believe it is of utmost importance not to risk complicating the adoption of the union resettlement framework regulation, which now requires our full attention. it seems therefore appropriate that the commission includes in the evaluation of the future union resettlement framework regulation an assessment of whether or not it covers, as intended, the main legal and safe avenues for international protection in the eu.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. mr president, i take over for my colleague malin björk, who cannot be here today. approximately 90% of those receiving international protection in the european union arrive by irregular means. since 2000, 30,000 people have died crossing borders; 17,000 in the mediterranean since 2014 alone. in the eu, some 1 000 km of walls have been built. the european union cannot discharge itself of the causes of this very serious humanitarian crisis. instead of solidarity, it imposes greater restrictions on the application for international protection. asylum seekers are forced to risk their lives to reach safety, placing themselves in the hands of human trafficking networks. women, children and lgbt people are the most vulnerable at any stage of the migration process, have the most difficulty in accessing protection tools and are particularly subject to physical, psychological and sexual violence, often dragged into networks of sexual exploitation and slave labour. humanitarian aid, although insufficient, must be an agile response that provides the mechanisms, structures and technical and human resources necessary to protect those involved, with particular attention to the most vulnerable - women and children.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the code of conduct. i would like to highlight a few, among them the independence of national regulatory authorities, a more effective and regulated electronic communications system (this is fundamental), greater guarantees for consumers, especially with regard to communications on tariffs related to communications between different countries, higher speed and 5g, but we also need to ensure equal access, we need to ensure that all this reaches all citizens. there are also dimensions relating, for example, to the issues of updating telecommunications rules and the response that needs to be given to connectivity between different citizens and in different countries. we are talking about a package which certainly seeks to modernise the current telecommunications rules, but none of this can be done on the basis of competition alone. the need for regulation has already been mentioned here and i would like to draw attention to another issue which i consider to be fundamental: and so, communications is a very sensitive area, and so it's not just about the coding infrastructure that we're talking about, but also what the threats to the maintenance and management of communications might be. we must therefore ensure that the public sector can always buy back the basic networks for the provision of communications services, such as emergency management networks, civil protection or audiovisual signals. this is fundamental to preventing some disasters from happening in our communications.
madam president, commissioner, the stated political objective of this telecommunications legislative package is to create the large and liberalised european telecommunications market. the european union's electronic communications regulatory body, which the european commission wanted to give agency status, was set up to help shape the technical and political guidelines for the completion of this large open and liberalised market. the contradictions between the interests of the member states, especially some of them, and those of those who want a fully liberalised communications sector, putting aside what they consider to be inconvenient national interests, are obvious. it should be remembered that this was a public sector, dominated by public enterprises in several european countries, public because it was strategic and, because it was strategic, public must be again. the damage caused by privatisation and liberalisation to the people, to national interests, to the public interest is clearly visible; the benefits are only for the multinationals in the sector, which promote and benefit from monopolistic concentration on a european scale. this is a path that should be reversed and not pursued. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mrs kumpula-natri, i thank you for your question and what i can answer you, from the experience of my country, portugal, is how the privatisation of a strategic company that dominated the sector, that was at the forefront of innovation and that fulfilled a set of public interest missions, called into question the public interest and, in practice, led to the dismantling of this company, which is now dominated by a large french telecommunications group. that is what the liberalization advocated by you and other groups means. it is losing public control over a strategic sector of the economy, to the detriment of the national interest, the people, the consumers, the businesses and the public interest.
the european union must prepare to take advantage of the ongoing digital revolution to affirm a common vision of technological development at the service of citizens. the paris call, signed on 12 december by 51 countries and hundreds of companies and organisations, and to which the countries of the european union have enthusiastically joined, should be a reference for the implementation of the telecom package in terms of infrastructure development, regulation and access. the package discussed today proposes an integrated approach, flexible but with appropriate levels of assurance and predictability to make business investment viable. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. a system of warning in the event of natural disasters or terrorist attacks, which is mandatory throughout the union, is also established. i would also stress that the wifi4eu initiative, as part of the telecoms package, is key to enhancing equity in european citizens' access to high quality internet and its success and quality of implementation should be a priority for the european commission.
madam president, when i was a member of the european parliament's committee of inquiry into car emissions, there was one number that particularly struck me. four hundred thousand european citizens die prematurely every year because of poor air quality. therefore, decarbonising transport is a citizens' imperative for economic, environmental and public health reasons. heavy goods vehicles are responsible for 6% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the eu. we need to have a significant share of new, low-emission heavy-duty vehicles to reduce emissions in this sector by 35%. it is a challenge for european industry to develop, produce and market zero- and low-emission heavy-duty vehicles in europe and beyond. research in this field should be encouraged and supported, but it is not enough to support industry. a high percentage of freight transport operators in the european union are smes. it is also essential to provide a robust incentive structure to support them. we can't be left behind. we must aim to lead in innovative technologies for reducing emissions in transport to meet the paris agreement, but above all to improve the quality of life of european citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report once again after the committee on the environment had adopted by a large majority the best compromise, which simultaneously advocates convergence with the ecological targets set by the paris agreement and the protection of social interests and which, moreover, also brings economic benefits. this is the true win-win solution. we are at a time when we cannot afford to fail to make commitments. i therefore reiterate the importance of introducing penalties for failure to meet co2 emission targets, alongside incentive measures for zero-emission vehicles. these penalties must be effective and cannot be set at less than the cost of the technological transition itself. if we do not, we will end up with the ridiculous idea that it is cheaper to pay fines than to make the necessary investments. we have to be consistent. the co2 correction factor for alternative high-performance fuels is already covered by the renewable energy directive ii. this kind of measure would lead to double benefit, which makes no sense in this regulation, since car manufacturers would be benefiting from an effort which is, in fact, made by the producers of these fuels. fellas, there is only one future... (the president cut the speaker off)
i think it is important, first of all, to realise that in the digital world, or as it was called before in the virtual world, the threats to transparency, to the principles of immunity and independence in electoral processes, if you will, to the pillars of democracy, are not virtual threats, they are not digital threats, they are real threats. and so it's critical that, in light of the experience of the last few years and particularly what is suspected to have happened in the case of brexit and the brexit referendum, which may have happened in the 2016 us elections, which may be happening in some movements, such as, for example, the movements regarding the question of catalonia and whether there should be more autonomy, less autonomy, independence or non-independence. what we find is that, digitally, there is constant interference in these processes and interference whose author we are unable to identify and often whose design we are unable to identify. and so it is with this new challenge to the issues of immunity, impartiality and transparency in the electoral process, but also in the debate which precedes the electoral process, that we have to review the procedures of public bodies and, in particular, of the bodies responsible for the electoral process, whether at national or european level. the first and most important point is data protection. we have already taken an important step when we have set up the framework through this regulation for data protection in which the european union is highly innovative. it is true that the commission itself has already put forward a number of ideas and proposals to combat cyberattacks, but we may have to go further. we have to go further and look at these threats as, i would say, global threats. and here i would like to introduce one more factor before i say which are the two areas in which i think we should act. we're dealing with external threats here. that is the subject of this current debate: external threats. but let's not kid ourselves, there are also internal threats. i mean, in this digital world, whether it's cyberattacks, whether it's the misuse of the data that's collected, there can be both internal agents and external agents, because the adversaries of democracy, the adversaries of transparency, the adversaries of exemption are not just foreign powers. we have evidence that they are acting in their geostrategic interest, but there is no doubt that there are also groups and entities within our borders, within the borders of europe, that have the same designs or that have designs of the same kind. and here i would say that we must act in two fundamental areas: one is the area of regulation of data processing and the protection of citizens in general and their data, and this goes to operators in general and also goes to companies, foundations, political parties, public authorities. and then we have to have another concern, which is a concern already of a criminal nature. it's a second concern, because no matter how many rules and safeguards we have, there will always be cyberattacks, there will always be criminals who have some success. and we must have technological conditions and police investigative conditions that allow us also to prevent and repel and punish these kinds of attacks, whether they are foreign attacks, whether they are domestic attacks.
mr president, politics has always been accompanied by information and counter-information strategies. today, however, the technological association allows for much more and promotes massive disinformation campaigns, designed to target and manipulate specific sectors of the electorate. the virus of misinformation is infecting the entire spectrum of political communication, casting doubt on even that information that is correct, and this misinformation can become lethal to democracy. i welcome the paris appeal, signed on 12 november and endorsed by 51 countries, including all european countries, as the manifesto to help ethical values and the rule of law prevail in the new digital society. the strategy proposed by the european commission to combat disinformation online will be put to the test in the next european elections. the truth is that we need a massive citizen coalition to make this strategy successful.
mr president, fake news is a reality of our times. they are another factor to be taken into account in the different variables of the electoral disputes that we obviously have to combat. but anyone who believes that the partisan reconfiguration we've seen in recent years, from russia to the united states to the european union, is all because of fake news is missing the point. some political forces, usually left-wing, have been colonizing the classical media for decades. since then, they've created all the narratives of political correctness: what can be said and what can't be said. and then they felt entitled to attack politicians who didn't follow their lead. political officeholders have become afraid to speak their minds, afraid of the media reaction. voters, for their part, have stopped hearing common-sense answers to concrete problems. and those who took advantage of the vacuum were all the extremists, also helped by fake news. anyone who does not understand this will hardly be able to help combat what is one of the worst phenomena of our times.
mr president, commissioners jourová and king, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, in april of this year i asked the european commission about cybersecurity and safeguarding the integrity of european elections. no reply was given for many months, but finally on 12 september a package of measures was presented, for which i congratulate the european commission. in 2019, as already mentioned, there will be new elections to the european parliament. we all want to prevent any election manipulation. we are not naive and we know that there are many external forces, political, state, economic and military, who want to influence the electoral process, whether through fake news, the use of large amounts of data for electoral manipulation, or through funding extremist parties that want to destroy the european project. we all recall, as european commissioner jourová has already done, the shame of the facebook/cambridge analytica case and the strong evidence of russian interference in elections in europe, all of them using the digital world and the new information and communication technologies. it is therefore essential to safeguard the rights of european citizens in these elections. cybersecurity is more than ever a priority in the defence of the union's fundamental rights. it is essential that the commission and the member states take the necessary technical and organisational measures to manage the risks posed to the security of the network and information systems used in elections to the european parliament. in a europe contaminated by selfishness and populism, many will not look to any means to destroy the european project and to fight the europe of values and freedoms. we must act quickly for freedom.
mrs president, commissioner, persistent organic pollutants, of which perhaps the most media-worthy are ddt and dioxins, as the name suggests, persist in the environment, contaminating natural habitats and are highly toxic to us, humans, and other living beings. we know that most of these pollutants are, in fact, endocrine disruptors, which means that they affect the health and reproduction of a number of animal species, including our own. i therefore believe that strong measures are needed to eliminate these types of pollutants and to prevent ecotoxicity and bioaccumulation with exponential consequences for humans. as regards the permissible dust limits, we must impose the same rules on recycled products as we already impose on virgin products, without creating a duality of criteria or a difference in quality between products. in other words, encouraging the circular economy means ensuring consumer safety, especially as the amount of recycled source material is only likely to increase. we need to reassure citizens that they can rest assured that food, children's toys and everyday utensils are not contaminated with these highly dangerous substances.
mr president, by pulling russia out of this treaty, trump may in fact be playing putin's dangerous game, because the treaty has effectively reduced the risks of military escalation, operational miscalculation and has helped shift the mad logic from the cold war to that of dialogue between russia and the united states. even if there is a breach of the treaty by moscow and even if trump also aims to renegotiate with russia, and even indirectly aims at containing china's nuclear capability, the risks of escalation and catastrophe are tremendous, because russia today may be tempted to compensate for weakness in conventional forces by resorting to the use of its nuclear capabilities and in the middle is europe. it's insane not to see that our security and global security is at stake. the european union cannot stand still and fall. it must intervene in some way and try to negotiate with both of them so that we actually see a real reduction in these intermediate-range nuclear forces in russia, but also in all the others that have them.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the high representative / vice—president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this important exchange. i think it has highlighted the importance of the preservation of the intermediate—range nuclear forces (inf) treaty for european and global security, as well as our common preoccupation with the increased threats to our security. disarmament, arms control and non—proliferation treaties and agreements like the treaty on the non—proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) and inf constitute our first line of defence. dismantling such multilateral security arrangements and institutions is in nobody’s interest. because i was asked very explicitly, i would also like to answer the question as to whether i believe we can rescue the inf. yes, of course, i do believe that. we mustn’t give up on that, and must put all our efforts into the rescue of the inf. i also believe that debates like the one today in the european parliament remind people, including decision makers in moscow and washington, of the value of the inf treaty for european and global security and the stake that we in europe have in this treaty’s future. by the way, the inf is only one contribution to article 6 of the npt, so a lot more has to be done in the future. allegations that the russian federation has begun producing and developing new missiles which could be aimed at eu countries, and which are not in compliance with russia’s treaty obligations, deserve to be treated seriously and need to be resolved. this should happen through a responsible dialogue, including at the highest level. the stakes are simply too high.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the ongoing caravans of migrants walking across central america and mexico turned public attention towards a silent exodus that has been ongoing for years. every country in the world has every right to protect its borders and every country in the world has the obligation to do so in full respect of human rights and the principle of non—refoulement, as well as the norms on international protection. this applies to europe and its member states as it applies to everyone else, including the united states. but beyond looking at the consequences, let me take this opportunity also to also look at the symptoms. every day, hundreds of people from honduras, guatemala and el salvador begin the journey to the united states. today migrants are more visible as part of caravans walking in broad daylight, accompanied by ngos and tv crews. they are all fleeing poverty and hunger, but fear seems to be the main driver of these migrations. the northern triangle countries are among the poorest in latin america with one third, or even half, of the population living on less than eur 5 a day. half of the unemployed are young people so it is hardly surprising that many of them decide to leave their country and look for a better future. natural disasters have also been a strong driver for migration from the region. today they are aggravated by the dire effects of climate change, in particular droughts and floods. all these factors combine and today the migrants are also fleeing death, violence and extortion. between 2010 and 2017, over 100 000 homicides were recorded in the northern triangle. it is probably no coincidence that the first of these recent caravans started in san pedro sula, which is one of the most violent cities in the world. the european union has been supporting countries in the region in a twofold approach, providing immediate relief and tackling the root causes. in terms of humanitarian assistance, the commission is implementing a program of eur 2.5 million to address the needs of people affected by violence in the northern triangle. concerning the caravan, the commission is currently looking into possibilities to respond to humanitarian needs, in particular regarding the protection of vulnerable children and women against trafficking. in honduras we are investing about eur 200 million in decent employment and food security, as well as strengthening the rule of law and access to justice. in guatemala support amounting to over eur 150 million is focused on food security, competitiveness security, security and human rights. in el salvador we are investing about eur 150 million. we support the national strategy to fight violence with a focus on prevention, including support to community organisations on the return of young people to the education system and on the construction of safe public spaces. the eu also funds social programmes such as ‘ciudad mujer’ an innovative approach to provide women with psychological and legal support and training for entrepreneurship. efforts to address security challenges at national level go hand in hand with reinforced regional cooperation against transnational crime and drug trafficking. regional cooperation is equally important for the development of the region, including the creation of economic opportunities. the association agreement between the eu and central america opens our markets to central american businesses. once fully ratified, the political and cooperation dimensions of the agreement will further reinforce our partnership. the eu is – and will remain – a reliable partner to the countries in the region in addressing the migration challenges, combining response to immediate needs with action on the root causes. migration is a global challenge that requires global solutions and global responsibility sharing. through international cooperation with our partners, we can turn migration from a common challenge into a shared opportunity for human development. i know that the parliament has always supported this approach so i thank you for this debate and look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called migrants' march which started on 13 october from the city of san pedro sula, and as the commissioner has said, one of the most dangerous cities in the world, in northern honduras, was joined by thousands of migrants from guatemala and el salvador. whole families follow on foot in caravans, with their eyes fixed on the united states. according to save the children, one in four of the members of this caravan are children and adolescents. lack of opportunity, extreme violence and endemic poverty in the northern triangle of central america have led these families to leave their homeland and embark on this journey that, while arduous, offers more security than solitary migration and avoids paying thousands of dollars to smugglers. many of these victims of economic misery and social exclusion also face persecution, forced recruitment and abduction by groups linked to organized crime, from local maras to transnational drug traffickers, a pattern that is unfortunately now being reproduced in nicaragua as well. these people are not criminals, as president trump never tires of repeating. they are victims of criminal organizations that, with violence and impunity, pretend to rule them, and they seek only to live in security and to find work that will enable them to support their families, as did thousands of europeans who fled to the united states in the 19th and 20th centuries to escape violence, discrimination and hunger. president trump, who in the 22 months of his presidency has demonized immigration, has promised to stop those now trying to reach his country under the guise of protecting american citizens from criminals and an impending invasion and has announced the deployment of troops to the southern united states and the militarization of the border. the chances of them being granted asylum are therefore slim, and many are at risk of being detained and separated from their families while awaiting court hearings that could end in a deportation order. this march of migrants and the one that started in the southern mexican city of tapachula last april, show that the hardening of asylum policies and mass deportations undertaken by the united states and mexico in recent years have failed and that their aim of deterring these flows and the announced cuts in economic aid to these countries will only aggravate the social chaos from which these people are fleeing. the european union should therefore continue to support regional integration efforts in central america and take the opportunity, within the framework of the association agreement with central america, to strengthen the political dialogue with the countries of the northern triangle on respect for human rights, the strengthening of the rule of law and the fight against drug trafficking and impunity. the union can also not fail to support the regional expansion of the un commission against impunity and to urge transit and destination countries to respect their international human rights obligations in all cross-border crossings. i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to the right to life of all migrants, regardless of their status, respect for the principle of non-refoulement and the prohibition of arbitrary and collective expulsions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the thousands who make up the caravan are fleeing the worsening social and economic conditions in their country and the violence of the death squads, a reality that is not detached from the coup d'état in honduras in 2009 promoted by the united states, or the results of the fraudulent elections in 2017, which were covered up by the european union. this tragic situation is caused by the strategy of destabilisation and interference in sovereign countries, which is being pursued by the united states and the european union, imposing relations of economic domination and plundering of resources that promote underdevelopment and dependence. alongside a rapid and united response to the humanitarian tragedies of migration, the fundamental response to migration flows is to tackle the causes that force millions of people around the world to leave their countries. it is about respect for the sovereignty and independence of states, the charter of the united nations, international law. it requires genuine development cooperation policies that guarantee rights, social progress and peace.
madam president, central america is going through a profound humanitarian crisis. the migrant caravan is a brutal picture of despair. thousands of people, mostly hondurans, children, women, young people, elderly people, want to flee and seek asylum. the first left honduras on october 12th, 357 arrived in tijuana yesterday and thousands more are on their way. corruption, organised crime, drug trafficking, which in fact span the entire political spectrum, and the recent rise in state violence and impunity are the main causes for people to flee one of the poorest and most violent countries in the region. the united states has organized to militarize the borders and threaten to cut off support. all this violates the most basic defence of human rights. the european union is expected to match its support to a genuine commitment by the authorities to the necessary reforms to restore the welfare and protection of the population and to provide assistance to those who need it. these caravans are also a form of struggle: they are people who are walking against abandonment and against the amnesia of history.
madam president, what are these thousands of human beings, men, women, old people, children, who make up this caravan, running from? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and so our first concern must be with that region and we must strengthen our cooperation with central america and contribute to overcoming the very serious problems facing that region of the world. on the other hand, they are demanding from the united states, and we europeans are aware of how complex and difficult this refugee issue is. but we must also always appeal to fundamental humanitarian principles. a reaction such as that which the current president of the united states, mr trump, has been systematically voicing, with the support, moreover, of the most sordid and disgusting european extreme right wing, is unacceptable. that is why i must draw attention to the need to respond to these situations, which are above all humanitarian situations, with a deep sense of humanism, which is the basis of all the values that inspire or should inspire our political intervention.
madam president, the suspension of the right of asylum and the sending of military personnel to the border by the president of the united states is an affront to the magnificent tradition, to the magnificent history of the united states and also to the role itself that the united states has played in building the international edifice of universal human rights. these people are not economic migrants, they are fleeing from miserable living conditions, they are fleeing from persecution, they are fleeing from crime on the loose in their countries, in central america, they are fleeing from situations for which the united states has grave responsibilities for its interventionist, trade, economic policies that are unwise. and so this attitude on the part of the united states is not tolerable and we europeans must speak, not speak as the extreme right wing does, completely against the horror of civilization that comes here to deny these people their humanity and their right to seek asylum in the face of the conditions in which they are living. we must have development policies for central america and the rest of the world, particularly in africa, which are genuine development policies and which go through democratic construction, because otherwise, in this interdependent and increasingly mobile world, we will have more and more caravans of this kind.
the commission has already taken action on this. i believe we both participated in the foreign affairs committee's mission to iran this year. you can probably confirm here that it was certainly i, a socialist member of this delegation, who asked the most questions about human rights to our iranian interlocutors. i therefore categorically reject the accusation you have made against the socialists.
madam president, the american sanctions go against 12 successive confirmations that iran is living up to its commitments under the nuclear deal. the last one from the iea came in yesterday. trump and his administration are lying when they say that sanctions will not affect the iranian people. essential medicines and food are already in short supply. prices soar, inflation adds to a galloping devaluation. the sanctions also affect the iranian airline, which is prevented from refuelling at european airports, putting the safety of all iranians and those visiting the country, including europeans and americans, at risk. and, perversely, this attack on the iranian people further pushes them into the arms of the regime's most radical forces. it does not help those sectors of society who are courageously fighting for human rights and for democratic change. the updating of the blockade legislation and the creation of a special purpose vehicle, envisaged by mrs mogherini, must be supported. member states must agree to ensure that this mechanism has legal personality and is operational as soon as possible. international security and our own credibility are at stake in the gspoa guarantee.
madam president, commissioner, by unilaterally denouncing the joint comprehensive plan of action and decreeing the re-imposition of sanctions against iran, president trump has not only increased tensions in the middle east but has also increased the european union's responsibility in defending world security. while imperfect, mainly because it excludes iran's ballistic missile test programme, the jcpoa is a landmark instrument of multilateral diplomacy and an important milestone for global nuclear disarmament, as evidenced by 12 consecutive reports by the international atomic energy agency monitoring iran's compliance with its nuclear-related obligations. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs mogherini, commissioner, on her firm advocacy for the maintenance of this agreement, but i hope that the operationalisation of instruments to circumvent the effects of us sanctions on institutional and commercial relations with the mullahs' regime, such as the announced special purpose vehicle, will continue to be conditioned by progress in the field of human rights. let us not forget that we are still dealing with an undemocratic and oppressive regime which does not shy away from torturing and murdering its own citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the unequal participation of men and women in the care of children, the elderly or those with chronic illnesses, in household chores and in participation in social activities in the european union continues to be an alarming factor in our society. 80% of care in the european union is provided by unpaid informal carers, 75% of whom are women. it is therefore urgent to make progress at european level with legal instruments capable of promoting gender equality in care provision and homogeneous regulation of the profession. i would point out that some member states have already set up programmes to support and protect alzheimer's patients, their families and healthcare professionals. so i ask, when will we create a similar programme for formal and informal care providers? ladies and gentlemen, given that the vast majority of carers are women, the future directive on work-life balance should effectively protect women and ensure that they are not dismissed for reasons intrinsic to their status as women.
mr president, commissioner, we talk about vietnam again and again in this house, and unfortunately, i must add, never for the best of reasons. this time the rule is no exception and once again we are here to discuss the lack of freedom and democracy and the constant violation of human rights in vietnam. this time, commissioner, we are here because of the denunciation by project 88 that 160 activists are currently being thrown into the notorious vietnamese prisons in inhumane conditions and that the vietnamese authorities continue to arrest, persecute and intimidate human rights defenders, journalists, bloggers, human rights lawyers and civil society activists on an unprecedented scale. the union cannot continue to make deals with states which systematically violate their international commitments to defend human rights and persecute those who express an opinion different from the official one. it is therefore, mr commissioner, in the most elementary sense of justice and moral decency that the union urges the vietnamese authorities to release all political prisoners without exception, otherwise the cooperation and partnership agreement with vietnam will be jeopardized. we cannot, commissioner, we cannot tolerate any more of these abuses of human dignity.
we are also concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been able to reach a decision on the future of the union. we denounce the spurious exploitation of human rights in this strategy, a matter on which the european union has no authority to preach. the attack here intended to be directed at the process of normalising and developing relations between the european union and its member states and cuba by concluding the political dialogue and cooperation agreement is regrettable. we reaffirm cuba's unquestionable example of internationalism, cooperation and solidarity in responding to serious humanitarian situations in third countries. we welcome the progress of the cuban revolution, a country without hunger, without illiteracy, with free health and education for all, progress achieved despite the criminal economic and financial blockade that the united states has imposed on cuba for almost 60 years, a blockade whose end is demanded, as reiterated at the last general assembly of the united nations by all countries except the united states and israel. it is up to the people of cuba to determine sovereignly their own path of development and the model of society they want to build.
mr president, catch the eye is a mechanism that is available to members when they have no opportunity to express their views in any other way. i made a catch the eye in this house today. and so i thank the president for allowing me to exercise my right to speak, to express my views here, please, and not to do, as many have done here in this house, to cut off the speech of freely elected members. - there you go.
in writing. there is a problem at the heart of the european union's approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions: the choice and insistence on a market approach which has clearly revealed not only its ineffectiveness but also its perversity. the rest is a lot of propaganda and some questionable measures of correctness. the creation of a trade in pollution permits has done nothing and will do nothing to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, especially if we want to achieve this in a fair and sustainable framework. leaving environmental objectives in the hands of the market which could and should be achieved by other means will undoubtedly be useful for some, but harmful to the environment and to people. moreover, this eu approach has been associated with the limitations, inadequacies and contradictions of the paris agreement itself. advertising is not enough. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies - from agricultural policy to trade policy, among others. if means are needed to achieve certain objectives, the proposal for the post-2020 multiannual financial framework does not allow for triumphalism.
in writing. the creation of a trade in pollution permits has done nothing and will do nothing to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, especially if we want to achieve this in a fair and sustainable framework. leaving environmental objectives in the hands of the market which could and should be achieved by other means will undoubtedly be useful for some, but harmful to the environment and to people. moreover, this eu approach has been associated with the limitations, inadequacies and contradictions of the paris agreement itself. advertising is not enough. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we are still faced with a fundamental mismatch between the declared environmental objectives and the content of the relevant sectoral policies - from agricultural policy to trade policy, among others.
the european commission's communication 'a clean planet for all', which is being debated today, is extremely timely and follows the presentation by the international energy agency of very pessimistic forecasts on the degree of global compliance with the paris agreement, which considered that even the best efforts of the eu may not be enough to contain the increase in emissions that is occurring, especially in asia. the communication stresses the importance of rapid implementation of the clean energy package and the ambitious completion of the ongoing institutional negotiations on clean mobility. it is important to underline that the communication 'a clean planet for all' aims to be a pillar of a long-term strategic vision that will enable the european union to make a sustainable and just transition to a prosperous, modern, competitive and decarbonised economy. the european union is now well equipped with the conceptual tools and is in the process of acquiring the legislative tools needed to aim for a position favourable to people, the economy and the environment in the energy transition process. the key, in an intergovernmental plan, is implementation. governments must follow up this legitimate european and citizen ambition.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. free capitalist competition in the single market has asymmetrical effects, which tend to accentuate economic and social divergence. on the one hand, the major economies of the european union and the eurozone, and their multinationals, which have colonized markets from the centre to the peripheries, are the winners. on the other hand, the economically weaker countries, exposed to unequal and destructive competition, whose markets have been colonized with strong disruption of the business fabric, are the losers. insufficient cohesion policy has never fully compensated for this divergent and asymmetrical effect. the deepening of the single market, on the other hand, has brought increasingly wider spheres of economic and social life under the control of the market, and is inseparable from liberalisation, privatisation and the attack on public services and the social functions of the state. the idyllic portrayal of the single market that the right and the social democrats repeatedly paint corresponds to only one side of the coin: that of the interests they defend. the workers and the people have no reason to see each other in this portrait.
mr president, the establishment of a new world order based on the deregulation and liberalization of international trade - that is, a new form of protectionism for the rich, a dictatorship of the multinationals, forcing competition between labour from different geographical origins in order to achieve the general devaluation of labour - was, and is, to a large extent, the aim of the world trade organization. the last few years have been marked by a substantial change in the balance of power at world level, by the rise and growing preponderance of the emerging economies and the breakdown of the relative hegemony of the united states and also of the european union and japan, which has dictated contradictions, constraints and blockages within the wto, with which these imperialist powers have not been able to deal in the way they wanted. the theses for reforming the wto to overcome blockages and contradictions thus emerge. the wto must be brought more into line with the interests for which it was set up. they are certainly not in the interests of the workers and the people. they are calling for another order, based on fair and regulated trade, complementarity, social progress and mutual benefit.
the european union cannot dismiss its responsibility for the deterioration of the socioeconomic situation of people with disabilities, where women are doubly discriminated against. the austerity policies it promotes, the cuts in social and labour rights, the conditioning of investment in the budgets of the states in areas such as health, education or social support are not dissociated from the social decline of this section of the population. every day, the fundamental rights of people with disabilities are denied. difficulties in accessing employment with rights, limitations and inadequacy of vocational training, perpetuation of poverty and exclusion, insufficient social protection, lack of human, material and pedagogical resources in public schools for the adequate follow-up and effective inclusion of children and young people, difficulties in accessing health care, medicines and targeted therapies, persistent limitations on mobility and access to culture and sport, among others. this requires the strengthening of public policies and responses that fully respond to the needs of people with disabilities.
mr president, the life programme is a fundamental instrument of the union's policy for the protection of the environment, biodiversity and adaptation to climate change. since 1992, it has funded almost 4 000 projects in the european union, contributing over eur 3 billion to environmental protection. the programme leverages projects in the area of nature and biodiversity, circular economy and quality of life, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the transition to clean energy. life has contributed to the union objective by allocating 25% of its resources to climate change adaptation and mitigation objectives. this effort now needs to be stepped up, as expressed in the european parliament's resolution on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. the proposal by the european parliament to double the funding of the life programme is a good one and should be taken into account. the scale of the challenge calls for a strong and unequivocal cross-cutting response. the report under consideration today, and i welcome the rapporteur, makes a significant contribution to the success of the programme, in particular by providing for synergies between the life programme and the cohesion funds and policies, by laying down specific rules for funding for the outermost regions and the overseas countries and territories, by allowing the programme to be extended to third countries under certain conditions and by strengthening the contribution of regional and local authorities. at a time when the eyes of the international public are on cop24 in poland, we have an opportunity to take concrete steps in implementing the paris agreement by making the life programme financially more robust. in strasbourg, we have with this report another opportunity to send a signal to katowice but also to the world, to all those who want to comply with the paris agreement.
pech. - (de) mr president, commissioner, fish is one of the healthiest foods we consume, and the european union is the world's largest consumer of these products. almost 70% of the fishery products we consume are imported from third countries. for this reason, as rapporteur for the committee on fisheries, i proposed that a representative of the aquaculture sector be included in the efsa management board. i note that although the board of directors has been increased, and the proposal has accommodated a representative of the food sector as proposed, but without reference to the aquaculture and biotechnology sector in the south, in contrast to agriculture. i want to emphasize positively the approach to scientific arbitration. the guarantee that assessments are carried out on the basis of the best and most up-to-date scientific information and that the risk assessment and preservation/preparation of the analysis of those studies is independent, objective and duly compensated for that purpose is reinforced. it is also good that the potential impacts on animal health and the environment are taken into account in the risk assessment. human health is not only about managing direct risks, but also about the environment in which it is embedded.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here today is unfortunately not a new subject. in 2011, this parliament already approved the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, advocating the immediate abolition of internal border controls with these two countries. i had the honour of being parliament's rapporteur on this issue seven years ago and again this year, through the annual report on the state of schengen, i advocated the full and immediate accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. today, with this report by mr stanishev, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, i maintain the same position. it is important to remember that all the requirements are met and only because unanimity in the council is needed, or the political opinion of some member states, romanians and bulgarians are still treated as second-class european citizens. at a time when several member states have imposed illegal internal border controls, as this parliament has already denounced, and when assessments reveal worrying shortcomings in the protection of their borders, it is difficult to understand the reticence towards bulgaria and romania. and for those who invoke the issue of corruption and the problems that still persist in these two countries, let's be clear: corruption is not a criterion for schengen membership, but if we want it to be, then it should be for all member states without distinction. we cannot have criteria for evaluating only some and not all. it is true that the romanian government has alarmingly destroyed the progress made in recent years in the fight against corruption and this cannot but deserve our strong condemnation, but i have no doubt that bulgaria and romania should now enter schengen and should be able to benefit from the area of free movement as european citizens.
i am sorry to say that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and i am sorry to say that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. we found nothing but mediocre answers. we are talking about the multiannual financial framework, and here again we are talking about the panacea of security, the strengthening of the so-called common army, and not a word about cohesion, about what is being the destruction of the european project itself. we are talking about foreign relations, the summit with the arab league, nothing about saudi arabia, we are whistling in the wind, friends as always, because the arms trade is much more important than anything else, even when we are talking about the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. we are talking about migration, we are going back on the june conclusions, even though the council acknowledges that there has been a 95% reduction in arrivals, we are still talking about detention camps. so i really do not understand, i do not really understand what governments are doing, other than actively contributing to the disintegration of europe, having no concrete answers to the concrete problems of the people and giving a mediocre, mediocre picture of what the way forward should be in the face of such important challenges.
madam president, as regards the post-2020 budget of the union, none of the opposing positions in the european council is acceptable to the interests of the peoples of europe and, in particular, to those countries like portugal, which are most affected by the asymmetrical and divergent nature of integration. in these countries, the cohesion funds, which they now want to cut and for which there is no lack of consensus, have never offset the negative impacts of the common policies of the single market and especially of the euro, the single currency. that at the same european council meeting where the deepening of the single market is discussed, with its benefits and drawbacks falling in both directions, a budget which cuts cohesion funds is a significant and telling example of what the european union is all about. if the rise of the far right shows us that the danger of fascism exists, and it does, it is clear that the european union is the one who is paving the way for it.
in writing. regarding the post-2020 budget of the european union, none of the confrontational positions in the european council is acceptable to the interests of the peoples of europe and particularly to those countries, such as portugal, most harmed by the asymmetrical and divergent nature of integration. in these countries, the cohesion funds - which they now want to cut, and there is no lack of consensus on this - have never offset the negative impacts of common policies, the single market and especially the euro. that at the same european council meeting where the deepening of the single market - whose benefits and costs fall on both sides - is discussed, a budget which cuts cohesion funds is also discussed is revealing and says a lot about the nature of the european union. if the rise of the far right shows us that the danger of fascism exists - and does exist - it is essential to recognize that it is the european union that is paving the way for it.
madam president, we were confronted last week with the alleged success of the eurogroup, but, as is obvious, the mountain gave birth to a mouse, there was no agreement, this is a hoax and it is understandable why. with elections looming, no government today wants to be associated with a further deepening of the economic and monetary union, this monster of austerity which has made life hell for millions of european citizens. but there was one exception: the bank resolution fund. it has progressed, that is, in the face of the banking problems, the governments there have agreed to create an unlimited credit line to solve a future banking crisis and so we can see who this european union serves and here we can see the deep discontent of european citizens, who are fed up with this european union, so quick to solve the banking problems but so slow to solve the citizens' problems.
madam president, my first question is, where is wally? where is minotaur? how can we be having a debate on the reform of the euro zone without the president of the eurogroup coming to parliament? it's understandable he won't come. centeno is not in the chamber and he is not there because he has failed in his task. the results of the eurogroup summit are disappointing. there is no progress in the banking union, no progress in deposit insurance, no progress in budgetary capacity. there is indeed an important point, which is the backstop for the resolution fund, but it has very little or nothing to do with what europeans expect after five years of parliamentary term, a failure for the president of the eurogroup and a failure for the austrian presidency as well. secondly, i should say that perhaps centeno did not come because the president of the eurogroup, who in lisbon says that the budget he presented here in brussels is historic, is critical of the budget he presented as president of the eurogroup. as finance minister, the budget is historic and as president of the eurogroup, the portuguese budget, he believes, calls into question the sustainability of portugal's path. and it is this duality between the centeno of lisbon and the centeno of brussels that explains why centeno does not show his face and does not show his face before the european parliamentarians.
mr president, in this special committee, we have heard from dozens of domestic and foreign security officials, experts, academics, victims of terrorism. this report reflects intensive and serious work to correct mistakes and make a political, not just a security, fight more effective. we reaffirm our conviction that the fight against terrorism cannot be fought by compromising the fundamental rights of citizens. that's playing into the hands of terrorists. we propose measures against the shocking failure of our governments to implement european legislation and fatf recommendations in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, including the need to create a european financial intelligence unit and reform vat to prevent carousel fraud from continuing to fund transnational mafias, including terrorists. we also propose measures to put an end to the hypocrisy of european governments who abandon the victims of terrorism once the media spotlight has been diverted. my group has proposed measures to strengthen european cooperation at all levels, including in intelligence, interoperability, border control, professionalism, prison management, surveillance of religious proselytism, online propaganda and recruitment, surveillance of cyberspace and public space, including against the rise of far-right nazi and fascist violence that poses a growing threat here in europe. what my group cannot accept is the attempt by some right-wingers to stigmatise immigrants as if they were terrorists and as if it were not the lack of public investment in social inclusion that is causing the radicalisation of so many citizens born and raised on european soil. how can we not accept the attempt to stigmatize muslims when they constitute 95 percent of the victims of terrorism globally and when we need them to prevent acts by terrorist groups that perversely invoke islam. (the speaker refuses a question by bruno gollnisch)
madam president, the fight against terrorism must remain a priority for the european union in the years to come. we condemn the fashionable populisms, which are confined to outmoded nationalisms that clamor for security and intolerant approaches. we are of the opinion that only with more and better cooperation at union level can we bring more freedom, security and justice to our citizens. before the end of the year, the schengen information system will have its first innovations in operation. this is the greatest example of cooperation between our police forces, but also of the work we have done over the last five years to strengthen the security of europeans. but let's be clear: this was not the rule. the council has repeatedly asked this parliament for urgent measures and the member states have been slow to implement them. it is pointless to blame europe for what the member states are delaying or failing to achieve. we have a responsibility to protect the safety of our citizens.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me begin by thanking commissioner malmström and the eu’s chief negotiator, mauro petriccione, for their intensive work on this agreement with japan and for our good cooperation. let me also thank the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that by working together and building compromises we have reached a very good outcome, so that we can have a meaningful vote tomorrow – not only on the agreement itself but also on a resolution in which parliament sends out important messages about trade, and calls on the parties to make the most of the progressive potential of this agreement. as standing rapporteur, let me begin by saying that we are discussing here much more than a trade agreement. yes, this is a historic moment. in front of us, we have the most important bilateral trade agreement ever concluded by the eu. two of the largest economies in the world, together representing nearly a third of the world’s gdp, will move closer to each other, eliminating a number of heavy tariffs as well as non—tariff barriers to trade. as a result, european products and services will get major new opportunities in the japanese market. acknowledging the successful outcome of the negotiations, all eu economic sectors are now speaking in favour of this agreement, including the agri—food sector, which will benefit from new export opportunities while protecting 205 geographical indications. no matter how relevant it may be from the economic point of view, however, this agreement is, above all, of major strategic importance. it gives us the chance to shape the global agenda at a time of rising protectionism, thus sending a clear and timely signal in favour of an open, fair and rules—based trading system. we should not miss this opportunity to promote our own values and standards in the asia—pacific region and in global trade. i would not be standing here as rapporteur supporting this eu—japan agreement if it were not a progressive trade agreement: an agreement clearly belonging to a new generation of trade agreements, in which sustainable development matters and environment, labour rights and consumer protection matter. of course, there is no such thing as a perfect agreement, but this agreement recognises the un sustainable development goals. it is the first trade agreement with a reference to the paris agreement on climate change and it fully respects public services and the right to regulate. moreover, it includes not only a commitment to pursue the ratification of the core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions but also a review clause for improving the enforceability of labour and environmental rules. japan, it is fair to say, has made substantial efforts, even before the entry into force of the agreement, and it is already discussing at inter—ministerial level the implementation of its sustainable development commitments. this should be warmly welcomed as a very good sign. parliament has closely followed these negotiations from the beginning. we were supportive but also demanding. last friday, the japanese parliament approved the agreement. tomorrow this parliament will have the final say. my position as rapporteur is that this trade agreement is economically balanced and of major strategic importance. furthermore, it clearly represents a step forward on sustainable development. therefore, i recommend that you support this important eu—japan economic partnership agreement and vote in favour of our resolution.
madam president, if i may, i would like to know what criteria you used in distributing the floor in this procedure we have just seen. i have been in this debate since the beginning of the debate and it was at this point that i asked to speak. the president-in-office has just given the floor twice to the same political group and twice to the same speaker and she does not allow others to speak. i wonder what the criteria were for doing this.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. as some of you said, every agreement is a compromise – you give and you take, and sometimes the end result is not exactly as you wanted but rather good. you may like this agreement or not, but you have to stick to the truth: there is nothing – and i repeat nothing – in this agreement forcing any country of the european union, or japan, to privatise public services. nor is there anything hindering any country of the european union, or japan, from taking back privatised services and renationalising them, as long as this is done in a non-discriminatory way. so stick to the truth. i also want to reject the claim that this is not transparent. over the past two years, there have been 40 meetings with eu governments and 15 meetings with members of this house, including the monitoring group. we have published negotiating texts. we have made available detailed reports of each negotiating round. we have had a lot of public meetings, i have attended several of them, and we put the whole text online in july 2017 when it was finalised. there are also many memos and fact sheets, including on a regional basis, and sometimes online, in which you can look at the content of this agreement. so please stick to the truth. on data adequacy, i also want to say that this house asked for clarifications. we have launched the process to adopt the final decision involving the opinion of our independent data protection authorities and, once that is finalised, which will be very soon, the eu-japan mutual adequacy decision would confirm our global lead in setting high standards for the benefit of our citizens. this is an agreement with a friend and an ally. japan is a strong democracy that shares our values, and together we stand for fair trade, free trade and sustainable trade, based on multilateral rules – and you all know that they are under question today. the agreement opens up fantastic possibilities for our goods, services and agri-food products, irish whiskey and many others, that can be sold to the benefit of japanese customers, and for cooperation in many areas beyond traditional trade. we have had a focus, jointly, on smes to try to help them in this regard. i have learned during these negotiations that we have much more in common with our japanese friends than maybe we thought a few years ago. i am confident that the trade agreement and the strategic partnership agreement will give us a framework for developing areas of cooperation that are already ongoing, and many others as well, and that we will set a high standard for the world. so, i hope all of you will feel, or at least most of you will feel, that you can vote in favour of this tomorrow so that it can enter into force early next year. thank you very much for a good debate.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am glad to see such wide support from the major political groups for this agreement and my draft resolution. i see it in part as a result of our fruitful cooperation. of course, i respect all the opinions expressed during the debate but i have to say that some of the arguments used against the agreement simply disregard its content – and that goes not only for this idea of privatisation of public services but also for the undermining of democratic basic rights, because the right to regulate is clearly protected in this agreement. others say that this agreement is only about free trade: on the contrary, this is a sound economic partnership agreement with a sustainable development chapter and important and binding environmental, labour and consumer-protection provisions. and some even say that this agreement will affect the wellbeing of japanese farmers – meaning, of course, that it is perhaps too good for european farmers. well, i’ve heard a lot of debate on other trade agreements because they might affect rural development and jobs in the agricultural sector, and now this agreement is deemed too good for european farmer! i think, on the contrary, that we have good reasons to be in favour of this agreement, because it is economically important, it is strategically important, it is a step forward regarding sustainable development, and it gives us a chance, as parliament, to send a clear message in favour of the progressive and full use of the agreement’s potential. let us not miss this opportunity tomorrow.
in writing. other karoshi is the japanese term for death from exhaustion. a situation unfortunately well known in japan, the result of high levels of exploitation, of very long working hours, with several hours of unpaid work. it is with this country - which has not yet ratified several international labour organisation (ilo) conventions, such as those on fundamental labour rights - that the european union has signed a free trade agreement which will objectively create pressure to degrade the labour rights and wages of european workers. it should be stressed that the european union does not even require japan to ratify the ilo conventions before the agreement enters into force. it will be an agreement, one more, tailored to the interests of the multinationals of the major european powers and of the japanese multinationals. multinationals whose relocation strategies may leave a trail of destruction and unemployment in some countries. this agreement was not even the subject of a detailed country-specific analysis of the impact on the respective productive sectors. significantly, it is supported by the right and the social democrats, who proclaim a thousand and one virtues but want to escape ratification in national parliaments. this shows the democratic scruples of those who are always ready to defend the interests of capital and attack the workers.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. mr president, of course on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs we welcome both the mcallister report and the paşcu report and the statement just made by the vice-president and high representative. we must say that from our point of view it is very important to strengthen the european defence fund. permanent structured cooperation in this area is also very welcome. those are two big achievements from years of work. we also consider very important cooperation in the field of intelligence, particularly incent, which is also a very important step forward, and finally the creation of the single defence market which can also provide some guidelines for arms export policy and which can also be integrated with the civil protection mechanism and the coast and border guard. that said, we wanted to emphasize two points. firstly, from an institutional point of view, it is important that there should be a council of defence ministers, chaired by the high representative. it is important that there is a committee in the european parliament on security and defence and it is important that there is scrutiny by parliament and... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
mr president, in the esdp subcommittee since 2004, i have seen the european security and defence policy move forward with hesitation. but what we have achieved is not enough, because in this interconnected world and in the irreversible dependence on digital technology, the dangers and challenges have grown and multiplied. with russia's offensive against ukraine, putin's trolls interfering in elections, instigating brexit and funding the nazi-fascist far right, with trump questioning multilateralism and collective security, no eu member state can today face these threats in isolation, unencumbered by a common european strategy with an integrated political vision. yes, we need a european armed forces, made up of contingents from all member states, integrated in training, training, capabilities, interoperability, with a european investment in research and technology. we are also calling for the establishment of a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force, a european police force. what many of our member states are not doing today is selling arms to saudi arabia, providing digital repression technology to dictators and ceding ports, airports, power grids and g5 networks to the chinese communist party. we need to... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the exemplary way in which he has conducted the work and for the way in which we have reached these commitments. and that means that there is a broad consensus in this parliament on the duty we have to defend human rights. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and on the application of this regulation, and shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules on the application of this regulation. but, whether inside or outside europe, we will continue to advocate the strengthening and support of the promotion of human rights in the most diverse areas: freedom of expression, freedom of religion, the rights of minorities and migrants, the fight against torture, enforced disappearances, the death penalty, the rights of children, gender equality and also a reference to the lgbti community. we support ngos and human rights and environmental defenders, but we need to be more assertive in bilateral dialogues, reinforcing the training of those who work in these organisations, so that they can help in some way in the transition to democratic regimes. the role of the union has been fundamental in promoting human rights. however, i believe we can go further. the monitoring and evaluation of the actions carried out by the european union in third countries, in particular through its delegations, should be emphasized. i am particularly concerned about freedom of expression in the world and, to quote reporters without borders, "there is an increase in the number of countries with violations and abuses against the free press, even within europe. freedom of information is essential in a free and democratic society. it is the one that allows the denunciation of attacks on all other rights. i would also like to mention the name of the ukrainian film director oleg sentsov, who is in prison in russia. this year he will be awarded the sakharov prize, and it is a fair prize.
mr president, i would first like to thank the whole negotiating team, in particular the chairman of the committee and, even more particularly, the main rapporteurs, daniel viotti and paul rübig. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner, a commissioner who has made a positive proposal. the negotiations did not go well in the first phase, but then he insisted on the possibility of using funds that were allocated and not used in research and innovation. this agreement is very positive and i would say it is very positive despite the council. we are talking about a small budget, a budget where payments represent 0.9% of gross national income, but which has an important, enormous added value: a budget mainly devoted to investment, where only 6% is for administrative expenditure. our priorities for research and innovation, for small and mediumsized enterprises, for youth, for erasmus, are set out here. but there's one question i haven't been able to answer. why did the council not want to use the funds that were not used in previous years in horizon 2020 in relation to research and innovation? why does the council proclaim research as a priority and then not accept the possibility, not put that priority into practice, not act accordingly? and i would like to know, for example, why the german or french finance ministers did not want to use 400 million euros from research and innovation?
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs. a commitment is a commitment, and we came here with a commitment. the commission's initial proposal again excluded the social sciences and the humanities. parliament has recovered them. it is impossible to intervene in societies we do not know, and i believe that the tragic events in strasbourg today have shown us this need. we guarantee the protection of the employment rights of researchers, such as maternity and paternity leave. we guarantee that there is no public funding for military research. we propose to strengthen convergence by also strengthening the widening programme. we've got more resources for small and medium-sized businesses. this commitment is not perfect and that is why we want to try tomorrow to eliminate the principle of innovation, which nobody knows very well what it is, except for big industry. anyway, it's been a busy few months. now, we need to close the negotiations and let the scientific community breathe. there are few examples of cooperation between the different institutions in this european union.
knowledge, innovation and technology will increasingly be the key instruments for the development of societies, their competitiveness and their assertion in an increasingly disruptive geopolitical context. it is important that the european parliament's draft report reinforces the need to secure funding for the horizon europe programme, funding of eur 120 billion in the period 2021-2027. the compatibility of the programme with the millennium development goals and the paris agreement commitments to combat global warming should be highlighted. 35% of horizon europe funding shall be used for measures with a favourable impact on climate action. the priority given to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is also key. eur 2.5 billion is allocated to incremental innovation in smes. the creation of conditions for greater participation of civil society in the monitoring of the programme and the increased focus on the social sciences are also decisive. the measures contained in the programme to promote convergence in access and reduce disparities between member states should be fully implemented and the programme should be simplified in administrative procedures, as proposed.
rapporteur. – mr president, as standing rapporteur i would like to react to this last-minute request by saying that i don’t see any reason whatsoever for a postponement. (applause)in fact, if we listen carefully to the request we see this is not really a request for postponement, because the reasoning is against the agreement as it is. now the agreement has been known about since december 2017. we heard all the stakeholders, we asked for clarifications from the japanese government and we got those clarifications. we have had a long discussion in this parliament, and the japanese parliament has already taken a decision. we are ready to do the same, and i say we should do it now, deciding on both the agreement and the progressive resolution that we have before us.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank parliament for raising this very important topic and for giving me the chance to take the floor on behalf of the council. the timing of this debate is apt, given that international climate negotiators are currently gathered at cop24 in katowice in poland, discussing, inter alia, solidarity and ‘just transition’. the topic was immediately brought to the fore when, on 3 december 2018, at the leaders’ summit taking place during the conference, the polish presidency of cop24 announced the adoption of the solidarity and just transition silesia declaration. the european union joined the representatives of 45 states in giving its full support to the declaration, which remains open for others to join it. the silesia declaration underlines that a just transition of the workforce and the safeguarding and creation of sustainable employment and decent work are crucial to ensuring public support for long—term emission reductions. the eu’s support for the declaration, alongside that of its member states, is an important signal to the international community, showing our commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement. you are all aware of the enormous scale and urgency of the challenge that climate change poses to humankind. if left unconstrained, climate change will lead to large-scale and irreversible negative consequences for our environment and ecosystems, and for our economies. action against climate change is more urgent than ever. the paris agreement sets the goal of achieving net—zero greenhouse gas emissions globally in the second half of this century. the eu has long been at the forefront of the global response to climate change. it already has in place a legislative framework for reducing its greenhouse gas emissions up to 2030 and it has managed successfully to decouple greenhouse gas emissions from economic growth since the 1990s. however, we know that, even though they are among the most ambitious in the international context, the policies the eu has in place today will not be enough to contribute in a sufficient manner to the achievement of the paris agreement’s temperature goals. according to the paris agreement, all parties are to present long-term, low-greenhouse-gas-emission development strategies by 2020. on 28 november, responding to calls by the council and parliament to present a long-term strategy for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the commission published a communication on a long—term strategy for the european union. it outlines a vision of the economic and societal transformations required, while also seeking to ensure that the transition to net—zero greenhouse gas emissions is socially fair. discussions of the long-term strategy within the council have already started and, before the end of our presidency, it will be debated by ministers responsible for energy at the council meeting scheduled for 19 december, and by those responsible for the environment on 20 december. the challenges posed by global climate change will require huge economic and societal transformation, which includes the continuing modernisation of european industries and economies with, notably, a transition to clean energy systems. just transition is an imperative that was included in the paris agreement to ensure that the consequences for the workforce of climate change measures in regions and communities which stand to be particularly affected by them are taken into account. some regions, globally and in europe, are more dependent than others on carbon-intensive industries or on coal mining. today, 41 regions in 12 eu countries are actively mining coal, and many face significant economic and social challenges. the transition towards low—carbon and climate—resilient economies and societies should ensure a just transition of the workforce, with the creation of decent work and quality jobs for all. while many sectors, cities and regions which are highly reliant on fossil fuels and high-emitting industries face undeniable challenges, the transition to climate—resilient economies also has the potential to create additional employment opportunities. according to a report published by the international labour organisation (ilo), this year, jobs created in renewable energy, building efficiency and other low—carbon industries can more than offset job losses in other sectors. however, policies will be needed to protect workers in the sectors where there will be fewer jobs in the future. the silesia declaration mentions the importance of the ilo guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies for all, and emphasises that the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals confirm the need to tackle environmental, social and economic problems in a coherent and creative manner. ensuring a just transition for the workers and communities concerned requires a participatory and progressive representative process of social dialogue, involving all social partners. just transition is finding its way into important pieces of eu legislation on climate and energy policy. with the inclusion of just transition as one of the investment priorities of the new modernisation fund, the revised emissions trading system (ets) directive will play an important role in supporting regions in 10 low-income member states, which are dependent on carbon-intensive industries, during their move towards a low—carbon economy. projects financed under the modernisation fund should support the redeployment, reskilling and upskilling of workers, education, jobseeking initiatives and start-ups, in dialogue with the social partners. in addition, the revised directive highlights the use of auction revenues by member states for the purpose of promoting skills formation and the reallocation of labour in order to contribute to a just transition to a low—carbon economy, in particular in regions most affected by the jobs transition. in both cases, member states are responsible for designing and implementing the relevant support schemes. it is to be noted that support is also available from a number of existing eu programmes and funding instruments. it is a very positive sign that the international community, governments, businesses and trade unions are increasingly paying attention to the just transition agenda. this is a conversation which needs to continue and to be as inclusive and participatory as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members for tabling this important and topical debate. we can only have a clean transition if it is also a just transition, and we can only have a safer planet if we involve our workers and our citizens. this is a tale of two cities. while we are debating the issue today in strasbourg, the un climate conference – the cop24 – is taking place in katowice. katowice is a city in poland’s region of silesia, one of europe’s most coal-intensive regions and, as such, silesia perfectly illustrates the social economic challenges, but also opportunities, of transition to a low—carbon economy. this is why cop24 started last week by signing the silesia declaration on solidarity and just transition, a declaration endorsed by the european union as a whole and 20 eu member states individually, a declaration which stresses that environmental and social developments must go hand—in—hand. our european climate policy is the most forward-looking in the world. we aim to reduce our emissions by at least 40% by 2030, but the paris agreement requires us to look further into the future. two weeks ago, we published our proposal for the european union’s long-term strategy, a long—term strategy on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and the proposal shows how europe can lead the way to climate neutrality by 2050 by investing in technological solutions, by empowering citizens, by taking action in industrial policy finance and research, and by ensuring social fairness. we need to decisively tackle climate change, and there are more benefits besides those clearly related to environment and health. already today the transformation is creating growth – green growth. in europe, the clean energy sector has created roughly four million jobs; investments into industrial modernisation, energy transformation, the circular economy and clean mobility will create more and better jobs. but change will come with its challenges and costs. these challenges might not be equally distributed between regions, sectors and between people. emission-heavy industries need to rethink their industrial processes, and if they don’t, there are job losses, social exclusion and depopulation in the region. the labour market will change. just like in the digital transition, some jobs will disappear, others will be created, and many jobs will change. workers in declining sectors need guidance and re-skilling, and we have to realise that some people won’t be able to upskill or re-skill – they need social protection, and that means adequate social protection. lastly, transition may affect most those who can afford it least – those who can’t invest in energy efficiency or low-carbon solutions. the success of the transition to the low-carbon economy depends on the support of our citizens; it should be seen not as a pet project of the elites. our policy should be progressive and should not punish the poorest. to avoid polarisation, to avoid inequality, we must base our policies on solidarity. social fairness should be part of all our climate policies, right from the start. we should not think about corrective actions post factum in order to remedy the consequences. instead, we should include social and fairness considerations at the outset from the moment we design our policy responses. also, therefore, we are putting a premium on investment. our proposal for the new mff has a strong focus on investment and innovation, with programmes such as horizon europe, the invest europe fund, the european regional and development fund, and the dedicated modernisation and innovation funds under the eu emissions trading system. we can anticipate skills needs and help workers change jobs by funding retraining and upskilling from the european social fund. our proposal for the post-2020 european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers who risk losing their jobs because of decarbonisation by funding retraining and activation measures. and with the european pillar of social rights, we direct policy attention to support for individual transition through investing in skills and lifelong learning and upskilling and re-skilling, but also through investment and adequate social protection. and we base our approach on partnership. for example, last year we launched the coal regions in transition initiative to facilitate green transition in 41 coal— and carbon—intensive regions located in 12 member states. climate change is a fact, and that’s why we are ambitious in our goals, and that’s why we are planning for the long term. the paris agreement is good for the planet and for the people, but it can only be made a reality and a success with the people on board.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, minister, a safer planet is one where violence, especially terrorism, especially the most extreme violence such as terrorism, is combated primarily by preventive political measures and not only by repressive police measures. a safer planet is one where we build more schools today for tomorrow, where we don't have to build more prisons. a safer planet is one where poverty is tackled with policies based on solidarity and this political imperative is not left to random economic growth and unpredictable expansion of markets. a safer planet is one where citizens trust their political representatives because they always respect their will and put the interests of their constituents above their own personal interests and personal comforts. a safer planet is one where citizens trust the veracity of the news they read and hear in the media, because they are sure that journalists produce information subordinated only to the dictates of truth and the public interest of the facts and not to the propaganda or advertising interests of news agency clients. a safer planet is one where citizens trust the judges who judge and decide in the courts, because they know that they do so always subordinated to the values of law and justice and not to hidden agendas of personal and/or corporate political interests. a safer planet will always have to be a fairer and less unequal planet. absolute equality will never be achieved among human beings, but the chasms that still separate men and women and especially the rich and the poor on this planet can already be narrowed. a safer planet, after all, is one on which we know how to preserve its biological diversity as well as its fragile environmental balances.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, the social market economy model is based on the following triad: investment, labour and consumption. only investment creates employment, only employment increases consumption, only consumption increases production, and thus generates new investment, new jobs and new consumption. this is the trilogy of economic development and social progress. the state must not intervene in the market which thus functions, except to correct some of its deviations or excesses or to make up for some of its shortcomings. one of these deviations is the possibility for some economic operators to obtain high profits and incomes, often due only to the clever use of certain market constraints. this is precisely where the state can intervene through the mechanism of taxation. i therefore support the commission's proposal and welcome the work of the rapporteurs to create a tax on digital companies operating in the european union and making profits that are scandalously disproportionate to their investments and job creation.
mr president, the digital economy has been one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy and has provided enormous advantages to consumers in terms of the diversity, quality and price of the most varied services and products. however, it must be acknowledged that part of this dynamism and competitiveness has been based on a profound fiscal inequality vis-à-vis companies marketing equivalent products and services. the big companies in the digital economy have been living in a kind of virtual offshore that allows them to pay very little tax where they are based and none at all in the countries where they do business. i am in favour of introducing a digital tax for the sake of equality in the taxation of companies, which is indispensable for financing the social and economic functions of the states. i also hope that this will be the beginning of the movement towards taxation of all companies benefiting from tax-privileged schemes, whether in the european union or outside.
mr president, commissioner, in conjunction with other essential programmes in the field of strengthening the scientific and technological capacity of the european union, this european space programme is a strategic instrument for political and economic affirmation in the new global framework. the objective of the programme is very worthy: to integrate the various initiatives and implementation programmes and give them a new impetus, in order to ensure a competitive position of the european union in the space industries. it involves not only its reference companies, but also the knowledge centres and the network of small and medium-sized enterprises with high potential in this field. the development of a network of small and mediumsized enterprises throughout the union, which contribute to the european space strategy, is a condition for convergence which is worth investing in. the planned investment, as i said, of eur 16 billion for the european space programme, includes the budget of eur 9.7 billion for the galileo programme and eur 5.8 billion for the copernicus programme. the remaining 500 million is for initiatives in the field of government satellite communications and situational awareness in space. these are key initiatives for coordination, integration and monitoring, but they are clearly underfunded. the union needs all its programmes to be perceived by its citizens for the importance they can have in their daily lives. in the new technological framework, the scope of defending populations and vital interests is broader than established by the traditional reading of past conflicts and, therefore, to establish a rigid boundary between civilian purposes and the purposes of protection in case of conflict is an academic exercise. it is important that the emphasis is not on military uses and the report under consideration does not do that. however, european citizens should be able to feel that their economic security, their technological security and also their physical security are strengthened by these programmes. and this is also an added value of the integrated approach of this programme that we cannot afford to lose.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, the success of the programme under discussion today will, as i have said, largely depend on the future of the european union as a shared space of peace, freedom and democracy. as the poet paul éluard said, the future is not what it used to be, and today, failing to include the technological frontier in areas such as those on which this programme is betting would mean an irreversible social, political and economic backwardness. we must therefore be profoundly rigorous and determined in defining the priorities, rules and methodologies to be applied. only a narrow and short-sighted view can call into question the funding which, although significant, is still small and results from the lack of overall ambition of the european commission's financial package. eur 2.7 billion to develop a powerful high-capacity computing network; eur 2.5 billion to strengthen skills in artificial intelligence; eur 2 billion to develop cybersecurity capabilities; eur 1.3 billion to ensure digital transformation in public administration, with citizen access and service delivery as a priority; eur 700 million to develop the necessary skills so that this information generates a significant volume of new high-quality employment opportunities, all of this together totalling eur 9.2 billion. sounds like a lot of money. however, when we compare this potential investment with the investment forecast by other major powers, namely the united states, china or japan, we realise that it is not an excessive investment after all, but a small investment. it is also because of this differential in financial effort that we must be particularly rigorous in implementing the programme. as the shadow rapporteur for the socialists and democrats, i would like to highlight the excellent work of collaboration with the rapporteur, whom i congratulate, and with the other groups, which has made it possible to give consistency and to translate into a report strong ideas, strong ideas which i would like to summarise. first, digital europe is not a programme to develop infrastructure, it needs infrastructure to succeed. and that is why it is very important to link this programme with other programmes such as the cohesion funds, horizon europe or the connecting europe facility. secondly, it is very important to set a strong ethical standard in the evaluation of projects funded by the programme. the report sets out important steps in this direction which must be further developed in the context of the european union as a whole. cooperation with third countries is another key issue and this report gives a balanced, flexible but robust answer, setting out the relationship benchmarks and clear criteria for defining winning partnerships. the convergence and inclusion dimension associated with the programme should also be ensured. therefore, the fact that each member state has at least one innovation and development hub within the european network is an important element in protecting the geographical and territorial balance. data protection is also a cross-cutting feature of the development matrix of the programme objectives. we are living, madam commissioner, madam president, in an age of energy and digital transition which is shaping a technological revolution. a revolution must always be guided by values and must have the interests of the citizens as the watermark of its development. the deepening inequalities, the perception of injustice and the fear of change have been driving citizens away from the european project. the digital europe programme must be a programme of connecting, not of excluding. this week, as the commissioner is well aware, the first 2 800 european municipalities were announced which will have guaranteed high-quality connections in their public spaces under the wifi4you initiative. 2 800 municipalities were selected from among 13 000 local territories. the digital europe programme must be able to feed into the new european network of services for citizens and advocacy for citizens; it has to be the embryo of a differentiated digital identity based on our common values. that will also be the measure of your success or failure. we all, who believe in this project of peace and freedom that is the european union, have to cooperate to make a lot happen with the resources we have, mobilizing civil society and european businesses for this key strategic challenge, the challenge, after all, of putting the technological and digital revolution at the service of people, the decentralization of the planet, justice and the quality of life.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is an area of freedom and security which must be based on full respect for fundamental rights. the reports coming from the croatian-bosnian border are therefore worrying. it is true that each member state determines who is allowed to enter or not to enter its territory, but in an area of free movement the external borders of each state become, in reality, common external borders. so we share a set of rules on how we carry out border controls, the so-called schengen rules, how we process asylum applications and even how we process the return of people. we must clearly condemn the violation of these rules, but we must also come up with solutions, and that is why i call on the european commission to make use of the schengen evaluation mechanism so that it can identify and recommend solutions as a matter of urgency. this does not mean that we favour an open door policy; it simply means that not everything is worth controlling borders, let alone questioning basic principles of humanity. we are faced with another symptom of this greater disease, namely the inaction of the member states, their inability to accept reforms which this parliament has long advocated. we need an effective return policy, a functioning common european asylum system with a strengthened european agency and a robust and effective border agency. once again, mr. president, the weakest are paying for the weakness of the strongest.
author. – mr president, the lawyer nasrin sotoudeh was in jail when we awarded her the 2012 sakharov prize and she was never able to come to meet us because she has now been thrown in jail for several years in iran for her indefatigable advocacy for human rights and women’s rights. her husband, reza khandan, because he dared to protest publicly against her imprisonment, was also arrested and accused of spreading propaganda against the regime and promoting the practice of appearing in public without a veil. such ridiculous charges tell us everything about the tragedy in which iran is ensnared. on the one hand, a vibrant people, proud of its civilisation and full of potential; on the other, an archaic regime that needs to impose brutal repression on the people. the new law on drugs has been positive, sparing the death penalty for thousands of iranian citizens. but torture, unfair trials, the discrimination of minorities and religious persecution... all of that compounds the terrible repressive framework against which the citizens of iran increasingly bravely resist and denounce. when i returned to iran last february in a delegation of the european parliament, i could sense the people were much more vocal, and therefore we call for the release of all the political prisoners, all the human rights campaigners like nasrin sotoudeh. the more we feel attached to the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), which is also about human rights, the more we need to raise human rights and indeed demand that this action ends.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, egypt is certainly an important partner of the european union and a neighbouring country with which we have many centuries of common history. i've been working with the egyptian authorities since 2009, and that's why everything we have to say must be said very frankly and face to face. there are trade agreements between the european union and egypt. we recognize the sovereignty of the egyptian people, but we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the systematic violation of human rights in the name of commercial interests. what we are seeing in egypt is a closing of the political space, severe limitations on the freedoms of expression, opinion, association. there can be no impunity for human rights in egypt, in the european union or anywhere else in the world. in the interests of good relations, we cannot continue to turn a blind eye or a deaf ear to all the appeals and complaints that come to us from citizens and civil society organisations, which i believe are only the tip of the iceberg. respect for human rights by the egyptian authorities is a favour first of all to the egyptian people themselves.
