in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal on the conservation of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems through technical measures to revise existing regulations. the main objective of technical measures is to reduce those unwanted catches of either gillnets or non-target species, as well as the impact of fishing activities on vulnerable species and ecosystems. the proposal also introduces new elements such as simplification and regionalisation, but i believe that simplification should not be done at any cost. i have also spoken out and spoken out against electric fishing because we do not know the impact it can have on ecosystems, and i hope that the vote of my colleagues will be in favour of our amendments calling for a ban on this practice.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, almost 10 years after these macro-regional strategies were put into practice, there are still difficulties in implementation due to the different involvement of states in terms of funding, resources and political support. for romania, which is the initiator of the strategy for the danube region, it is very important to strengthen this approach together with the other countries involved. at the romanian level, an attempt was made to develop mechanisms to favour projects relevant to the danube strategy, either by running separate project calls or by awarding additional points in the final evaluation of projects. commissioner, it is essential that you continue to support these strategies and ensure the necessary funding beyond 2020. i also believe that the participating states must also make clear commitments on the resources allocated and on the political support for these projects. i would point out that the objectives of these strategies must remain the improvement of the living conditions of the european citizens whom we now represent. we must work together to ensure that the funds allocated to these objectives serve this purpose and to fight against their diversion to finance migration, which has nothing to do with regional development.
madam president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur, our colleague, who has summarised the four strategies very well. thank you for being here tonight, and not just for being here, but for having a very good understanding of regional development and for supporting the strategies, obviously. macro-regional strategies are useful tools for development, but also for making the benefits of european cooperation visible to citizens. the rapporteur has shown very well what has been achieved by these strategies. i would like to focus on the danube strategy, where the rapporteur makes concrete proposals, which i support, namely the reopening of a danube strategy centre, which could help to better implement the strategy. of course, i could say that i agree with all three, but i would also like to see a macro strategy for the black sea region, as we have for the baltic and the adriatic. anyway, i hope it continues beyond 2020, so let's not get confused. macro-regional development strategies help to achieve cohesion.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr faria and ms monteiro de aguiar, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their valuable work. i very much welcome the european parliament’s own-initiative report on international ocean governance, as well as your support for the general objectives of the joint communication and its actions. i would like to thank all the speakers for your valuable comments as well. this joint communication is a major step forward, as this is the first time that the commission and the high representative have issued such a policy statement on the oceans. with this communication, the european union is taking the lead as a global actor in strengthening international ocean governance. the success of the ‘our ocean conference’, which was hosted by the european union three months ago in malta, confirms our engagement to be at the frontline to tackle global ocean challenges. the joint communication on international ocean governance is an integral part of the eu response to the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development goals (sdgs), in particular sdg 14. it sets out 50 concrete and tangible actions in three priority areas for safe, secure, clean and sustainably managed oceans. our first priority is to improve the international ocean governance framework. a globalised world needs a more cooperative global governance. we believe in the power of diplomacy, rules and international institutions, but there is no real global governance without a cooperative oceans governance. as a matter of fact, the european union is deploying the necessary efforts through our cooperation on multilateral, regional and bilateral level, as well as concrete projects and programmes. in the same direction, promoting maritime multilateralism is a strategic priority for the eu. in line with the eu global strategy, secured and protected seas and oceans can only be achieved through collaborative efforts. in this regard, i very much welcome last month’s decision by the un general assembly on a resolution to convene an intergovernmental conference to elaborate the text of an internationally legally binding instrument under united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos), on marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction, which the european union has championed for many years. our second priority is to further engage in international action to reduce the pressures and their causes on the oceans. pressures and causes such as marine litter, the consequences of climate change, such as a rise in sea level, warming and acidification, as well as ensuring the sustainable use of the oceans and their biodiversity, merge into this priority. this also depends on the appropriate planning and management of human uses. promoting maritime spatial planning and our marine environmental legislation at regional and global level is key in this regard, and i am very pleased to see your support on this issue. in addition, the upcoming plastic strategy will further complement our fight against marine litter. oceans are also very important for many developing countries as a potential source of food, of jobs and revenue. we are working with several countries on programmes that support sustainable fisheries, marine protected areas and coastal zone management, climate mitigation in the maritime shipping sector, harbour infrastructure and even maritime security. ongoing programmes amount to some eur 590 million, and more are in preparation under the 2014-2020 programing. finally, we are working to further advance our knowledge of the oceans. we shall therefore keep investing over eur 260 million per year in marine and maritime research projects. modern technologies are opening up new possibilities and we should make the most of them. another aim is to step up ocean observations and to create a worldwide marine data network which is open to all. we will further develop marine research and science partnerships with key international partners. these actions, whether they are stricto sensu related to the ocean governance framework, or to pressures on the marine environment, marine security and research, are all part of a holistic approach. there is a logic to this approach. the pressures that the oceans are facing are not only global, but also interconnected, as are the solutions. yet the success of eu action depends not only on us, but also on our international partners. in this respect, your support on establishing ocean partnerships with key ocean players is highly appreciated. this will provide the opportunity to bring issues of common concern and interest on ocean governance to the table.
in writing. – i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the outcome of this very important report, which constitutes an ambitious response to the joint communication and puts forward key guidelines for efficient and effective ocean governance at international level in order to deliver on the commitments of the paris agreement and achieve the 2030 agenda. while recalling the crucial part that oceans, along with coastal and marine resources, play in supporting life on earth and in social and economic development worldwide, i would like to also emphasise that they represent in fact our strongest allies against climate change, with a vital role in the global climate system. however, as widely acknowledged, the environmental health of the oceans is in great peril, which calls for strongly coordinated efforts. therefore, i fully welcome the proposed actions within the report, which reflect the eu’s commitment towards the objective set out in sdg (sustainable development goal) 14 of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, that of achieving the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources, and to the fulfilment of which, we as a champion of the fight against climate change, have an essential contribution to bring.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, let me thank parliament for preparing this important report on women, gender equality and climate justice. let me start by emphasising that gender equality matters in its own right, and that it matters for effective climate action and sustainable development. this is rightly recognised in the report. women are disproportionately vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, where their rights and socioeconomic status are not equal to those of men, and where they have less voice and influence than men in shaping policies and prioritising how climate finance is used. the empowerment of women is an important ingredient in building climate resilience and, as pointed out in the resolution, women are primary agents of change and effective risk managers. the european union is already committed to promoting a gender perspective in climate policies, both domestically and internationally, and to supporting women’s engagement and gender equality in the international negotiations under the united nations convention on climate change (unfccc). the european union’s stance in climate negotiations has been, and continues to be, that the full and equal participation of women in climate negotiations and in the design of climate action is key. the eu delegation in climate talks also comprises over 50% women, and two out of three leading eu negotiators are women. moreover, the commission has been directly involved in shaping the development of a gender action plan under the unfccc. we have not only been participating and contributing to a round of informal consultations on the development of the gender action plan, but also are one of the few organisations providing dedicated funding to the unfccc secretariat’s work on gender activities. this support is critical for the continuation of the work that the unfccc is doing on gender. at cop 23 in bonn, the european union played an active and enabling role in the negotiations leading up to the adoption of this gender action plan. by supporting the implementation of gender—related decisions and mandates under the convention, this gender action plan seeks to advance women’s full, equal and meaningful participation and promote gender—responsive climate policy and the mainstreaming of a gender perspective in the work of parties. it sets out five priority areas: first, capacity-building, knowledge sharing and communication. second, gender—balanced participation and women’s leadership. third, coherence; fourth, gender—responsive implementation and means of implementation. and fifth, monitoring and reporting, all supported by a list of proposed activities such as workshops for policymakers on gender—responsive policies and holding a dialogue with the standing committee on finance on its work to improve gender—sensitive access to climate finance. the empowerment of women and upscaling climate action are also central in our development cooperation efforts. we implement targeted measures to tackle gender inequalities and climate change issues in our partner countries, while also mainstreaming gender equality and climate change perspectives into all aspects of our development policy. gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls are recognised as a cross-cutting driver for sustainable development in the new european consensus on development and the eu gender action plan 2016—2020. we can already see concrete results of this approach. the eu’s global climate change alliance plus flagship initiative supports climate action in different areas, including by empowering women and addressing gender issues in the context of climate change and climate-induced migration. half of the initiative’s partner countries recognise women as a particularly vulnerable group in their nationally determined contributions. the global climate change alliance plus is embarking on further gender mainstreaming in its programmes and taking a leadership role for other eu climate funding instruments. other positive examples include the evergreening africa with trees project, the forest law enforcement governance and trade action plan and the switch to green initiative. at the same time, we are ready to further increase our efforts on the ground to promote the equal rights of women in our partner countries to participate in, and directly influence, decision—making processes on climate and environmental issues as well as resilience building. closely linked to these is the key role women have in sustainable energy. they are actors of change, but are regrettably at the centre of the negative impacts of non-sustainable energy consumption. the eu’s new action, women and sustainable energy, worth eur 20 million, will foster women’s active role in sustainable energy, specifically through actions promoting women’s entrepreneurship, training and economic empowerment in the sustainable energy sector in developing countries. finally, as most of you have noted, the report also refers to the increased migration that may occur as a result of climate change. the eu has politically supported the establishment by cop 21 of the task force on displacement. at this stage, the task force will map existing relevant policies and institutional frameworks that deal with migration. after mid—2018, it will move to the phase of developing recommendations for approaches to avert, minimise and address displacement related to climate change impacts. the commission is aware of the importance of also mainstreaming gender in its internal climate policies. this summer, the commission will publish an evaluation highlighting the results of its work on adaptation since 2013, setting the basis for further development of the eu adaptation strategy. due consideration of vulnerable groups, including women, will be part of these discussions. we welcome the suggestion made in the resolution to support the development of indicators and collect gender—disaggregated data when planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating climate change policies, programmes and projects. we will also reflect on how to address this issue further in a concerted effort with all relevant commission services. last but not least, let me once again welcome this report by the european parliament and congratulate the rapporteur, ms engström, on her work on this important topic of climate change and gender equality.
in writing. – gender equality is still an unsolved problem in the european space. i congratulate the rapporteur and i will vote on this report because even in climate change we unfortunaelty see a difference between women and men. women are the ones who care for children in the event of climate calamities and climate change. i have often analysed the gender difference, in payroll, in office, in administration, and in politics. we have to watch, and i ask the commission to do so, to ensure that the new regulations that apply here are taken up in national legislation.
madam president, commissioner, i want to bring to your attention an unprecedented act of aggression against romania. on the night of 12 to 13 january, the embassy of romania, a territory of romania, was attacked by citizens of hungarian ethnicity, the symbols, the coat of arms of romania, were desecrated and vandalized, over which a flag with signs not recognized by the romanian state was placed. the embassy is not protected, international treaties on diplomacy and diplomatic immunity have been violated. as the national coalition for the modernization of romania, the largest coalition in romania, sent an open letter to the hungarian institutions, i also ask the european institutions to ask for explanations from a member state that attacks another member state. we want good neighborliness with all states, and with hungary. we are a country that respects minorities, but we want the constitution and the laws of romania to be respected.
madam president, i do not think that there has ever been a case in the history of the european union where a prime minister of a member state has threatened to hang a group of his own citizens. as you all know, this is exactly what happened last week in romania, where social democrat prime minister tudose threatened the bearers of the szekler flag, a symbol of the hungarian minority living in the country, with the following words: 'if this flag flies in the wind, the local officials will also be waving alongside it.' the definition of hate speech can be debated, but when the prime minister of a country allows himself to use such words, and no leader of a parliamentary party considers it unacceptable, no head of the romanian state and no head of any state authority speaks, then it is certainly suitable for intimidation and social acceptance of the expression of sentiments against minorities. although romania regularly claims to be exemplary in ensuring the rights of national minorities, we can see how seriously these claims can be taken when a death threat for the use of a symbol comes from the mouth of the head of the government, who resigned today.
madam president, the european union is built on values, on respect for human dignity, citizens' rights and national identities. it is not enough to talk about european values and to put them on political agendas; they must be in the minds and hearts of all politicians. and yet, my country, the prime minister of romania, has trampled on the fundamental rights of my community, the hungarian national community, when he has seriously threatened those who express their national identity with their own symbols. the saddle flag is the symbol of my community, and banning its use is ridiculous and absurd. i was shocked by the prime minister's statement, especially since a few hours earlier he had made a startling statement about the death penalty in another context. after such statements, a prime minister in europe is not worthy of his office. such a grave, offensive and threatening statement cannot go unchallenged, and i therefore welcome your resignation announced this evening.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to wish you a good and fruitful year at the start of this new session, but the global context and even the council's results that we are discussing today predict a not-so-easy year. we are facing challenges generated by crises that may have seemed one-off and unconnected in 2015, 2016, and even 2017. but today, they're amplifying and accelerating each other. i appreciate that the european council in december addressed many pressing and sensitive issues, but i am sceptical about the achievement of all the objectives set. i would like to point out once again the issue of migration. more jokingly, more seriously, if we make an analogy between the european union and global warming, then mass migration phenomena are analogous to extreme weather phenomena. and if one cause of global warming is the concentration and intensification of industrial activities, then, by analogy, the centralization and polarization of the union are clear causes of migration phenomena. the obvious solution is to rebalance the union by increasing the powers of the member states. president tusk has raised the idea of a compromise. agreed, but the first step must be taken by those who have made the mistake of irresponsibly opening the gates to migrants! (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i would like to ask our romanian colleague, mr rebega, who i know was a pro-european and who happened to be in the enf group, why he is skeptical about the future of the european union and what would be the alternative to the european union? because the alternative would just be a gray area, a fear area, an area where we would all have a lot more problems than we have now. i believe that the future is a stronger, more integrated european union.
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i'm happy to answer my colleague. i remain pro-european, but i give two examples to our romanian colleague, namely: the solidarity that the european parliament always refers to by imposing mandatory migrant quotas - yet the commission flagrantly violates the treaties on the functioning of the european union. so if we want a stronger european union, we must first of all respect what we have decided. secondly, it is important for you, mr frunzulica, to be reminded once again that romania is not part of the schengen area, even though it meets all the technical conditions imposed by the european commission. you must answer the question: is this the european union we want?
mr president, in fact this european council brought more unity, or was intending to bring more unity among the member states. i am also looking to see more solidarity between all the member states – and i am referring here to the schengen area. we cannot continue to deny access to some member states fulfilling all the conditions to the schengen area, and i refer mainly here to romania and bulgaria. i truly hope, president tusk, that during the bulgarian presidency of the council, romania and bulgaria and then croatia are going to be accepted as fully fledged members of the schengen area. as well as this, i hail the adoption of this european defence industrial development programme and the first eu defence fund in view of financing the first capabilities projects for a future european defence union.
mr president, mr tusk, we are looking at the december meeting today. i would like to ask you, mr president of the council, whether you consider 2017 to have been a good year? let's not forget that we ended 2017 with brexit, there's still a lot of unrest in the member states, there's still the idea of division - we have catalonia, we have a behavior of hungary that you probably heard about, the last one being the vandalism of the romanian embassy in budapest, the countries that met the technical conditions, romania and bulgaria, are not in schengen. bulgaria holds the presidency and it is unfair to have a president of europe without being in the schengen area. do you think that for the future, however, we are getting to a single space, to a single europe, to unity? because yes, there is progress, we have the social pillar, we have some things that we have recorded as progress, but that doesn't mean that we have to forget that there are things that are still unresolved and i think that these should be prioritized.
mr president, i would like to say to mr tokes that he should apologize for the statements he made, because i informed parliament yesterday, through a political statement, that the romanian embassy in budapest had been desecrated, the coat of arms and emblems of the unitary romanian state had been removed and covered with other textiles that are not recognized as flags and that the secuan country, which mr laszlo tokes is always talking about, was never independent, although it is requested in the centenary year - romania will celebrate on 1 december the union, the great union and the creation of the romanian state - independent separation. i want the institution and the parliament to get involved and explain to the hungarian state why an embassy is not guarded and why the embassy and the embassy's insignia are desecrated.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: eu support for the peace process in colombia (2017/3021(rsp))
you know how it works. you asked a question, our colleague has answered, and that is it. we have to stop here even if we are not satisfied with the result; that is the rule.
mr president, colombia is one of the most complex countries in the world. fifty-two years of armed conflict have caused much suffering to the people and the country. the achievement of a peace agreement was an extraordinary challenge and we still have to celebrate it, although we know very well that the priority of the peace process now is not to lose sight of the humanitarian gains made in the process in recent months and the gains made in reducing violence. the challenge, and the next step, is to reach the most remote areas of the country and change the conditions that have led to the spread of violence. although colombia has the lowest murder rate in 42 years globally, as the un secretary general said after his last visit to colombia, it is absolutely necessary to accelerate the active presence of the state in the entire national territory. this transition period towards peace is an opportunity to confront and resolve problems such as cases of murders of human rights defenders. as a first step, the colombian government took the decision to deploy 60,000 military and police personnel to the most critical areas. it's not enough, but it's a first step. other aspects are very important too: rural reform, including access to land, long-term development plans, investments... and in this respect, european union cooperation plays a central role because of its high impact and political value. i am personally very proud of the support which the european union has offered to colombia and its peace process, including through the trust fund, and i am convinced that it will continue its cooperation with colombia in its political and practical dimension. as president santos recently pointed out, peace is achieved with the will and concrete deeds of peace, not just words.
mr president, the time has come for the european parliament to renew its commitment to colombia and its citizens and to reiterate its support for the peace process. the expiration of the ceasefire agreement between the colombian government and the eln should not jeopardise all that has been achieved through diplomatic efforts, dialogue and confidence-building measures. it is vital for an agreement on the extension of the ceasefire to be concluded swiftly and for the eln to show commitment to peace and restraint. but this is also a crucial election year for colombia. after five decades of armed conflict and more than 220 000 deaths, elections in the country must be an opportunity to advance the peace process to the benefit of all colombians, and to defeat those forces willing to sacrifice colombia and have it regress to 2012 purely for political gain. the needs and aspirations of the people of colombia can only be fulfilled by the peace agreement, which is the only viable path to a secure, stable and prosperous colombia.
madam president, it was the epp group that asked for this debate on the situation in iran to be included in the agenda, because we believe that the european union cannot remain silent on the most important demonstrations that the country has experienced for almost a decade. at least 25 people have lost their lives, some 4,000 people have been arrested, and, as you know, tens of thousands of iranians protested in 80 cities across the country to defend their dignity, their freedom and their economic survival. so i say that it is an obligation for us to make europe's voice heard on these demonstrations and on these implications, because for the whole world, the almost complete silence of europe during these demonstrations was difficult to understand. and the image given by the high representative, who was in cuba at the beginning of the year to promote friendship with the cubans and very hesitant about iran, did not represent a good start to the year in terms of foreign policy. i am very sorry to say this, but the european position has been very difficult to explain to our partners. we must insist that the right to peaceful protest be respected in iran and that those unjustly arrested for attempting to exercise this right be released. above all, we must make our voices heard, because these demonstrations are an unmissable opportunity to promote political and economic reforms in the country. this is in the interests of regional peace, stability and non-proliferation. if we are silent about human rights, it does not help in the matter of non-proliferation. we are well aware that these protests were very different from what happened in 2009, that there were also conservatives who started movements, but the right of iranians to express their discontent does not take into account these political divisions, these ideological divisions. therefore, let us have the courage to ask our iranian partners for economic reforms, because they are open to cooperation with europe, but we must be quite frank about this issue. a foreign affairs mission will very likely visit the country and i think that will be an opportunity to mention this prospect: cooperation on a number of issues, but also respect for rights and the promotion of economic reforms with a view to liberalizing the regime.
madam president, as many have already underlined, we are following with concern the ongoing demonstrations in iran. it is crucial for the authorities to guarantee the fundamental rights of peaceful demonstration and freedom of expression and for all parties concerned to show restraint and to refrain from the use of violence. the socioeconomic situation in iran has certainly contributed to the recent wave of protests and it is vital for the authorities to address effectively the needs and demands of the population with bold policies and a comprehensive package of reforms. the current situation, however, should not in any way be associated with the nuclear deal, which we continue to support with determination and which is delivering on its goal, that is, keeping the iranian nuclear programme in check and under close surveillance. the international atomic energy agency has confirmed in all its reports that iran is fully complying with its commitments.
madam president, i truly regret and strongly deplore and condemn any disproportionate use of violence during the confrontations of recent days in iran, as well as the 20 deaths in clashes with police. we should also consider also that the iranian population is now complaining about the lack of socio-economic progress. iranians need, most of all, economic and social reforms and democratic conditions. considering all of this, i strongly support the call to end the violent conflict in respect of human rights and peaceful protests. last, but not least, we have to closely monitor the nuclear deal to ensure that iran respects and fully implement this deal, which still plays a very important role for the region.
madam president, we need to be careful in our assessment of the internal processes in iran. while the anti-government movements of masses dissatisfied with the economic and social situation can be interpreted as a desire for democratization, some believe that it is precisely the conservative line against the current president that is fueling the tension. in recent years, the conservative trend in iran has weakened, and this trend is certainly good news for the democratic process, which is why the current processes are dangerous, as they can easily have the opposite effect. violence is not the answer to anything, the government must listen to the protests of citizens, but the economic and political opening that has been achieved in recent years - albeit cautiously and slowly - between the international community and iran should be preserved. this is something that can be built upon, but not complete isolation and conservative reorganization.
mr president, after a difficult political year for kenya, unfortunately the situation in the country remains extremely tense and volatile. we are concerned about the prolonged period of instability and the latest developments. the enthusiasm and commitment of the kenyan people to the democratic process and to shaping the country’s future has been marred by tensions amongst political forces escalating into outright violence. many shortcomings in the electoral process were identified by the eu election observation mission led by our colleague, ms schaake. since the elections, the situation has failed to stabilise and the use of force by the police and the persistent attacks against human rights defenders on the ground are a cause for grave concern. it is high time for all forces in kenya to show political maturity and to come together to lay the preconditions for an environment conducive to constructive dialogue in order to address the many challenges the country faces today.
mr president, following the worrying situation in kenya, especially regarding the disappointment of last year’s presidential elections, i would like to express my support to the kenyan people involved in democratic life. unfortunately the last elections brought frustrations after the repeated confrontation of the opposition against the electoral commission, during which more than 90 people died, shot by police. in the light of these violent and tragic episodes, kenya’s democratic functioning and the situation of human rights defenders was weakened. therefore, i would like to support the call to immediately end the violent conflict and to encourage the political forces in kenya to find solutions. the european commission has to play a very important role in this situation using its full tools of soft power. last, but not least, i would like to thank publicly vice president czarnecki for his activity as vice—president of this parliament.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange, and as someone said: ‘the voice of the european parliament is basically united’, and that is important. we have sent a strong message to kenya and the kenyan people. i would like to thank you for your speeches and also express thanks on behalf of the high-representative / vice-president. thank you again, ms schaake and your team for the fantastic job that you have been doing and also the people on the ground in kenya who made it possible for everybody involved in the election observation mission. the report and the recommendations that the mission produced are very useful and helpful. the european union will continue to engage with kenya to support it in its path to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. as has been said, kenya is an important friend, and we will stand by the kenyan people. i also want to use this opportunity extend my gratitude on behalf of the high-representative to all the european electoral missions and the teams in the european parliament who make such essential contributions to peace and democracy all across the world.
in writing. – firstly, i would like to welcome and further encourage the strengthened bilateral relations between the eu and kenya. despite the difficulties and instability in the area, this state has proven to have a great humanitarian sense and considerable capacity for solidarity, hosting already almost half a million refugees. however, kenya’s stability and further development are closely linked to the rule of law. during the last electoral process, citizens showed their determination to live in a functional democratic system. given kenya’s key role of providing stability in the east africa area, i find it crucial to have persistence on eu missions in the area, in order to strengthen democracy, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. finally, i would like to emphasise the special warmth shown by kenyan citizens during my visit to the region. it is an attitude from which we all should learn. therefore, i would like to end by expressing my respect, support and sympathy for the kenyan people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european union is a champion in promoting global free trade and the multilateral rules—based trading system. at the same time, it needs to remain a key advocate for fairer trade. the benefits of globalisation do indeed have to reach all citizens and all communities. the eu needs to strive for an effective application of sustainable trade clauses included in our free trade agreements (ftas), and our citizens expect us to turn theory into practice in line with the eu agenda for jobs and growth. the provisions of existing trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapters already include a comprehensive set of binding provisions. these are based on multilateral norms, respecting the relevant ilo conventions and multilateral and environmental agreements. i strongly believe that the eu can make a difference in the essential fields of labour rights and environmental protection, amongst others, and also through its tsd chapters in our ftas. the committee on international trade (inta) has a strong preoccupation with the potential avenues to improve the current affairs in tsd chapters’ implementation, and so do the epp members in inta. in—depth analysis and thorough debate have already been dedicated to the possible ways forward. in conclusion to all that work, i can share the epp group’s view that we see sanctions as a last—resort mechanism and would appreciate turning towards more effective ways to deal with the problem at hand. trade agreements can serve as a good tool for economic diplomacy. however, a sanction—based mechanism, by its punitive character, could possibly destabilise the relationship with our trade partners and backfire in various counter—demands. the experience gathered so far at the global level shows that trade—related sanctions fall short of delivering the desired results. on the contrary, these have often worked to the detriment of those that have introduced them, and concomitantly to the disadvantage of the less privileged partner. we do not see conclusive evidence that sanctions could lead to an improvement of the effectiveness and the implementation of the tsd chapters. the epp relies on the efficiency of dialogue with our partners, and with all the stakeholders, and cooperation with international organisations, as currently stated in the existing tsd provisions. the way forward is to consolidate these chapters and to strive for the more effective and sustainable implementation of this important pillar in our value—based trade policy. some of the concrete proposals have just been stated and highlighted by commissioner cecilia malmström, and the epp strongly supports these suggestions.
mr president, i salute the commissioner’s initiative on promoting a sustainable trade approach. as we already know from previous successful experience, a free trade agreement (fta) is the perfect entry door for many other policies, programmes and areas of eu interest, such as human and workers’ rights or environmental issues. the gulf area is a top priority for the eu as well. related to this area, the eu has many more topics on its agenda than just trade: defence and security cooperation, the fight against terrorism and regional cooperation for the support and stabilisation of surrounding regions, especially the middle east and sub-saharan africa. all of these are high priorities on the eu’s agenda. unfortunately, the eu-gulf cooperation council (gcc) negotiations for an fta have been suspended since 2008. in line with the current debate on ways to improve eu trade agreements, i would like the commission to consider the possibility of a country-by-country approach in the gulf area. the eu has already signed successful ftas with many third countries. i do not see why we cannot have a similar approach in relations with gcc members. the commission must know already that several gcc countries are open to a bilateral fta with the eu. we all know oman as a successful, stable country – a role model for the whole region. we also notice the remarkable progress made by qatar in its legislation on the protection of workers’ right and labour conditions – changes that have already been noticed by both the international labour organisation (ilo) and the united nations. these two countries can represent a good start for a new approach in fta negotiations to be considered by the commission for this region. such proceedings have the potential to unlock the process for the whole gcc. we can even use the experience from a different area of policy, namely the visa regime. a liberalisation in eu relations with the united arab emirates (uae) was followed by a clear increase in trade between the parties and improvements, at the same time, of the human rights situation in the uae. therefore, visa liberalisation can also go hand-in-hand with negotiations for free trade agreements with these countries and others in the region.
in writing. the bulgarian presidency will have important implications for the south east europe region and will bring to the fore important issues such as the future of cohesion and security policies. there are also expectations that the bulgarian government will put pressure on the extension of the schengen area to bulgaria and romania, but also on the lifting of the verification and cooperation mechanism on the two countries. the bulgarian presidency also brings a new lease of life to european integration and rejects the possibility of a two-speed europe. as countries on the border of the european union, bulgaria and romania can bring a different perspective on the future of the european project, based on the idea of solidarity. i believe that we need more cooperation between member states, but also closer relations with the union's neighbours. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i will also monitor the positioning of the bulgarian presidency with regard to the connectivity objectives. having common interests in infrastructure development, i would like bulgaria and romania to prioritise the development of a strategy for south east europe, which identifies connectivity issues and links transport policies with tourism policies.
the next item on the agenda is the thematic debate on russia influence of propaganda on eu states (2018/2507(rsp)). i would like to inform you all that this debate is not about the 'catch the eye' procedure and no blue cards are accepted.
you are right, because if we do not pay proper attention it means that fake news becomes truth and then truth becomes fake news. with your permission, i would draw your attention to an article which has been published in the latest issue of the atlantic which deals with the subject.
mr. president, putin's propaganda contains anti-western rhetoric, seeks to influence elections and cultivates a positive image of the autocracy in russia. before the new year, a new headquarters for putin's internet trolls was inaugurated, a conducive environment for propaganda. in romania, the work of these trolls is facilitated by numerous public figures, politicians or so-called journalists. former mep adrian severin, for example, publishes texts on the russian propaganda websites sputnik and russia today, which also take in extenso the positions of sorin rosca stănescu, former pnl senator, and adrian nastase, former socialist prime minister. their common denominator: challenging corruption convictions. pro-russian propaganda has become in the romanian context a tool of the fight against the judicial institutions, anti-corruption legislation, the influence of the european union and the united states. the special relationship between socialists and russian propaganda is also confirmed by incumbent politicians, such as the psd deputy from bucharest liviu pleșoianu, who also fights with the romanian justice and broadcasts ultranationalist speeches. the world of journalism is not, either, forgiven for the sin of flirting with russian-origin disinformation. information from the kremlin is sometimes presented as truthful, without any critical spirit. there are colleagues here in the european parliament from the s&d group who share exactly the same views as the russian propaganda. i see, for example, mrs. grapini, right here with us.
you cannot combat fake news with other fake news.
mr coburn, you practically managed to transform a blue card into a speech at the end of your intervention. that is not allowed. we have to respect the time limit because otherwise other colleagues would not be able to exercise their democratic right to speak.
i am afraid that technology today has eliminated our privacy, that is my belief.
mr. president, we've been talking about russian fake propaganda for a long time, and we're doing this because yes, it's real, it's true, and it's a threat. just a week ago, u.s. senators detailed in a 200-plus page report the kremlin's practices of influencing elections in states across multiple continents. once again, it is reaffirmed that moscow has no hesitation in controlling elections and intervening even in consolidated democracies. in the kremlin, manipulation, disinformation and lying are state policy to control domestic and foreign policy decisions in as many countries of the world as possible, if possible, in all of them. and here, the foreign action service has only 14 employees in east stratcom, which is supposed to be fighting thousands and thousands of russian false propaganda trolls. obviously, it's a joke and it's totally insufficient. and in response to a colleague earlier who said that he hoped that there would be no russian federation agents in the european parliament at the elections, i want to tell you that we still have russian federation agents in the european parliament today and we had them in the last mandate. to conclude, people died for democracy and for free elections. so we have to respect their wish, we want to live in a democracy and politicians who collaborate with russia for various interests are betraying us.
madam president, the chief editor of russia today said that russia today is capable of conducting an information war against the whole western world: to conquer and to grow an audience in order to make use of this audience at critical moments. it seems that the kremlin decided a long time ago that the eu is an enemy of russian interests and should be treated accordingly, by any means. but our lack of action shows that the eu does not perceive russia as a real threat and we are not doing enough. we must end this dolce farniente and decide more quickly about our position on strategic communication and counter propaganda; such a decision must be followed by actions with an appropriate budget. either we respond on the same scale or we start an open dialogue with russia based on our interests and priorities. we must understand that this is not about an ideological conflict. the kremlin’s propaganda is targeting very concrete files, such as the energy file and, using the old, but effective, strategy of divide et impera. it will clearly win this game if we do not take firm action today. (applause)
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of the commission, can i just express our appreciation for the work that this parliament does to address the issues around this phenomenon, this challenge of disinformation. today’s debate obviously, but not just starting today, going back some time, a number of you have mentioned the resolution that ms fotyga was rapporteur for in 2016. deliberate disinformation raises the stakes. it raises the stakes both for freedom of expression and for our properly functioning democracies. the challenge for public authorities at all levels is to find ways of tackling disinformation without having an adverse effect on freedom of expression, as a number of you have underlined. it is no good our seeking to counter disinformation or fake news by setting up some kind of 1984-style ministry of truth; and we are not going to do that. as i said earlier, the commission is looking at what more might be done to address the challenge of hostile propaganda, fake news and online disinformation, always bearing in mind that balance between countering disinformation and respecting our democratic rights including crucially freedom of expression. so we are reinforcing our stratcom’s efforts. we will continue our support to media freedom of expression. we will come forward with proposals focusing on this challenge of fake news later this spring. we are looking at what more we can do with the big internet platforms to address these issues and we are pursuing, with you, the measures that need to be taken to reinforce our cybersecurity, our cyber resilience and deterrence. those are concrete steps that we are taking on these issues. honourable members, this has been a most timely debate.
acting president of the council. madam president, thank you. madam president, thank you again for inviting me to this debate. i have followed it closely, and it has again illustrated the topical character and the scale of the challenge posed by disinformation and propaganda. as some members have mentioned, the tools we already have, such as east stratcom, are proving to be valuable in raising awareness of disinformation, but it is clear that they are only a part of the response to such challenges. today's debate also further highlighted the need for eu institutions and member states to further cooperate. supporting greater media literacy and media plurality is also essential, and here all member states have a role to play too. the european union should further communicate positive narratives and fact-based messages and develop resilience among its citizens towards propaganda and disinformation. in this way people will not feel confused or insecure and will be able to engage in critical thinking, distinguishing facts from propaganda. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i am not referring to the substance, i just wanted to refer to the false things that were said on the basis of this article that you said. my name was spoken. my colleague cristian preda, who, by the way, left the room, used his speaking time in this extremely important debate on a very important topic, accusing me of being pro-russian. i am a pro-european demonstrated in the country and here, through my work. we have shown this in the country and here, and i think we cannot debate fake news by feeding our colleagues in the parliament, the commission, the council with fake information. and i think it's unethical, he's a man who doesn't enjoy any popularity, he's no longer a member of a political party, he's totally discredited and i don't think it's normal to accuse without arguments. and i think we should try to find a solution where those who come here with accusations -- we should also benefit from the presumption of innocence -- come with evidence. i think that would be the ethical way in a forum like the european parliament, and it's not the first time that mr. cristian preda has done this. we should, however, summarize and ask those who speak to refer to the subject under discussion. it is an important subject and i very much believe in everything that the commissioner and the council and many colleagues here have said in the debates that we, the european union, the european commission, parliament can do more to prevent fake news. i am a member of the libe committee and you know that i am involved and i appreciated tanja fajon's own-initiative report, which wants us to find a solution together to combat fake news. thank you - my intervention was only about an absolutely shameful attack.
madam president, the world has moved from the industrial age to the post-industrial age. increasingly, the supply of jobs is growing in the service sector, while in the traditional industrial or agricultural sectors, the supply of jobs is falling dramatically. i appreciate this report discussing the youth employment initiative in the european union. we need a strong and dynamic segment that is, in fact, our future, the future of the european union. i firmly believe that the union as a whole will not be able to compete with the united states or china if it cannot provide young people with the conditions in which to unleash their energy and creativity. europe's young people are surrounded by elements of a multi-millennial culture. these elements are a cultural background but also an urge to develop specific patterns. in this context, i would like to see youth employment initiatives linked as closely as possible to elements of culture and tradition. this is all the more possible as we enter an era of creative industries. europe is unity, but it is also diversity. this idea must be passed on to our young people.
madam president, commissioner, i have been working in the field of youth policy for as long as i can remember and i am therefore a strong supporter of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. following a mission to slovenia and croatia, and many other examples of good practice in the european union, i would like to encourage all member states, the european commission and my colleagues in this parliament to strive for the following: first, a clear definition of what a quality offer for these young people means, including: tailored learning programmes, working conditions, social protection and quality pay. secondly, the initiative is designed to complement other measures taken at member state level, so i encourage member states to make a more ambitious commitment, both financially and in terms of developing quality and, above all, sustainable programmes. i also hope that this initiative will receive adequate funding in the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. europe cannot afford to lose this young generation with so much potential.
madam president, as stated in the report, although we came a long way from the alarming height of 24% youth unemployment in 2013, at present only a handful of member states have this rate at less than 11 %. youth unemployment ‒ with its lasting effects both on economic productivity and growth as well as on individuals ‒ remains a strong concern and needs particular attention. with support provided to more than 1.6 million young people and operations amounting to more than eur 4 billion, the youth employment initiative has had a considerable impact on employment in recent years; although its success depended to a large extent on national factors such as implementation capacity. however, the report rightly points out that the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are no substitutes for macroeconomic and other national policies to promote employment in general and youth employment in particular. there are member states which have not yet implemented much needed educational, economic and social structural reforms to address the challenges they are faced with. seeing several positive results achieved until now, i hope that an updated youth employment initiative can be a better driver for policy reform in the fields of education, public employment services and improved synergies with employers in order to provide a better future for our youth.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to thank you for your report and for this extremely important subject. if we don't solve the problem of youth unemployment, we see young people leaving not from one country to another in europe, but even to other continents, and we are feeding national and european budgets with skilled labour for the united states, for china, for india. i think we need to find complementary measures. of course i support this initiative, but, as a colleague said, and he said it well, we need to look at how we reform education as well. i have a concrete example in my country: we educate people for jobs that are not found in the economy, and i think there has to be this connection between what we educate, what jobs the economy provides, and where we invest in vocational training. we need adult education, because parents no longer want to send their children to vocational schools the abolition of vocational schools has brought such effects. and i believe in a comprehensive programme with measures to complement this initiative, but it must be continued, of course, with the initiative relating to the youth guarantee and the youth initiative.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, mr vice-president, since the publication of the green paper on the plastics strategy in 2013, we have tackled a major problem that seriously endangers the environment and the health of europeans. from 'all-plastic' yesterday, we are now taking the more sensible path of economy and recycling. the alarming figure of eight million tonnes of plastic waste dumped into our oceans every year calls for action. combating pollution by increasing the life span of plastics and their recyclability, promoting biodegradable plastics and empowering consumers are steps in the right direction. but we need to go further, to ban plastic wherever possible, especially where other options already exist, and to move as far away as possible from the 'all-throwaway' logic. i am thinking in particular of single-use plastics, which can be replaced quickly by cardboard or recycled paper-based materials, and which are sustainable alternatives. in any case, mr vice-president, you can count on our group to put forward proposals for this ambitious strategy.
madam president, the plastic strategy is long-awaited and from what i hear already today the commissioners will have huge support in the european parliament to help them deliver on this strategy. we all agree that high-quality recycling of plastics is a key part of the process, yet we need a viable market for them. that is why i welcomed the proposal for quality standards for recycled plastics and the intention to incentivise packaging for the construction and car industries to use more of them. that creates a complete economic value chain, giving the industry the possibility to adapt to the new rules. moreover, while taking into account food safety, we need to discourage multi-layer packaging and encourage easier-to-recycle plastics. we can and should have more ambition when it comes to micro-plastics in detergents in detergents and cosmetics and single-use plastics, by building on the success of our legislation on plastic bags. in the end, as has been said many times, the ocean and the seas are being suffocated by plastic particles, and i’m very happy to see the eur 100 million in funding for research and support for action on marine litter. however, we need to consider every level of production, recycling and disposal for this strategy to be a success story.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the publication of the plastics strategy. i would like to make a comment on costs. the strategy states that between 70 and 105 billion euros are wasted every year in unrecycled plastic waste. you also refer to the environmental damage caused by marine litter or the incineration of plastic waste. but we also have to talk about the health costs. every year, millions of tons of plastic waste are generated, with a polluting impact on the environment that is difficult, if not impossible, to eliminate. what are the health risks of the tiny pieces of plastic that can now be found in the air, in drinking water, in some of the food we eat? the strategy will ensure that the commission will ensure that plastic micro-particles are covered by chemicals legislation. it's an important step, but it may not be enough. the european union has not made sufficient progress in research and reducing citizens' exposure to toxic substances, although it is obliged to do so under the seventh environment action programme.
madam president, while acknowledging that plastic is an important material for our economy and daily lives, serious threats emerge when plastics end up in the environment, especially in the oceans and in the seas, where they have an impact on nature, the climate and human health. therefore, we have to bring strong capabilities in order to tackle this worrying issue and to frame a robust strategy for improving the economics, quality and rate of plastic recycling and reuse, especially when plastic production is expected to almost quadruple by 2050. i therefore fully welcome the first ever europe-wide strategy on plastics, which would ensure that the design and production of plastics and plastic products fully match the use, repair and recycling needs, and that more sustainable materials are developed and promoted, while laying the foundations for a new plastic economy and bringing new opportunities for innovation, competitiveness and job creation. in my personal opinion, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president of the commission, the european union has to ban the plastic bags within a very short period of time.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since i started this report i have had the concrete feeling of the alignment of the planets. a year with so much historical weight, so much importance and weight, the first year when the first world war ended and the borders of today's europe were drawn, when new states emerged, new nations, including my country, romania, emerged then, and because of that, i think we are at a point of extreme importance for all european institutions. i have to thank everyone who participated in this report. many of them are right here in the room. and when i went through the most difficult moment of my life in the european parliament, negotiating with the commission and the council, i had them all by my side, i was like one, and i achieved something that very rarely happens or is very rarely accepted, namely the involvement of the parliament alongside the other european institutions. the first reaction was that we were violating the treaties -- a disaster. in the end we all argued and we managed to get this, that's why we're all together. my argument at the time was this: this is a year of great importance, we must all be together in this celebration, in this open museum, a huge museum that is 27 countries, open for a year, symbolically speaking, where we must get to know each other, to show off what we have that is best and most representative of our national identity to each other and to others. my argument was this: if there is a problem, a flaw, it is the break between europe, the european institutions and the citizen. the best people to put this together are the members of parliament themselves. i therefore invite members of parliament everywhere in all member states to get involved in this european year of heritage. the news you gave us, commissioner, is excellent. i hope that by the end of this year we can enjoy the results we've been looking forward to.
in writing. the european year of cultural heritage 2018 is highly relevant and the public debate about the value of europe's cultural heritage is growing. at a time when cultural memory and heritage are being relativized, when many europeans are asking themselves who we are as europeans and what our vision is, it is important to show what values unite us as europeans and at the same time distinguish us from others. some of our cultural heritage is linked to our religious traditions, some to our national identity and some to elements of our common european identity. like humanism, the renaissance, or religious freedom. religious freedom, which was first proclaimed in europe almost exactly 450 years ago, in 1568, at the transylvanian torá, thirty years before the edict of nantes. i wish the commission every success with this year's events and ask the member states to do everything they can to ensure that the high-quality event is a success.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, it seems that once again you are not representing the europe of nations but the europe of nationalism. you know, what you said about the models applied by each member state on this subject - what is your opinion on the models that all the member states of the european union can apply on the subject we are debating this morning?
madam president, commissioner, regulation of professional services and qualifications is important for the internal market. i'm surprised at the position of some colleagues who show that they would actually block. on the contrary, free movement of citizens, and especially young people who are training in certain service sectors, to be able to practise in any member state in fact, that is what we are, a european union and an internal market, that is what it means. i congratulate my colleague danti on the report, on the balance, on the many good amendments. thank you, commissioner. and i think it's important to understand that the effective and efficient implementation of this report leads, on the one hand, to competitiveness, better services, lower prices and better quality of service for consumers. and i also strongly believe that, on the contrary, if we vote today for this regulation and implement it, it will lead to the elimination of unjustified and disproportionate discrimination, especially for young professionals. i support the report and hope it will be voted on.
madam president, i welcome this very important report which highlights that high-quality professional services and an effective regulatory environment are of utmost importance for preserving the eu’s economic, social and cultural model and for boosting the competitiveness of the european union. i would like to recall that regulated professions, which represent up to 22% of the labour force in the eu and cover many crucial sectors, constitute a significant element in the economy of the member states, and rules on regulated professions are usually imposed to ensure the protection of general interest objectives such as public health, consumer protection or public security. indeed in many cases the regulation is justified on the above-mentioned grounds. however for a regulation to be fair for professionals and to ensure mobility within the european union, the latter has to fully respect the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality, and the member states must be transparent about the rules they put forward. i conclude by stressing that irrespective of the model applied by each country, where restrictions may be removed or be rendered more proportionate, these tasks should be carried out for the benefit of european citizens.
madam president, a shopkeeper who advocated for the teaching of the tibetan language so that future generations of tibetans would not grow up unable to speak their mother tongue is charged with ‘inciting separatism’ and risks one-and-a-half decades of his freedom. a monk is jailed for celebrating the birthday of his spiritual leader, and is forced by prison authorities to perform hard labour despite failing health, while his family is restricted from meeting him or bringing him medicine. peaceful human rights activists are imprisoned and reportedly subjected to torture. events like these are the norm in china. what is the eu’s response? just recently it agreed on an eu-china tourism year. in the face of such grave human rights abuses, it is vital for us to keep a firm, principled and united response, especially in the light of china’s assertive foreign policy that aims to silence criticism through informal investment agreements on the one hand and bullying and intimidation on the other.
member of the commission. – madam president, the five cases we have discussed today raise serious concerns about due process and respect for the rule of law in china, and more generally about the state of human rights and freedom of expression in the country. during the trials of peaceful campaigners lee ming-cheh and tashi wangchuk, blogger wu gan, and lawyer xie yang, we observed procedural irregularities that are inconsistent with china’s criminal procedural law and constitution. we have followed all these cases very closely and we have voiced our concerns both with public statements and in our direct contacts with the chinese authorities. when accounts came to light that xie yang and wu gan had been tortured, we immediately called upon the chinese authorities to investigate promptly and to punish those responsible. lee ming-cheh has recently been sentenced to five years in prison for exercising his freedom of expression. this right should be guaranteed under china’s constitution, and not punished. we call for the release of all the individuals mentioned, not least of tashi wangchuk, who is still on trial and is facing up to 15 years in prison for allegedly inciting separatism. the main prosecution evidence against him appears to be a video published by the new york times where he did no more than advocate the rights of tibetans to study in their mother tongue. the tibetan monk choekyi was reportedly arrested for celebrating the dalai lama’s birthday in 2015. the news of his deteriorating health situation is troubling. we urge the chinese authorities immediately to grant him parole on humanitarian grounds and to allow him to receive the necessary medical assistance. already last summer at our human rights dialogue with china, we emphasised the deteriorating situation in relation to civil and political rights in china. such deterioration contrasts very starkly with the significant improvements in the chinese people’s standard of living. we have witnessed improvements in the sphere of some civil rights and we have welcomed the commitment by the chinese authorities to ensure legal representation for greater numbers of criminal defendants. the chinese authorities have committed to promoting law-based governance and to the creation of a modern and prosperous society, but these goals are impossible to achieve when the full range of human rights is not guaranteed. there can be no sustainable development without a fair justice system and without freedom of expression for all. this continues to be our message to the chinese authorities and we will keep raising all these individual cases until justice is finally done.
the authors. madam president, it is necessary and we demand that president joseph kabila commit to holding parliamentary elections before 23 december 2018. and the presidential election. only then can the conflict in the congo be weakened in intensity. the region has been and is heavily destabilised. government forces are trying to silence civil protests. in 2016, in just three days, 62 protesters were killed by the security forces. in november 2017, 59 activists, journalists and other political opponents were still being illegally detained. naturally, we ask for their release. children are being drafted into the army, torture of the population continues. all this must stop and those guilty must pay. the sanctions and investigations for the highest officials and any responsible person who is to answer for war crimes and crimes against humanity must be extended.
madam president, commissioner, i join my colleagues in saying that we cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in the congo. we cannot be indifferent to any violation of human rights. after all, we say in the european union that we have values related to human rights, peace, the rule of law and, of course, the serious cases that are happening now in the congo, the release of prisoners, must take place as soon as possible. we have to find the levers through which we can intervene because i think there has to be a united action of the international institutions. i am talking about the un, which is sitting idly by. the eu must not hesitate to give its full support to the congolese people. we have to see how, because stopping aid to the congo would have an effect on the citizens and i don't think that's what we want. we want justice, we want human rights to be respected and those who violate human rights to be punished.
i voted in favour of today's accession to the marrakesh treaty. as my colleagues have said, this treaty is a good international compromise. on the one hand, the protection of copyright and, on the other, the accessibility of individual copyright works to citizens with visual disabilities. it is good that the eu has signed up to this treaty in this way. one of our european values is the protection of citizens with a disability, and it is in line with this philosophy that we are well placed to accede to this treaty.
mr president, in the european union, some 250 000 children are reported missing every year, one child every two minutes. second in the list of disappearances is the abduction of a child by one of the parents and the taking of that child to another country - that's what the figures from missing children europe show us. the best interests of children must be protected regardless of the legal proceedings between the parents they may be divorced or have other problems and regardless of the conflicts between the parents. we need urgent measures to improve the effective recognition of judgments in civil matters especially child custody judgments, if applicable, because that is when many other parent abductions take place and access to justice in such cases needs to be simplified. it is simply necessary to resolve rapidly cross-border disputes involving abducted children.
mr president, the rate of youth unemployment in the european union has been falling steadily. in 2017, the unemployment rate is 17%, compared to 24% in 2013. of course it's a joyful thing, but we must go on. i believe that the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee are two powerful tools in the fight against unemployment and in encouraging young people. young people need to learn from school to do research, to innovate, to develop their free spirit and entrepreneurial spirit, and then, of course, they need the benefits precisely so that they can apply what they have learned, to do research, to innovate, because that is the only way a country progresses and, of course, jobs are created for them. the initiative complements national funding, so we don't have to rely on european money alone, we have to fund at home too.
mr president, today we adopted the directive on professional qualifications and the need for reform in the professional services sector in the european union. we need this reform because scientific and technological progress has a permanent, powerful impact on services, on professions. basically, we have to learn to do things differently every day or do new things that we've never done before. all of this brings opportunities for professionals - sure, for those who want to learn new things - and challenges in the labour market and in the field of employment. the quality of services is also affected for better or worse depending on the progress that each specialist personally makes. member states must carry out a market analysis to ensure that service providers adapt to market needs and must develop policies to make union professional services globally competitive.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i hope you're listening, things are much more extensive than today's subject. obviously, today's discussion brings up a problem that we find in other cases: the negotiating power of the european commission in trade agreements with non-european countries. we also have the brexit agreement with the uk, we have problems with switzerland, but the disagreement between norway and the european union is causing economic damage, of course, and an environmental dimension. i thank you for being very fair, commissioner, and for informing us that you have not yet reached some solutions. today's question and debate were to find out when and why the council is postponing and why you are not finding a solution. we cannot pray for norway. there is an agreement and it must be respected. we cannot have economic losses in the european area, certainly from the smallest fishermen we are talking about the national budgets of the states that now cannot benefit from the agreement that is in force between the european union [and norway]. and i think, commissioner, that you have to go back to the commission and make it very clear that this is not the only case. the commission must understand that it must resolve these disputes in a very short time in order not to cause further damage. and this has been going on for a long time, and this is, as i said, found in other cases.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome this debate as part of the european central bank’s accountability towards the european parliament. as you have said, president draghi, the euro area recovery continues at a steady pace; unemployment has continued to decline and has reached the lowest level since january 2009; domestic demand has strengthened, and we have seen 18 quarters of consecutive growth. however, the positive economic outlook still has to translate into higher public and private investments and we still have to progress on reaching our inflation objective. we are still concerned about the risks of the persisting low interest rates for the insurance and pension sectors as well as for private savings. this is an important element of the european parliament’s report with regard to the ecb’s activity for 2016. this is why the ongoing tapering is necessary for the economy to get back on track and to be self-sustaining. unconventional monetary policy tools have reached their limits. monetary policy cannot and shall not be the tool to resolve all of the eu’s economic and financial shortcomings. i agree with president draghi when he says that member states have to increase their efforts in implementing growth-enhancing structural reforms, while at the same time maintaining sound and responsible budgets to support the economic recovery. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, jonás fernández, for his work on this report, and we are sending – with the debate today and with its adoption tomorrow, hopefully with a large majority – a clear signal to the ecb on the parliament’s position on your activity in the year 2016.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i inferred that you are dissatisfied with the policy made by the european bank, given that there has been no significant decline in inflation, but the report states in paragraph 18. do you think monetary policy is enough to bring about economic recovery and growth, or do we also need fiscal policies, social policies, so that we can get to lower unemployment, lower growth and, of course, lower inflation?
mr president, i have read this 13-page report carefully and i must say that i am disappointed to see that only one and a half lines in article 24 refer to smes. i think we all know that there is still no lending to smes in the member states, although the share in our economy, in the internal market, is smes. i would like to ask mr draghi if he can tell us in the final part of the debate whether the ecb has any proposals regarding the practical, rather than the theoretical, possibility of lending to smes. the report does, of course, predict the productivity deficit in the euro area, and, above all, it somehow worries me that this deficit is estimated to go through 2020. can the ecb do anything to prevent this from happening, i.e. not running a deficit by 2020? of course, i would be concerned to know and to tell those who elected me whether the monetary policy impact study can be transmitted in a transparent way, so that we can know and inform the citizens, because we are talking about countries in the euro area and countries that are not yet in the euro area. i look forward to your answer.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i very much appreciate your activity here in parliament. concerning this important issue, and especially the testing of emissions on animals and human beings, do you not think that it is now time that we should promote, within the european union, legislation on research ethics for such conditions?
in writing. – the debate on the regulation addressing geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination based on nationality is timely and vital for our citizens. by seeking to effectively implement the single market, not only for goods, but also for services, digital commerce, capital and energy, we would create 4 million new jobs for our citizens, while adding approximately 1.5 billion to the eu economy. even though this is a step in the right direction, the proposal at hand is yet imperfect, given that it does not address all forms of discrimination, particularly copyrighted content. this includes transmissions of films, television, music or e-books. i see a link here to the truly worrying situation of almost 50 million people, those citizens belonging to ethnic and linguistic minorities across europe, who continue to be affected by such discriminatory practices. it is exactly these citizens who have come together and signed the minority safepack initiative, aiming to address such key deficiencies and tackle discrimination based on ethnicity. the geo-blocking of copyrighted content is an important factor here, and it is the obligation of the ep to also hear the voice of citizens belonging to minorities and address this shortcoming in the revision of this regulation.
in writing. accelerating the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy is both an urgent need and a tremendous opportunity for europe, and innovation is key. the own-initiative report 'accelerating clean energy innovation' calls for an energy innovation policy that is consistent with the paris agreement and the eu's energy and climate change objectives. as the objective of the commission communication is to establish a strategy for the policy levers that the eu can deploy to stimulate private investment in clean energy innovation, this report invites the commission to consider the energy dimension as a horizontal part of the eu industrial policy and to introduce energy efficiency as a horizontal, cross-cutting priority, applied to all business sectors. stimulating energy innovation is possible by centring the energy system on the user, by considering social aspects relevant to energy innovation, by cooperation of all parties involved in this process and by a substantial increase in financial resources for the development and adoption of innovative clean energy solutions.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing within the european union and globally is a major political priority for all the eu institutions. this parliament, in particular, has fought hard to ensure that our rules against money laundering set a gold standard for the world, most recently in december when we reached agreement on the latest upgrade of the anti-money-laundering directive. the list of high-risk third countries plays an important role in the eu’s framework and in protecting the eu financial system against the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. as regards tunisia, the situation is clear. tunisia still shows strategic deficiencies in this field, which today justify its inclusion on the eu list of high-risk third countries. the commission welcomes and supports tunisia’s efforts to remedy the situation. an action plan was agreed between tunisia and the financial action task force in december. the commission strongly welcomes the fact that tunisia is now accelerating the implementation of those agreed actions. we are in close contact and have regular meetings with the tunisian authorities in this regard, but there is still work to be done, notably as regards regulation and supervision of the non-financial sector, transparency of beneficial ownership and targeted financial sanctions. we count on tunisia to remove those deficiencies swiftly, on the basis of the action plan agreed with the financial action task force, and the commission stands ready to provide support. the commission exchanged views on this issue in a joint meeting of the economic and monetary affairs (econ) and civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committees last week, and the commission made a formal declaration, describing the situation as i have just done and making a commitment to support tunisia in this process. today, i would like to reaffirm that tunisia is a privileged partner for the european union, and we commit to reassessing tunisia’s progress as soon as possible during this year of 2018, with the aim of tunisia being de-listed both by the financial action task force and by the eu. however, we are not there yet. there is still work to be done by tunisia, and until then we have to fulfil our responsibility to protect the european union and its financial system against the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. i would like to thank the econ and libe committees for supporting this view last week, and i call on this plenary likewise to assume its responsibility.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i am a little embarrassed because my group has already discussed this matter a few hours ago and unfortunately we have not been able to reach a decision. we finally decided that each of us would vote according to his conscience tomorrow. the vote will be free. i am a little sad because i see that we are only talking about tunisia. of course, we have many reasons to discuss tunisia, but we also forget another country that is on this list, sri lanka. i would also remind you that just as we support the democratic process in tunisia, we also support the important and recent political changes in sri lanka. we helped this country to get gsp+ and now we were forgetting about it a bit. so i am very close to the tunisians and the sri lankans, mainly because i believe we have to be consistent. we have sent a lot of messages of support in recent years, we have given money to these countries, and now we see them on this list of high-risk countries, for politicians and, more than for politicians, for companies in tunisia and sri lanka. it's incomprehensible to me! no one understands what the european union is doing anymore. if we tell these people that we want to help them and that they are our partners, but if we put them on a blacklist ourselves, they will not understand anything.
madam president, equal opportunities are not just about getting a job, but about equal and real opportunities for higher education, so that women's access to decision-making positions is a guarantee. there is still a skills gap, which puts women out of the running for leadership. we want the european institutions to create effective mechanisms that provide real career opportunities for women and ensure their access to top management positions in the public and private sectors. at european and global level, women in high-level positions of responsibility, such as prime minister or head of state, are still quite rare. on the one hand, we have countries like finland, which has had both a female president and a female prime minister, but on the other hand, today there are still 13 member states of the european union where a woman has never held such a position. romania recently set an example of good practice by installing former mep viorica dancila as prime minister. in the romanian government, 8 ministerial portfolios are held by women.
madam president, recently, at the level of the european commission, signs have started to appear of the introduction of additional criteria for the allocation of development funds to the member states. we are talking about political, subjective and hard to quantify criteria that can serve as a pretext for reducing funds for member states. i know the efforts romania is making to ensure the best possible life for its citizens and i know how much these efforts depend on cohesion funds. i would like to see any decision discussed at the level of the european council and the european commission taking account, first and foremost, of the development needs of the member states. the stronger their economies, the stronger the european union. i also hope that the european parliament, the forum representing the citizens of the member states, will act in such a way that the principle of solidarity, on which the union is based, and nothing else, is the basis for all its decisions.
madam president, according to all the analyses and statistics, in the last 3 years, there has been a worrying increase in the cases of hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c. 2017 was a record year for the virus infection of the three diseases, rightly considered the most aggressive. in hiv alone, according to the office of hiv-aids case surveillance, in 2017, there was a 5.9% increase per thousand inhabitants of those infected. in this context, i believe that we must raise the alarm to urgently review the health policies of the european union and we must urge the eu commissioner for health to urgently implement the recommendations of the european parliament resolution of july 2017. without a generalised programme, applicable at the level of all member states, and without subsidising testing and treatment for disadvantaged groups, it will probably be impossible to control the spread of these diseases in a few years. it is unacceptable that in the european union, considered the most important political construction of the old continent, we should be discussing today the alarming increase in cases of tuberculosis, hiv and hepatitis c.
prime minister ofcroatia. – mr president, thank you very much for a series of questions on defence. yes, croatia wants the european union to go in the direction of strengthening defence cooperation. if there is one area since 1993-99 that has evolved rapidly, it is certainly that one and, as i already said at the beginning, our commitment is strong and it is clear. the way we are building our own capabilities is in the direction that we are not there in a declaratory manner but in an operational manner. so from that point of view, a plus. when it comes to the schengen entry-exit system, you know that we got the envelope when we were negotiating our accession of eur 120 million to increase the capacities of the croatian police, of the croatian border system to surveil our borders and it is perhaps the best absorption of all the funds that we have. we have so far, at the level of contractual arrangements, about 50% above the total allocation for croatia, which is just over eur 10.3 billion. we have more or less contracted eur 5.2 billion. when it comes to schengen we have actually absorbed 98%. given the migratory refugee crisis a few years ago we were the country that today looks at this issue in a way that our focus should be on protecting the external borders of the european union, on preventing further migratory flows at the source of the crisis – failing states, wars, conflicts, poverty and other reasons why people are looking towards europe from the continents which are around us. the entry-exit system, yes. preparation for schengen, whether it is formally within the mandate of this parliament, i would be very happy if we could achieve that. we will try to do the maximum but you know it is a decision both of the council and needing the support of the european parliament. we didn’t opt for barbed wire on our borders but we are protecting our borders with our forces and strengthening our capacities if and where there is a need. when it comes to the issue of minorities, which was mentioned earlier by one of the colleagues, perhaps you don’t know, but the croatian parliament has a fixed quota for eight members of parliament from minorities – three from the serbian minority, and today we also have representatives of an italian minority. we have a representative of the hungarians, of the czechs, and of the roma as well, which is very important because this was mentioned in one of the debates earlier where there was an insinuation that we do not protect the roma minority enough. on the contrary, we have a special operational programme for minorities where we have invested a lot and one albanian minority lady representative. why am i saying this? all eight of those minorities are members of my parliamentary majority, which i personally wanted to be like that because i feel that the minorities in any european country, and especially in croatia with all the historical legacies that we have, can better cater for their needs, their priorities and their position in our society if they are within the majority and influencing the policies of our country. that is why this is a very dear subject for me from a principle point of view, with all the european values always in mind. when it comes to the three questions of my colleague nino jakovčić: on subsidiarity, absolutely yes. you are aware that my ambition is to involve – first of all when it comes to the european national level and the multi-layered governance – the croatian parliament more than before. that is why i am there every single time after i come back from the european council. i spend hours trying to promote the substance of the european dossiers to the croatian mps and to the croatian public. no one has ever thought of doing this before and not even deliberated it. this is an idea that i want, where the national parliaments have a role to play in our legislative pipeline, more than today. second, on uljanik and on the shipping industry and the shipyards in croatia. in our accession process if there was one critical issue on the agenda it was in chapter 8, it was competition, state aid, how to help the shipyards in distress. it actually cost a lot of money in the croatian budget. some of them are stable, restructured and ordering new ships. some of them occasionally have difficulties in the market which has globally completely altered to what it was before. you know it and i know it. the decision on uljanik was a political choice, as we were convinced that this shipyard in pula – which is also the co-owner of a shipyard in rijeka, the 3. maj, and which employs together more than 5 000 people – has the potential to find a strategic partner, restructure and have long-term viability of production. this is why we believed it was a good choice, and that is why we explained to the european commission to give us a go-ahead in this decision. on the visit of president vučić, i don’t see that much mystification as is flowing around in the media. i see president vučić almost every two months in various international fora. there are items on the agenda which should be addressed – the question of missing persons, border issues, war damages if you like, the laws which serbia has passed in order to increase its jurisdiction when it comes to the prosecution of war crimes beyond its own territories... we have debated this in this house. i don’t want to enter into that. but there is goodwill on the croatian side to sit down and try to understand how we can surmount the obstacles. this is the object. the normalisation agreement between the two countries dates from 1996. there are always political connotations when different personalities are involved, and this visit therefore has an extra careful element in the whole process of its preparation. on the arbitration and slovenia, dear colleague šoltes, you can present it the way you said: yes, everything was perfect, a textbook case, fantastic behaviour, never better, and we should definitely try to copy the process for all the other open border issues. i, unfortunately, cannot agree with that, and you know it. i am even hesitating to be as explicit as i perhaps should in this forum, but i will repeat to you again, let’s refrain from unilateral action. let’s find a way for both slovenia and croatia to find a commonly acceptable fair and reasonable solution to the border issue. in my view it is an overblown topic both politically and in the media. nothing dramatic has happened to any of our citizens. but that will happen if one of the countries chooses the path of unilateral actions and fines. this is something i really regret and it was not the choice of my country. the goodwill is there. i know that the prime minister cerar and the entire slovenian government have taken some positions – there are elections very soon in slovenia – but despite that, we are open for dialogue and also, if you like, some good ideas from our friends that might help us in that direction.
mr president, mr prime minister. mr. prime minister i expect you to listen and say what i say in my seconds, please very much. i appreciate what you said and the vision you presented is consistent with my vision as well, but you hesitated to say whether the current state of the nation is consistent with your vision. i am from romania, we have been members for 10 years, you have used key words here - subsidiarity, acting in the interests of the citizens, the schengen area. i want to ask you... and yet you may listen to me... (president interrupts speaker) i have not finished mr. president, because mr. prime minister does not want to listen to my speech. so, i ask you, mr. prime minister, do you think the current state of the nation corresponds to what you have presented as your vision? we are talking about subsidiarity, about acting in the interests of the citizens, about the schengen area, about the fact that we have a budget for the euro area and a budget for the non-euro area. do we have one europe or not? what is your view on the fact that there are stigmatised countries, such as romania and bulgaria, which meet the conditions of the schengen area and are not approved in the council? what do you think about the fact that there's only two states for a cvm? what unity are we talking about and what should we tell the citizens, because you used the terms 'to explain to the citizens the advantages of the european union' here? i'd like you to answer me in your speech.
mr president, prime minister, croatia and my country, romania, have an important role to play to engage more with our neighbours, bearing in mind that providing a clear european perspective to all the western balkan countries would act as a catalyst to accelerate the pace of reforms. at the same time, we have to continue to support the countries of the eastern partnership, especially the three countries associated with the european union – the republic of moldova, ukraine and georgia – to come closer to the european union. please, prime minister, do not lose this window of opportunity to overcome old painful grievances that still exist in the balkans. we should give a clear perspective to south-eastern europe for development, peace, and of course taking more care of their citizens within the european union.
madam president, please. while we appreciate the european commission's efforts to create a single copyright market, the current regulation amendment is not enough for the 50 million citizens of national or linguistic minorities in the european union. the audiovisual media services directive should also be adapted to the needs of citizens, and the free acquisition of media content should not be hampered by commercial agreements which do not take into account the linguistic and cultural diversity of each member state. it is an offence to citizens when a provider restricts access to a media service, or, where appropriate, a sports broadcast, which they have purchased, by invoking a contractual obligation to use geocoding. the fact that the mother tongue of millions of union citizens is not the same as the official language of their country should not deprive them of the opportunity to follow an international sporting event in the language of their choice, if they already have a subscription to the broadcaster in question.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, 6 february is the international day for zero tolerance of female genital mutilation. i think this is an important day, where all women in the european union want to raise awareness among citizens, regardless of age or social category, about the violation of human rights in these situations, which seriously endanger the life and dignity of women. a better understanding of the phenomenon will help prevent and combat it. the statistics are worrying. at least 200 million girls alive today in 30 countries have suffered female genital mutilation. i believe that there are not enough data at union level to show the scale and nature of this phenomenon, especially as most women do not report such cases and do not feel encouraged to do so. it's also why the official criminal justice system data records few cases that are reported. we must also not forget that the authorities have often considered ngos to be... (the speaker was interrupted by the president).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is not by chance that we are discussing today the strategy on the enlargement towards the western balkans during the bulgarian presidency. it is certain that enlargement towards the balkans will remain a priority of the union in 2018 and equally in 2019 during the romanian presidency. while looking to the future, i can only start by stating the obvious, and the most important thing, namely that our union is not completed nor safe or stable without the western balkans. this region is key for the stability and the security of our union and for its citizens. and the integration of the western balkans into europe is in the interests of both sides. this is why the s&d group has always been the first promoter of enlargement as one of the most successful eu policies. today we are facing common challenges in the region which include migration, radicalisation, the rise of nationalism, tensions and terrorism. it is important not to lose momentum and come together with a common answer to the very many problems. we are the only reliable and credible partner in the region for the region. this strategy is a step in the right direction, but we need to do more than talk, and this has to be reflected in the future multiannual financial framework. what we need today is more eu initiatives, programmes and investment in the region. considering the rising inequalities in the region, it is necessary to focus on the real social policies and programmes to tackle the problems of growing gaps. the balkans were playing with history and nationalism. this is exactly where our union should play an important role in fostering more regional cooperation, cohesion and dialogue. i will conclude by saying that we will be judged by history if this day turns a historical page for our western balkans.
mr president, madam high representative, commissioner, the new enlargement strategy is an opportunity to reaffirm our strong commitment to the region and to finally offer a credible enlargement perspective for the western balkans. a credible perspective for me means giving clear time-frames and dates for all the countries in the region and not just for two. there is a whole generation who have known nothing but the expectation of joining europe, a europe to which they belong historically and culturally. this lack of clear prospects leads young people to leave their countries. this is clearly seen in bosnia-herzegovina, for which i am the rapporteur. the countries of the region must therefore be given hope for their european future. it is a necessary step to encourage the transformation of these countries and a lasting reconciliation. the six-point action plan, which is attached to the strategy, could prove useful. at the same time, as commissioner hahn said recently in sarajevo, there can be no free lunch. the adoption of these strategies was to be a moment of responsibility for the authorities of the countries of the region. progress towards europe will depend on their seriousness in reforms, especially in fundamental rights, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. these key areas must be firmly placed at the top of our priorities for enlargement. as i have said every time i have met with political representatives of these countries, these are the real priorities.
mr president, the western balkan countries are a part of europe and show clear intentions to become part of the union. by achieving european integration, the four candidate countries and the two aspirant countries will achieve peace and stability. the union has brought respect and successful collaboration between former long—time rivals, and i congratulate the commission for the new strategy with concrete actions like this six flagship initiatives. conflicts, violence and war and corruption need to be replaced by tolerance, strong democracies and proactive dialogue. european integration, as a common goal, can be a fundament of political consensus among all the actors in the region. one of the good examples of this is the agreement on good neighbourly relations signed by bulgaria and fyrom after a long period of pressures and diplomatic tensions. i would like to remind our balkan friends that we need reliable partners who share our values, especially in the context of current global challenges and the ones that are going to arise.
mr president the key to eu stability is to accelerate the integration of the western balkans, and the eu cannot afford not to talk about enlargement. in recent years, the commission has followed this path, and the result has been a decline in interest in accession in the countries of the region. in parallel, other global and regional political actors have become highly active in the region, offering development prospects to the western balkan states. although there are those in europe who would stop further enlargement, it must be recognised that eu integration cannot be complete without the western balkans. we must also accept the idea that ethnic conflicts in the region will become an issue within the eu, and it is utopian to think that these nations will forget all their historical grievances after joining. the solution is therefore to develop an eu minority protection system that prepares for this situation, rather than hoping that ethnic tensions will disappear after accession.
in writing. – i welcome the reinforced enlargement strategy entitled ‘credible perspective of enlargement to the western balkans’, which is in line with president juncker’s announcement during the 2017 state of the union address and reaffirms the european perspective for all western balkans countries, by recognising the efforts of the frontrunners, serbia and montenegro. being recognised too by the bulgarian presidency of the council of the eu as a main priority, further integration of western balkans countries will, i am certain, improve the stability of europe as a whole. accordingly, we need to encourage reforms, reconciliation, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. indeed, the economic convergence of the western balkans may be a long-term process, taking into account the problems, such as high unemployment, low productivity and weak competitiveness, that some of these countries face. as a final remark, i would like to underline that ensuring a clear european perspective for these countries would stimulate the acceleration of reforms while also increasing youth opportunities for education and work and offering young people clear prospects for their future.
in writing. the countries of the western balkans should be in the european union! they have had a troubled history, but they have a culture and traditions that have their place in europe. important politicians say that if the western balkans had not existed, western europe would have had to invent them. it is clear that the western balkan states can contribute to diversity, increasing the consistency and strength of the european union. i believe that the 2025 horizon is realistic if we, the european union, also provide technical assistance on the knowledge of european values. just as the family with many children is responsible for teaching each child to respect family values, so the european union should help the balkan states and their citizens to understand european values.
in writing. the european commission's initiative to present a strategy for the western balkans, which reopens the option of these countries joining the eu as they meet the accession criteria, is welcome. i regret, however, that the same european commission refuses to prepare a strategy for the republic of moldova. i believe that the republic of moldova should also be supported by the same instruments proposed for the western balkan countries to meet the eu accession criteria.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by saying that this is not the first, and will not be the last, debate in this chamber about turkey. we are holding this debate, i believe, because we care. we care about turkey, we care about the turkish people, we care about turkey’s democracy, security and stability, and we care about security and stability in the turkish region because it is also our region. sometimes we refer to turkey only as a candidate country. let me stress one thing that is obvious: it is first and foremost, through my lens, a regional player that shares the same geographic space with us. we have disagreements and we are extremely clear on them. we have what can probably be termed a frank dialogue and, let me say this very clearly: our dialogue with turkey is today more important than ever. the negative trend of the human rights situation in the country has not been reversed. there have been some small steps in certain human rights cases, but violations have continued, affecting prominent civil society figures, users of social media, medical staff, and the list could continue. this is on top of the initial violations we have seen in recent years, which have not been resolved. last friday, commissioner hahn and i issued a statement focusing in particular on the unprecedented decision by the turkish authorities to contradict a ruling by the constitutional court. this decision goes against the turkish constitution and it casts serious doubt on the independence of turkey’s justice system. the ongoing state of emergency also remains a key issue of concern. we all know that it was established in one of the most difficult moments in turkish history, we remember those hours very well, in which we expressed our concern, our proximity with the people and the leadership of turkey after the attempted coup d’état. yet, one-and-a-half years later, the state of emergency has allowed measures that go well beyond those initially foreseen, and this has to be clearly stated. in parallel, it is true, there has been some work to normalise bilateral relations between turkey and the eu member states, and this is good news but i want to be very clear: human rights and fundamental freedoms should apply to all turkish citizens, to all of them in the same way. in our partnership with turkey, as i said, we have always been open and frank. we know that turkey has faced, and is facing, incredible challenges and we have to acknowledge this: terrorist attacks on its soil, an attempted coup, a difficult refugee crisis and a war just next door. we understand turkey’s concerns, for instance, about the situation at its borders. turkey has the full right, and i would even say the duty, to provide safety and security to turkish citizens living near the border with syria, yet we are deeply worried about the new front that has been opened in northern syria. we are worried, first of all, for humanitarian reasons. the new clashes have already resulted in civilian casualties and thousands have been displaced. humanitarian access must be guaranteed to all those in need. the united nations is warning that the humanitarian situation right across syria is definitely not improving, and the people of syria cannot afford a new front and a new crisis, adding to the other ones still ongoing in the country. beyond the humanitarian tragedy, the afrin offensive could have political consequences on the internal balances inside the future syria, on the region at large and on the potential for political negotiations, because the new escalation of violence could push further away the chances of a political solution to the conflict. we need – all of us – to concentrate all our energies on supporting the un-led negotiations in geneva. that is where any concerns should be raised and addressed. the war in syria is not over yet. people are still dying even if it is not headline news. that is happening in afrin as well as in idlib and elsewhere. opening new fronts is no solution and i am afraid it will not make turkey more secure. real security can come only from a negotiated political solution to the conflict. we believe that all military action should focus on un-listed terrorist organisations, not others; and it should not make peace harder to achieve. let me also reiterate that the european union remains committed to the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of syria. we have to be extremely careful about the moves we make today, in order to avoid consequences for the future set-up in the country. peace in syria will require everyone’s contribution and turkey, as one of the guarantors of the astana process, has an essential role to play, as well as special responsibility. the agreement reached through the astana process on the escalation zones needs to be pursued and implemented, including in northern syria. we are working, together with the united nations and all the international community, to make sure that our second brussels conference on the future of syria and the region, which we will host next spring, supports the un-led process in an effective and, indeed, a decisive manner, in particular with regard to the prospects for the future, and the need to make sure that each and every syrian citizen will find in syria his or her own home, his or her own country, with a system and a prospect of inclusion, and recognition of diversity and the diverse composition of the country and society. that is the only way out of the conflict in a sustainable manner. let me finish by saying that, as you probably know, president erdoğan was in rome yesterday, where he met pope francis. during the meeting – and i quote from the text supplied by the holy see – ‘the pope stressed the need to promote peace and reconciliation through dialogue and negotiation, with respect for human rights and international law’. i believe that we can all share the words of pope francis on this occasion. for our part, we will continue our dialogue with turkey, as we do every single week and, indeed, on a daily basis. we will keep all channels of communication open, working to overcome our differences, working to manage our differences when they remain, and working to find common solutions. we do this for ourselves, we do it for the turkish people, and we do it for peace, security and democracy in our common region, starting with syria.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my deep concern about the human rights situation in turkey. last week, with other colleagues, i had the opportunity to meet with turkish academics and civil society organisations. the situation they describe, as we know, is still very serious. since june 2016, thousands of people, including government employees, military, judges, journalists, teachers, civil society activists and academics have been subjected to indictment, harassment, pressure and imprisonment for imaginary crimes, which only serve to centralize power in the hands of the current authorities. this is why we must put human rights at the heart of all discussions with the turkish authorities, including at the next eu-turkey summit. moreover - and i have actively supported this position in this parliament - we must redirect the funds earmarked for turkey's accession towards civil society, towards those who are committed to preserving freedoms. it is all the more urgent because i do not think it is possible to continue to talk about accession. i have long been a strong supporter of enlargement to turkey. today, in view of recent developments, i believe that a closer partnership is the way forward in the coming years. the issue of human rights should of course be on the agenda. in this partnership we need to address issues of common interest, such as the western balkans. discussion about our actions in this region should be open and frank, so that it can benefit the citizens of these countries and not be subject to hidden objectives. this is also true of the syrian issue, because there is a real danger that the current turkish offensive will jeopardise the small chances of building peace that are now emerging.
madam president, i will focus today on the situation in afrin, as i trust that the resolution on which we will vote on thursday, and the introduction made by our colleague kati piri, have given us a clear picture of the grave violations of human rights in turkey and a comprehensive and accurate picture of the situation on the ground. it is the legitimate right of turkey to ensure the security of its border. as the turkish military operation in afrin is unfolding, civilian casualty numbers – including women and children – are rising and the humanitarian situation is worsening day by day. refugees and residents in the afrin district of syria are trapped once again between warring parties on the border, without any protection and any proper medical supplies or services. they are suffering daily attacks. these are people who have already fled their homes and suffered heavily from the longstanding syrian war. the legitimate right of turkey to ensure the security of its borders cannot be, and should not be, accepted as an excuse for the escalation and continuation of a military operation that seems to be much wider than initially announced. furthermore, the ypg (people’s protection unit) made a great contribution in the fight against daesh. this is something we, including the commission, already know, and portraying all its fighters as terrorists is more than just an oversimplification. the military operation against the kurdish majority enclave of afrin risks jeopardising the peace talks in geneva, which remain the only possible way forward for a sustainable and lasting peace in syria. thus, we urge turkey to ensure the cessation of hostilities and to devote its efforts to bringing back peace to syria, as i trust this is in its own interests. finally, we call for an immediate halt to any indiscriminate targeting of civilians and we urge all parties to strictly respect humanitarian law and to guarantee full access to humanitarian aid in the belligerent areas.
madam president, we are again talking about turkey, which means that nothing has changed and things are getting worse, so we have to adopt a different style. apart from the debates we simply have to go to the sanctions. recent history has shown us that there are states, like turkey, for example, with the dictatorship of erdogan, or like the russian federation, with the dictatorship of putin, that don't even care about sanctions. we can have discussions, they are good, but we need much, much stronger sanctions, because otherwise we cannot talk to these countries. there are times and countries where diplomacy doesn't work and they don't care about diplomacy. erdogan is one of those people. we have over 5,000 judges fired, 2,500 in prison, including members of the constitutional court. turkey has the highest number of journalists in the world being arrested, so it's number one in the world. many turkish citizens in europe are arrested in turkey by the erdogan regime and then arrest warrants are sent for their extradition. this happened, for example, with turkish citizens who were in albania. fortunately, the albanian courts did not extradite them. a university professor, what danger was the university professor to turkey, to issue an arrest warrant and want to send him to prison in turkey? so, the sanctions!
madam president, the human rights situation in turkey is very critical. abuses of human rights include the imprisonment of journalists and abuses of the human rights of ethnic minorities, especially kurds. the ongoing turkish state of emergency gave the pretext to imprison political opponents, businessmen and also human rights defenders and journalists. furthermore, the lawyers of these human rights defenders are facing, on a daily basis, great barriers to performing their work and are at continuous risk of detention and prosecution. this situation is evidence of a well—developed pattern of silencing people whose work lawfully calls into question the policies of the turkish government. as representatives of european fundamental rights, we need to unify and strengthen our voices in order to urge the turkish government to stop these abuses against human rights.
mr president, everyone knows that europe needs to be reformed, but we are talking about something else here, not about how to reform it. instead, we're concerned with sharing the spoils after brexit. with all due respect, we are in a situation that in romania would be characterised as 'putting the cart before the horse'. so the first criticism i want to make is that this is about reversing priorities. so i don't think the uk's seats should be filled before we decide the future of the european union. it's simpler, cheaper and more honest to our citizens. second, the afco proposal is very similar to the apple offered to eve by the biblical serpent. combining redistribution of seats with so-called transnational lists may seduce under-represented member states, but it is in reality a manoeuvre that seriously undermines democracy and citizens' representation.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, after months of tough and complicated negotiations in the committee on constitutional affairs, we are now in the european parliament for the final vote. congratulations to the other rapporteurs! ladies and gentlemen, with the uk leaving the european union, it has become a priority for us to find a fair and representative redistribution of mandates for a european union of 27 member states. so the proposal put to the vote today is a pragmatic compromise, a compromise that can compensate for the imbalances in the current voting system, where 14 countries are underrepresented. speaking now as a romanian mep, i think it is natural that romania should receive an extra mandate. as one of the most important countries in the eastern european region, romania deserves a representation relative to its status as the sixth most important country demographically in the european union after the exit of the united kingdom. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. ladies and gentlemen, if we want this legislature to be remembered for its achievements and successes, then we must give european citizens a viable solution that will also bring legal certainty to the conduct of elections. i therefore urge all national delegations to support this new formula for the redistribution of seats with a positive vote, in order to avoid possible deadlocks or ad hoc solutions before the 2019 elections. we will have a european parliament of 705 members, based on the principle that no country will lose any mandate, but also on the principle that some reparations must be made for states that did not have a representation directly proportional to their size and importance. yes, mr. president, i have two minutes. let us not forget, however, that this report is about the composition of the european parliament and not exclusively about transnational lists, and i regret that the debate has been taken up by this subject. so, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to go home and direct your governments to make the right decision at the negotiating table which will take place later at the level of the council of the european union.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleagues hübner and silva pereira on their report. we can see that the composition of the european parliament is a somewhat delicate operation, especially as we are faced with the unfortunate withdrawal of the united kingdom, which also poses a constitutional problem. i would first like to welcome the fact that the redistribution of part of the uk mandates will take into account what i have asked for in amendments in the committee on constitutional affairs, namely to take into account the member states that lost mandates in 2014. i am glad to see that, in accordance with this report, my country, romania, will return to 33 seats. secondly, unlike some of my colleagues, i am in favour of transnational lists. i think that makes sense of european citizenship. the parties that exist today are not really european parties. we can have real european parties if we have lists which are not just made up of candidates from one member state. in a parliament, parties exist before elections. in our country, the idea has been fabricated - as in the beginning of politics in the 19th century - that parties exist only at the level of parliamentary groups. let us go beyond this threshold, let us do what national politics did for europe in the 19th century, that is the meaning of our commitments.
blue-card question. – the european parliament is probably the most important democratic institution of the european union. don’t you think that, through these elections, we ought to send the important message that we need more cohesion inside the european union? then we could make the switch to transnational lists. we can see currently that the eurozone represents a hard core of the european union, while there are still countries that are not members of the eurozone, not members of schengen, and so on and so forth. don’t you think that we ought to wait a bit for more cohesion, and then move on to the next step?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it was a very complicated report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the balance they have achieved, but i cannot help mentioning two things. the allocation thing: we wish there was no brexit and we didn't have the opportunity to allocate. it is difficult to explain that the principle of degressive proportionality has been fully respected, when we remember that countries like greece, the czech republic did not receive any and other countries of similar size received three. but there has been a lot of talk about transnational lists, although the rapporteurs here say very explicitly that we don't have a legal basis yet. i think we need to go back to our homes, to talk in our national parliaments, to talk to our citizens, because, yes, it's a good vision, maybe, of the future, but are the citizens prepared? and i have one more question for the rapporteur, which i will answer when they come to their conclusion: will there be two categories of meps? because i now know that i represent all european citizens, not just those in my own country. will we have first-class and second-class meps?
madam president, yes, i agree to give more seats to under-represented countries. i agree on degressive proportionality. at the same time, we should have to take into consideration the number of citizens of each and every country: citizens some of whom – in the case of romania about three million – live in other european union countries. i believe that the proposal to create transnational lists aims to define european direct representation while respecting the degressive principal, as required by article 14 of the treaty. but we are not yet ready for this. i agree that we can apply the system starting in 2024 but not in 2019. at the same time i would ask all of you: what are we going to do about the extremist parties, the political parties in europe that are against the european union? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i want to say at the outset that i support the report. it seems to me that we would be doing a job of going backwards if, after having had elections in 2014 with a head of list, we now come to confuse european citizens, to come with another method. i think we need to consolidate this method on the one hand, and on the other hand, we need to come up with very clear messages to our citizens. what is the ratio between the three institutions: commission, parliament, council? the commission is the council. from my point of view, i think the council is a blocker, even though they're not elected members. because there are governments there in the council and very often we, the parliament, which is the most representative institution, have problems in the council with what we decide here and i think there is more work to be done here. i am glad that the commission is reminded that it has that three-year period of incompatibility after they are no longer members of the commission. of course the dilemma remains: what will the commissioner who is still in office do and will run? on the other hand, we cannot let him resign and have a six-month gap until the new commission is in place. so i will vote for this report and support it in the plenary.
madam president, most supporters of the transnational list argue that with its introduction, elections would be more european. also, many hope that it would favour more integration as opposed to the system we have in place now. i would argue to the contrary. being european is the sum of our national and subnational regional identities. our european-ness is what unites us in our differences; imposing from the top a transnational list instead of making our citizens more european might, on the contrary, drive a wedge between electorates and the people supposed to represent them in the eu. all politics are local, and there is a good reason why. people need to feel that their particular problems are well understood and conveyed. also, there is no contradiction between favouring national lists and favouring more integration. integration is stronger if it is rooted in the local, and if it is a natural, bottom-up construction. lastly, i strongly believe that most anti-eu populists feed from local dissatisfactions rather than discontent with the eu as such. this is why the best place to fight is there where it occurs, by those representatives who know their electorate best.
madam president, the worrying long-term increase in inequality, both in times of growth as well as during recession, should indeed worry us. it is the least well-off who suffer most of the consequences of inequality. however, the phenomenon has already started to bite into the fortunes and social mobility of the middle class, too. more and more working families are struggling to make ends meet. besides its impact on the individual and on social cohesion in general, income inequality raises other concerns as well: it undermines the good functioning of the economy, slows productivity and growth, and hampers innovation. the whole society suffers if we do not have a healthy, well-skilled and well-educated workforce. in my country, the richest 20% of the population have an income over eight times higher than that of the poorest 20%. this is the result not just of unequal access to education, services and the labour market, but also of the toleration of undeclared work and an ineffective tax and social transfer system, as the commission has underlined in its country specific recommendations. this is why it is so urgent that we search for effective means to reduce inequality. the solution can only lie in a coordinated and wide enough use of policy instruments, such as development of fair and effective taxation systems, creation of good jobs, and investment in quality early education that is accessible to all, as well as in continuous skill-development enabling upward mobility.
in writing. – the consequences of socio-economic inequalities for european citizens are serious as they are diverse. they generate significant economic and social costs in terms of low demand, which in turn diminish growth, but they also stoke the fire of populist discourse. figures show that almost one person in four experiences poverty or social exclusion, with an even more worrying percentage for young people, and inequalities are only getting bigger, even if we have theoretically put the economic crisis behind us. this situation is unacceptable for the 21st century europe and requires immediate action, reasons for which i welcome the debate initiated by the s&d group. we need a new approach for equitable and sustainable well-being - in all member states - and the european pillar for social rights or the youth guarantee are great examples of how we can bring real change. my view is that we need to put extra effort into helping young generations, particularly as regard training and acquiring skills. as lack of education is responsible for the passing of poverty between generations, i support creating more programmes focused on education and professional qualifications, including for the tourism sector, one of the engines of eu economic growth.
in writing. we live in a european union where socioeconomic inequalities between citizens are easily observed. you don't have to be an expert in economics, culture or politics to perceive the well-being of a country's citizens. we know that danish citizens are the happiest, or that in finland we will find the best performing education system. the happiness, education, culture and economic well-being of a country's citizens are the benchmarks that we can always look to to identify the socioeconomic conditions that a country offers its people. we live in a european union and we should all have a common goal: to be equally happy, to have our children have access to high-quality education systems and to have the same standard of living as citizens of the most developed european countries. when we talk about the consequences of socioeconomic inequality among european citizens, we are not just talking about the existence of distinct categories of people in the eu, unemployment, mass labour migration, depopulation or ageing of some areas and overcrowding in others, but also about the lack of access to a high-performing education system and the uncertainty of the future for many european citizens.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i am not sure if you agree with the transnational lists or not. is it feasible that, in the 2019 elections, we switch to this electoral system, if the citizens are ready and if you think it's good that we have two floors in parliament? that is, a floor of transnationally elected meps and others elected at national level: how will this work?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and honourable members of the council, the 2019 european elections are fast approaching. in the meantime, two years have passed since the european parliament referred the need for amendments to the electoral law to the council. today we are raising this question again because parliament is really concerned with the way in which the european elections are conducted, this institution being the most important expression of democracy. the current legislative framework needs to be modernised and improved in line with the realities at european level. we want to introduce electronic and postal voting in all member states. another example would be the drawing up of electoral lists taking into account the principles of gender equality, which would ensure a better representation of the female electorate. we want to come up with proposals for an inclusive and progressive electoral system that allows all european citizens to participate in the vote. i have a reserved position on transnational lists. the question is: how do we ensure that the introduction of such an instrument does not reduce the fair representation of all citizens, regardless of nationality, and that smaller states are not under-represented? in conclusion, our priority at this time is to assure the citizens that we are preparing responsibly for the next election and not launching fireworks to guarantee someone's place on the lists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, first i would like to underline my consent on the urgency given to the electoral law reform in order to make the future 2019 elections more transparent, democratic and truly european, especially considering that in some member states, modifications to electoral law have to enter into force 12 months before the elections. i recognise that there are some shortcomings of the electoral act of 1976, and therefore i support the measures proposed in the reform, which are meant to strengthen the european dimension of the elections, providing also better electoral equality for our citizens and improve their voting turnout. i would like to draw your attention to one aspect, which is very important in my opinion: that the measures refer also to eu legitimacy and democratic quality and they come ahead of an increasing demand from our citizens for an adequate post-brexit political, democratic representation.
i have a procedural matter i'd like to bring to your attention. today's debate is being held in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. under these rules it is very clear that those who are members of the council may participate in the debate we are having today on behalf of the council. a decision was made that seemed strange. mr president tajani was misled because he was not made aware of the law in romania. according to romanian law and the constitution of romania, the one who is present at the council's work is the president of romania, who, of course, could not be here today, and in his absence, the minister of justice participates in the council's work, as is the case with the justice issue. the romanian minister for justice is in the chamber today and i think that, in order to have a debate in which the necessary arguments can be put forward, mr tudorel toader, the minister for justice and a member of the venice commission, should be given the opportunity to at least answer the questions. this would also give a note, which we all want, of seriousness, of discussing arguments that bring light to all the issues that will be clarified today in the plenary and, at the same time, the temple of democracy for all romanians would show that it is the european parliament and that the presence of the minister of justice, who can give the necessary explanations, is something that we all respect and that all romanians, i guarantee, will appreciate as such. so please, mr president, look at article 123 (2) and i respectfully ask you to try to give the romanian minister of justice the opportunity to at least answer the questions that are asked or to provide the necessary clarifications.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an open channel of communication with the romanian government will always be the most appropriate method of clarifying the steps and procedures behind a sensitive legislative initiative, while fully respecting the rights and obligations of the member states. that's why i'm reading the first two articles of the constitution of romania. article 1: romania is a national, sovereign and independent, unitary and indivisible state. (...) romania is a state of law, democratic and social, in which human dignity, the rights and freedoms of citizens, the free development of the human personality, justice and political pluralism are supreme values, in the spirit of the democratic traditions of the romanian people and the ideals of the revolution of december 1989 and are guaranteed. article 2: national sovereignty belongs to the romanian people, who exercise it through their representative bodies, constituted by free, periodic and fair elections, as well as by referendum. no group or individual can exercise sovereignty in its own name. today we are witnessing the worrying politicization by one political group of a debate that should have the opposite aim, to remove the political factor and encourage fact-based considerations. today's debate has an example value. the rule of law is not a divine and unalterable creation, but a human construct that must be maintained and renewed continuously, not only in romania, but everywhere in the european union. but there's also a "but". the european union talks cannot and should not replace solutions. president juncker and president iohannis have said it: we, the romanians, must find the solutions in romania. romania wants to comply with constitutional and european standards, but through viable institutional dialogue. but the european union must understand that romania is not a second-rate country with second-rate citizens. there are still unresolved issues, but nevertheless romania has shown political and civic responsibility by addressing these issues in an open and comprehensive manner. we've fled the soviet union too long to accept anyone else's authority over us. the great test that the political class must pass is the extent to which it can generate good governance that ensures stability, balance and prosperity to society. and the test we have to take is not in front of europe, but in front of our children and our descendants.
mr president, the social democratic party claims to be reforming the judiciary, to bring the judiciary into line with european standards, but who can trust the social democratic party? can you let a thief set the price in the store he is stealing from? no, because he'll declare it all free. the european rules cited by the psd do not say that a government can change laws to be exempt from them. let's recap: psd won the election after promising money, prosperity, plus the sea with salt. but the first decision of the government was to amend laws for crimes in the files of psd leaders. abuse of office has been erased, and the threshold for embezzlement has been raised. the amendments made by the psd to the justice laws make prosecutors investigators at the hands of the bosses and subject the investigations to a new control body. the psd changed two governments in one year because they couldn't exempt the psd leaders from the law. psd mps rejected the inquiries sent by the prosecutors when they concerned psd leaders. now, the criminally investigated are members of the government. asked why the psd appoints people with records to the government, a party leader replied: "because we can!" he said, "because we can get away with it". the european parliament must tell the psd that only what is legal is allowed and that it won the elections, not the judiciary. the message must be sent only to the government of romania. the idea that the rule of law situation has to be linked to european funds is wrong. it would punish voters who exercised their right to vote and not a government that exercises its ability to enforce the law. (the president agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president, distinguished colleague. i'll leave the language aside, but i want to ask you a very concrete question: do you recognize the constitution of romania? article 61 of the constitution of romania states very clearly that parliament is the supreme representative body of the romanian people and the only legislative authority of the country.have the romanian justice laws now been passed by parliament after a public debate of months or not?
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. yes, they were obviously passed through parliament, but that does not solve the issues that the romanian government and the ruling party now have to answer. the question remains, why the rush? why the first day? and why address critical, criminal or pre-criminal situations in which members of the government are?
mr president, the rule of law presupposes the existence of laws in force, ladies and gentlemen. in bucharest, we intend to legislate, because neither the laws of the organization of justice are laws in force. nor did we have any discussion about amending the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure. today's discussion is far from being about the rule of law, it is a politician's discussion and your concern is only meaningful from the perspective of a political partisanship. i do not want to believe that by this debate you want to prevent a national parliament from exercising its main prerogative, that of legislating, because that would be undemocratic and unfair. but what i want to talk about is fairness and the rule of law. the presumption of innocence, commissioner, the rights and freedoms in criminal proceedings are not procedural guarantees that the european union protects? you are the guarantor of the treaties. what did you do, madam commissioner, when hundreds of people were abusive sent to prison and acquitted? what did you do, commissioner, when many, many citizens were intercepted outside the law? when was the intelligence service, which has no role in the criminal process, involved in the making of it? what was done, commissioner, when member states, which privilege the right of their companies to bribe in romania, bribe in romania? the files were closed because they did not suit the economic interests of some member states. we are very sorry, commissioner, but justice is done in good faith, with honesty and fairness and only such values are not demonstrated in today's debate.
mr president, commissioner, romania is not to blame for this debate, nor are the romanians. this is the action of a group of parliamentarians temporarily majority and a government in constant change, which, without responsibility and with a small dose of competence, is trying to divert romania from a normal path of the rule of law and the state responsible to the citizen. i understand you've met with the minister of justice and, from your speech, i see that he hasn't convinced you. he is unhappy that he is not speaking in the european parliament. his boss, the prime minister of romania, was a member of the european parliament here. he knows the rules very well and has attended similar debates, in which the prime minister of the state concerned participated and was able to express his point of view. the prime minister of romania was supposed to be here today, not the minister of justice's image exercise. judicial laws must ensure a balance between the independence and accountability of magistrates, not make them available to politics through administrative measures. in romania, now, the views of professional organizations of magistrates, of the superior council of magistrates, of ngos, of citizens have no weight. i think the venice commission's position would be very necessary. commissioner, i repeat what i said: temporal structures, parliament or government, can deviate from european values and principles. the treaty on european union provides for measures in such cases. the commission must apply them. conditioning the implementation of the european budget on the rule of law, which is not provided for in the treaty, is a measure that would adversely affect the citizens of that state, without any effect on the government. this proposal must not be part of the future mff.
mr president, minister panayotova, commissioner jourova, the commission recently stated: 'we are very aware of the situation in romania'. commissioner jourova, i regret to say that, including through what you have said in the chamber today, the commission either does not know the situation in romania or is turning a blind eye to certain aspects. as regards the content of the amendments, the solutions are in line with the recommendations of the venice commission, the constitutional court and are inspired by existing solutions in other member states of the european union. i refuse to believe that solutions that guarantee the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights and freedoms in western europe become simply unacceptable in romania. i refuse to believe that my country is treated like a second-rate country. moreover, the commission confuses, in a way that is difficult to qualify, the assessment of the three laws that have already been adopted with what would happen in the future, not telling us a single reference element - article, paragraph or part of the law - that would raise the slightest question of independence, neutrality or affecting the fight against corruption. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. president, the romanians shouted in the streets, "we want justice, not corruption". the romanians want to be in europe, and that's what we want too: in europe. the psd and alde want to take us out of europe. they have unleashed the fight against corruption and against justice and against the rule of law. this coalition and the minister of justice, sent as a representative of the romanian government, who is here somewhere, shamelessly lies, telling the commission and parliament that these amendments will transpose european directives. that's not true. the 2014 directive on the presumption of innocence has not been transposed so far. it's very bad. but i want to tell you that it sets much higher standards in romanian laws than the directive. so the presumption of innocence is much better protected than the directive. as such, let's forget this lie. what are they trying to do with the amendments to the criminal codes? it is very important for the member states because it will affect cross-border judicial cooperation for cross-border crimes, it will affect a crime committed in another state or committed in romania, which will become a haven for crime. for example, they want an investigation to begin only after a person is informed that they are being investigated. i mean, you get a complaint, you call x and you say, "i got a complaint for corruption. " can you still be flagrant? can you keep investigating? no, it is over. another change: any computer evidence of other crimes will be deleted and trashed. if you discover child pornography, you will have to throw it away and destroy it. you won't be able to change them. also, cameras in public places will no longer be able to function, no longer be able to be evidence. no, i had two minutes and i want to have exactly as much as mr. boostinaru had. i speak for my country, not for the party. (the president interrupted the speaker. )
mr. president, i've heard a lot of lies in my life, but i really think that deputy macovei has now crossed the line. when a society reacts to the important issues that are being debated, it's welcome, because it's good, natural civic engagement. when the european commission takes an interest in what is happening in a member state, it is natural, because in the eu we are all members of one big family. but it's also natural for us all to look at the institutional mechanisms that a country has to pass legislation in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law. in romania, such mechanisms exist and function. we have a constitutional court that issues binding decisions for parliament, obliging it to bring any law into conformity with the constitution a constitutional court that, despite criticism expressed over time, is independent and has proven this through decisions taken under various governments. we have the president of romania, who makes a check of appropriateness before promulgating a law, having the right to send it back to parliament, explaining precisely which provisions could affect the independence of the judiciary. they are democratic mechanisms and we must trust them, but this does not exclude the evaluation of a legislation by the venice commission, which can make an objective analysis, because what is desirable is a legislation and a justice in the benefit of romanian citizens.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to make a comment: the minister of justice who is here today is a member of the venice commission. it is true that i too, i confess, am concerned about the rule of law in romania. i think he's in trouble. about ten years ago, the justice laws were changed, without any public debate, by taking responsibility, and gave the president the prerogative to reject the appointment of magistrates to executive positions, which is exactly what poland is being blamed for today. romania has meanwhile become the state with the most convictions at the echr for abuses against its citizens and no one is held accountable. so the rule of law is in trouble in romania. in these years, more and more wiretapping warrants were issued in romania. to give you just one example, in 2015, there were 16 times more wiretap and surveillance warrants requested than by the fbi. thousands of citizens were listened to during the election, the last parliamentary election, on the grounds of national security, or to put it simply: terrorism. these were businessmen, civil servants, politicians, some even candidates. it's as if, exactly at the elections, about a thousand terrorists appeared in romania and disappeared afterwards just as suddenly, in a country where there is no terrorist and no act of terrorism, and after the elections, as i tell you, they disappeared. so the rule of law is in trouble in romania. according to our constitution, it is the parliament that can fix these problems, in my opinion as a citizen, and it does not have to ask for anyone's approval and can only be censored by the constitutional court, which is functioning. i think there's nothing more to discuss. i'd like to end this, but if i have a second, i want to tell you that i want the independence of the judiciary, but above all, of romania.
mr president, since 2005 romania has a law system based on vague, subjective, interpretable and discretionary laws supported through secret protocols by the intelligence services – why secret if they are constitutional? – and services which were ousted from the judiciary process immediately after the revolution. consequently, the anti—corruption struggle was easily abused, being transformed into an instrument directed against political adversaries and economic competitors transferring power from those elected to those appointed. as a result, in the last two years the media is full of the abuses committed in the anti—corruption struggle and the courts have declared inadmissible an increasing number of cases submitted by anti—corruption prosecutors. and now, when the romanian parliament is obliged to correct a number of articles declared unconstitutional by the constitutional court – eliminating their subjectivity – the sovereignty of the romanian people is being questioned. in the end, i would like to ask our critics: why should the romanians feel more under surveillance now in democracy than during ceausescu’s time?
mr president, i admit that this is not the happiest day of my life, but the progress made by romania since 2007 in the process of strengthening the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, and the fight against corruption is undeniable. unfortunately, the psd-alde government shows us that this progress is not irreversible. the legislative process of the current parliamentary majority, which has tried to subordinate the judiciary to the political factor, but also a lack of transparency in the debate of such changes, has brought hundreds of thousands of people to the streets, and this is something you cannot dispute, esteemed colleagues. at the same time, it has generated a strong reaction from the entire body of magistrates, who are opposed to these changes, but also serious and legitimate concerns from the european commission. no one is contesting the right of parliament to legislate, but the current psd-alde government must understand one thing, and that is that it cannot play with romania's european path. the independence of the romanian judiciary, its capacity to effectively combat corruption, legislative predictability, and the existence of functioning mechanisms to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizen must become indestructible realities and constitute the cornerstones of a strong romania within the european union. that is why i believe that it is necessary at this time to start a broad public consultation process with the associations of magistrates, with civil society, while identifying functional models at the level of the member states of the european union, but also consulting the venice commission on some basic aspects of judicial reforms.
mr president, commissioner, unfortunately today so many untruths have been told that we should also set up a new initiative: lying kills. what can i say, we all wondered why the minister of justice of romania is not allowed to speak. why is it falsely claimed that the prime minister should have come, who, you know, is not a member of the council and who didn't even receive an invitation. the reasons are very simple: because it is not the truth that is of interest today, but political speeches and the lack of any argument. they are not in a position, the critics, to say, "sir, this article, this paragraph is wrong", because there is no such thing. they peddled today and, unfortunately, i want to tell you, some of my colleagues lied and misinformed you, commissioner. perhaps if you had accepted the meeting with the minister, i'm sure you would have had a different speech today. how is it possible to speak about the independence of the judiciary when those laws were passed by the constitutional court? declared constitutional. how is it possible that you do not know or have not been told that, of the 350 amendments, 270 were proposed by the superior council of magistracy? there are elements that everyone should know, but unfortunately, not the truth interested today, but a political debate, the most unpleasant case.
mr. president, mr. boštinaru said earlier that we have a second-rate country. no, we don't have a second-rate country. we have a seventh-tier government, because if it hadn't been so, we would have had the prime minister of that government, mrs dancila, who, when she was sworn in, was presented as the key figure in the european union institutions. when he had the chance to defend the government, he stayed home, afraid. i do not understand, however, why mr toader is here, because, as mr diaconu said, he is indeed a member of the venice commission. but when mr juncker and mr timmermans asked the romanian government to consult the venice commission, who was the first to say: 'we don't need it'? mr. toader himself, a member of this committee. in general, the romanian government's attitude is contemptuous of the commission. the majority members, the pesedistas, the alde members say that there is no information, that everything is a lie, while at the same time defending corruption, defending plagiarism, promoting illiteracy. so, this is a situation where i can only ask the following: are you pesedistas not ashamed? (the president agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr. president, i don't know whether mr. preda deserves a blue card or not. i would like to ask him, however, with obvious embarrassment: mr preda, did you listen to the speech of your former political patron, traian basescu, about the laws of justice in romania? it is he who created you and then abandoned you. what did traian basescu say about the justice laws in romania?
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i'm used to personal attacks. i am not used to the stage in which the psd-ists, who have made traian basescu the absolute evil, are now mobilizing him in their fight against the rule of law. this is really something new. i know there's no limit to their ability, but i still believe we have to be honest and consistent. we can't say one thing here and the opposite at home. you defend the corrupt, you publicly appear with people who are convicted, with people who are sent to trial. you put in government illiterate and people who have to answer for the theft of billions. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i was minister of justice in the czech republic for five years and was responsible for judicial reform, so let me make a few comments from someone who knows a little bit about this problem, albeit from another country. i find the reform that is currently being introduced in romania to be totally unacceptable. it's quite obvious that this will make it very difficult to investigate corruption. we can mention the specifics here, the shortened deadline for reporting corruption, the manner of questioning for this crime, the need to notify someone that they're under investigation, etc. these are concrete matters and i am very glad that we are dealing with them here today, and i am a little sorry that our socialist colleagues are not willing to look at the matter objectively and that they only see it partisan and politically. but there are objective criteria for how serious crimes should be investigated, and the current romanian government simply denies those criteria. and that's an objective fact, even though one may be a fan of one side or the other. and so if the commission is dealing with poland today, it should also be dealing with romania, where the situation is similar.
mr president, as president juncker said last week, it is not the place to talk about the lack of respect for the rule of law in romania. the justice act package comes as a necessity of correlating domestic legislation with the decisions of the constitutional court, the echr case law, the recommendations of the european commission, but also the proposals of professional bodies and institutions serving justice in romania. there has never been a question of the romanian parliament not taking into account the decisions of the constitutional court, and as far as the legislative process is concerned, according to the constitution, there is a double control: on the one hand, the control exercised by the constitutional court, and on the other hand, the control exercised by the president. what is happening in romania today is the perfect proof of the exercise of democracy, involving both civil society and the people's representatives in the country's legislative forum. 2018 is the centenary of the great union. romania is in celebration. it's the 100th anniversary of the great union. i wish we all joined efforts and energy to celebrate romania. we are witnessing natural debates in a functioning democracy, but internal debates should not be presented in the european parliament as false political disputes, risking creating emotion and social division in the year of the centenary, a pre-election year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 600 000 people in the streets against the government: do you think the government is doing good things for the people or bad things for the people? the reality in romania is this: there is a major discrepancy between what the people want and what the governing coalition wants. people want justice, justice, rule of law, rule of law. people want european values, and politicians in government want the state institutions to be weakened, they want a justice system under their own control. who are these politicians? at the top of them is the president of the social democratic party, who is also the president of the parliament, convicted of electoral fraud. commissioner, do you think a convicted felon doctoring the laws of justice strengthens or weakens justice? i think it weakens her. i don't trust that it reinforces it and that's why i want to say the following. first, we need to send the following message to the romanians who are protesting: what you do is seen, it matters. europe distinguishes between honest people and corrupt politicians. commissioner, i ask you to stand with the people who want justice.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the council representative for his fair, balanced, objective and reserved position. commissioner, you are the disappointment of my day today, because i am going to leave you with this brochure, in which you will also find the graphs of how the public debate was and how many amendments were made by the professional associations, whether we are talking about judges, magistrates and perhaps you understand that the course, now, of changing the laws of justice is a necessity. because i don't understand from the title, how do you mean to put a title that reform in the judiciary would affect the rule of law? i say that the lack of reform would affect the rule of law. mrs macovei, who applauds here when she shouldn't, has made a package of laws, by assuming, in which there are still many unconstitutional articles. what this government and the minister are struggling with now, with all due respect to his professionalism, is to correct these unconstitutional amendments. there have been hundreds of people, thousands of people put in jail on the laws of mrs. macovei and now we pay to the echr from the budget of romanian citizens.
mr president the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the rule of law in romania require continuous efforts. however, criticisms and indications cannot be ignored: accusations of political commitment by the heads of the institutions, unjustified and illegal links with the secret services, serious excesses in specific cases, disregard for fundamental rights. the necessary amendments to the justice laws must be made in the interest of citizens and it is important that politics does not weaken the toolbox of the institutional system of fighting corruption, but to completely shut down amendments and see in every single article a political attack on the justice system is a huge mistake. the union should monitor the romanian judicial system not only from the perspective of fighting corruption, but also take into account the general rule of law principles, as this is where the vast masses of citizens feel the weaknesses of the judicial system most.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that we are once again facing a dirty campaign of disinformation against romania and that we are in an extremely dangerous situation, in which the legitimate actions of a national parliament are being challenged. what you didn't understand is that today we are talking about some justice laws in romania that have as their objective the respect of the rights and civil liberties of romanian citizens and the respect of the principle of innocence. perhaps we should discuss here, in the forum of european democracy, the hundreds, if not thousands of lives destroyed in romania by not respecting this principle enshrined in european law, namely the principle of innocence. let's talk about televised justice, about careers and public image destroyed by cases based on inconclusive and unsound evidence, which were eventually settled without prosecution or even dismissed. when we talk about justice laws, we are talking about a package of laws that has been debated for months together with professional associations as well as at the level of the national parliament, and the amendments that have been tabled are the emanation of this consultation process.
mr president, i would like to ask madam commissioner, who today expressed so many concerns and objections about the three laws governing the justice system that were amended in january in the romanian parliament: why, madam commissioner, did you not express any concerns or any objections when, in 2016, the cioloș government – the so-called ‘expert’s government’ but in reality a right-wing government – issued an emergency ordinance to amend and supplement the penal code and the code of criminal procedures, amending 114 articles? in this way the codes were amended in a non-transparent manner and without debate or public consultation, without the competent authorities or any interested parties being able to propose amendments or formulate technical observations. why, madam commissioner? because the political correctness ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, madam commissioner, your colleagues, president juncker and commissioner timmermans, have expressed their concern and have urged the romanian parliament to amend the justice laws, which were adopted last year without being promulgated and without knowing the verdict of the romanian constitutional court. we are dealing here with serious interference in the constitutional and internal affairs of the romanian state. you pulled the short straw, commissioner. those concerns, which are not supported by them today but by you, do not seem to be shared by the european parliament. look around you: there are twenty or fewer members from other member states who are as concerned as you are. i listened carefully to the speeches and i can only note a simple spread of slogans, especially on the right. such a debate has no place in this house without the participation of the representatives of the romanian authorities to explain and to be transparent with you. i challenge all colleagues to think about what decisions they would make in their countries if they were faced with the same abuses in justice that romania has had in recent years and that they are trying hard to remove. romania and bulgaria must be admitted to schengen and the cvm must disappear. these are debates that should take place here in the house.
mr president, the fact that we are talking today about the situation in romania, in our country - i am referring to those colleagues in romania - in such apocalyptic terms, dear colleagues, shows, as the case may be, the limits of understanding or even the anti-romanian agenda of some of you, especially as we are at a key moment when the financial instruments after 2020 are being reconfigured within the european union and we already have the incorrect narrative of the conditioning of european money by the so-called degree of respect for the rule of law. these are interesting times. i want to say one thing very clearly: romanians are european citizens. we are good europeans. we are in solidarity with the values of european-style democracy and we want a true rule of law, without elements of unconstitutionality, without abuse, with an internal system of checks and balances. last word, mr. preda: you're only interested in playing yourself. it's a shame what you're doing.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for having this debate. this debate is not about the commission or the parliament; it is about justice for romanians who have legitimate expectations that there would be independent and efficient justice for them in romania. however, some of you mentioned or questioned the role of the commission. let me reiterate that the role of the commission is to fulfil the obligation of the guardian of the treaty. it is our duty to assess the situation of the rule of law in each member state and to raise concerns when we see systemic problems. the justice system is a sophisticated and complex structure, calibrated on the basis of legal traditions and fulfilling the principle of the balance of powers in the state. such a system is built over decades and can be destroyed in a week or overnight. that is why we are so vigilant and that is why we have raised the concerns at this moment. we are assessing objectively the romanian system on the basis of evidence and facts. we are offering dialogue and support. this is what we do. what we do not do, because we must not do that, is interfere in individual cases – just to respond to the question of ms nicolai. the independence of romania’s judicial system and its capacity to fight corruption effectively are essential cornerstones of a strong romania in the european union. after ten years of hard work, romania has a professional judiciary and the population of romania has been clear in its support for the fight against corruption. i am confident that all the romanian authorities fully realise this and will do what is necessary to bring the draft laws into line with the constitution and send a strong signal that will help rebuild trust. the commission stands by to help romania in this endeavour, however and whenever that is useful.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, let me assure you once again that the bulgarian presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and fundamental values within the european union. the council will continue to follow this debate closely and the presidency will pay particular attention to the views which were expressed here today.
in writing. recent laws aimed at changing the way the judiciary functions in the romanian state have gained wide visibility at european level. under the watchful eyes of the european institutions and the member states, a part of the romanian political environment risks taking a significant step back from the path towards the finalization of european integration, trying to remove the romanian state from the notable progress made under the cooperation and verification mechanism. this mechanism belongs to the european commission, whose president, jean-claude juncker, expressed his appreciation for the progress of the romanian judicial system in recent years, but also feared the irreversibility of the mistake that members of the romanian parliament are about to make. secondly, these laws risk significantly removing the acceding state from the schengen area. the decision to join is taken by agreement of the european ministers of justice and the interior, who i doubt would agree to expose any additional danger to the security of people, the single market and european capital. as a romanian politician, i am confident that after today's debate, my colleagues in the government will have the good judgment to adopt a fair, pro-romanian and pro-european package of laws.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank eider gardiazabal rubial who was our rapporteur on this file for the final agreement which she managed to negotiate. i think this reflects the view of the vast majority of the members of the house and of the political groups, and it is with great pleasure that we are going to support this. i would also like to thank vice—president jyrki katainen for the very helpful role that the commission has played throughout the nine trialogues which we held together with two presidencies, the maltese and the estonian, before we managed to agree on this important file. and president hoyer, to you and to the staff of the eib, i also thank you for always having been by our side with the adequate expertise. we have always said from the beginning that we were going to review the external lending mandate based on the needs on the ground; we have seen that since the beginning of the external lending mandate. politically, we have decided to take a more active role in the eastern neighbourhood of the union to support countries which have embarked on a pro-european path there and also to engage more actively in the southern neighbourhood of the union to help tackle, of course, the migration and refugee crises. what we have done with these changes to the external lending mandate was to use the flexibility to increase and enlarge it where possible, and also to make use of the reduced exposure in turkey due to the fact that less financeable projects could be found there; to make use of all of this flexibility to enable us to put resources where they are needed and to respect the political commitments which we have made. we are of course as a parliament disappointed that the council, the member states, did not agree to increase the overall level of ceilings. it would have meant only increasing the burden on the budget of the union in a very small manner – by eur 34 million – and it would have enabled even more predictability in terms of the eib’s engagement in the long term. but i believe that the compromise, the solution found is a good one. and i am looking forward to the vote and a large majority tomorrow in plenary.
blue-card question. – mr coburn, you are always very loud, you come from a very civilised country and i had supposed that you were a very civilised person, especially in this very important institution of the european union. i think that you should have to apologise because you were using the term ‘idiotic’ when referring to the junker plan. i don't think it is appropriate in such a room to use these words. as you are leaving the european union, you shouldn't have to use these words because the future of the united kingdom, mr coburn, will always be linked with european union. remember this.
mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, ms gardiazabal rubial, for managing to make this a progressive tool for promoting sustainable development and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as objectives. the guarantee fund for external actions is part of the external investment plan, as well as the european fund for sustainable development, which was already voted on in plenary in july 2017. the european investment bank (eib) establishes a coherent, integrated framework to foster investment in africa and the european neighbourhood, with the aim of promoting decent job creation and inclusive and sustainable development. i would like to emphasise that, yes, it is also addressing secondary root causes of migration, but it is crucially important to sustain the development of the european union’s eastern neighbourhood, including three countries that are associated with the european union. the fund protects the eu budget from shocks that might otherwise emerge in the event of defaults on loans guaranteed by the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – unfortunately, it seems that you do not understand and you do not know the mechanism involved with how this fund is functioning. it is so important for the european union, and especially for those countries, to promote development and to promote job creation, decent jobs and a better life for all those people. you have to support the same thing if you are a democrat. if not, unfortunately, you will probably one day come to say that it was a big mistake for you and for your colleagues to support brexit.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is good to see you. i would say to eib president hoyer and commission vice-president katainen that good investments are, of course, crucial for europe in this ever-changing global economic landscape, and 2016, the year that the report refers to, was a very good year for the european investment bank. eib investment amounted to eur 83 billion and helped to mobilise investment of eur 280 billion. this is emphasised in our report, in which we place particular emphasis on three aspects. firstly, delivering on the juncker plan: through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), we entrusted the eib to put money to work in europe by making loans and ‘crowding in’ private capital. however, the investment gap is still an issue for many european countries. it is important, president hoyer, that the eib should continue to provide much-needed technical assistance and advisory support to reduce the existing regional discrepancies, especially in regions with low investment capacity. this can be achieved, of course, by cooperating with national promotional banks. secondly, on addressing the migration challenge: we have been, with parliament’s committee on budgets, in tunisia last year, and two years ago in jordan and lebanon, countries which are seeing hundreds of thousands of refugees coming from various countries in the region. we have seen that we have to do more for infrastructure in those countries – healthcare, education, electricity and waste infrastructure – and in terms of helping the host communities, making sure that smes, not only in capitals but also in regions, have access to credit. this is also something on which parliament’s rapporteurs, led here by eider gardiazabal rubial, have focused. thirdly, on the external lending mandate, which we had a chance to debate an hour ago: the important message is that, with the changes we have made, the eib will be capable of fulfilling the needs on the ground. lastly, of course, i would mention smes, which are so important for the european economy. i would like to conclude by thanking all the colleagues involved and the rapporteur, who has worked tirelessly on this report. we adopted it with a large majority in the budgets committee. i am confident that we will be able to adopt it with a large majority here in plenary as well. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think we have found a good compromise in the framework of this report, in which we said that tackling climate change is an important objective. it is a political objective of the union; the eib is the bank of the european union; we are working together with them to achieve climate change. in parallel, of course, we should work on developing infrastructure within the member states of the union and in our immediate neighbourhood – that meaning energy, digital, road, railways – but, of course, always with this overarching objective in mind that, together, we need to tackle climate change.
mr president, the union's external human rights policy is a source of support for many human rights defenders. we all know the challenges faced in some countries by those who take action to protect human rights, and where appropriate to combat abuses by the authorities. in some countries, human rights defenders risk their lives to expose wrongdoing and protect victims. all this activity is made all the more dangerous when the human rights defenders themselves come from a socially vulnerable group and unfortunately, being female also means such vulnerability in some places. on the other hand, it is women human rights defenders who are the most determined and passionate advocates for the victims and for persons or groups whose human rights have been violated, and therefore the disruption of their work can often result in the paralysis of entire organisations. one of the easiest attack areas for opponents of the activities of human rights defenders against women human rights defenders is the exploitation of social prejudices against women. this is a real problem in many countries and requires a serious response from international organisations that support human rights work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us put this matter in its proper perspective. the argument from 2000 that changing the time helps us save energy is no longer valid, especially as other energy efficiency measures are already widely implemented in all eu member states. currently, the number of negative consequences outweighs the number of benefits to justify this practice. from various health issues, such as an increased risk of heart attacks for women and the elderly, to a 30% higher rate of road accidents in the immediate aftermath of the time change. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. my opinion is that we should eliminate this game of changing the clock. why would you do that? because, for example, this would help to improve the long-term planning of freight as well as passenger routes. i therefore ask the commission to re-evaluate and revise this directive.
madam president, commissioner, we have all expressed our views. i think we need to express the opinion of the citizens. i come from industry, and you know it was very hard when i was working three shifts and changing the time, i was always late for work. kids, we have to change all the clocks in the house. i don't think, i don't think that if we're a union we shouldn't have the same time. i live in romania, when i go to another country i make sure to change my watch, so i'm not late. these are absolutely normal things, and then my colleagues talked about biorhythm. you can't dictate to the body to adapt, today i'm moving the clock forward, but the body adapts. i support the report and hope that we will achieve a uniform time in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, in 2009, after the brutal murder of his colleague natalia estemirova, oyub titiev became the director of the office of the human rights centre memorial in chechnya and did not give in to pressure to suggest that closing the office was the most reasonable thing to do, given the crimes and abuses that human rights activists and journalists were facing in that region. it takes a lot of courage, day by day, to defend the most basic freedoms in chechnya, because ramzan kadyrov - putin's protégé - believes that in the region he rules in an authoritarian manner, civil society and journalists should be agents of his propaganda and his personality cult. that is why oyub titiev and journalist zhalaudi geriev are in prison today, and that is why the offices of the memorial centre in a neighbouring republic were attacked. this is also why the murder of natalia estemirova was never investigated and was never solved. i call on the russian authorities, on behalf of my political group, which is the initiator of this debate, to release oyub titiev and to ensure that the abuses against the human rights centre 'memorial' on their territory cease.
madam president, it is not an enviable position to be the director of a human rights ngo in chechnya. beyond trivial things, such as your work and person being continuously discredited by the authorities, or the fact that the organisation you lead could be closed down at any time, you are very likely to end up in prison, and it can also happen that you are shot dead, as the terrible case of natalya estemirova shows. in this sense one could say that we should be relieved that the 60-year-old human rights activist oyub titiyev only faces 10 years in prison on charges that are, in all likelihood, fabricated. the arrest of mr titiyev falls into the clear pattern in which the authorities of the chechen republic try to crush all criticism of ramzan kadyrov, the kremlin-backed leader of chechnya. i hope that the high representative and the eeas will give this and all other cases of political persecution the adequate weight they deserve in eu-russia discussions.
before we start our voting session, i have to make two announcements and i would like to have your attention. the first announcement is related to the taiwan earthquake. at the resumption of this plenary sitting, our thoughts go out to the victims of the powerful earthquake in taiwan yesterday, some of whom are still missing. we wish the victims, their families and the emergency workers, who are still working round the clock to help as many people as possible, every strength in the aftermath of this natural disaster.
the second announcement is that the competent authorities of france have notified the election to the european parliament of jacques colombier, with effect from 2 february 2018, replacing edouard ferrand. i welcome our new colleague and remind him that he takes his seat in parliament and on its bodies and enjoys all the rights attaching thereto under the conditions laid down by the regulation. ***
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
as i was reminded, we are now deciding on the decision of the committee and not on the text as such.
the vote is over.
mr president, i am glad to have colleagues from the ecr who share this vision. i voted for this resolution condemning turkey and, moreover, i have been making this speech, constantly, throughout the time since erdogan established the dictatorship. thousands of people have been displaced and several hundred killed since the turkish government's military incursion against kurdish militias in the afrin enclave in northwestern syria began. the syrian observatory for human rights estimates that 67 syrian citizens were killed as a result of this military operation. of these 67, 20 are children. the situation is very serious and deteriorating. the turkish government is determined to break every international obligation, every international treaty, ignores the fact that it is a member of the un, so i don't think that diplomatic talks will be able to have a positive conclusion. i would remind you that the netherlands recently broke off diplomatic relations, froze diplomatic relations with turkey, saying that at this moment it is not appropriate to maintain diplomatic relations. all member states should do this.
mr. president, in venezuela, president maduro has replaced parliament with a puppet structure, by which he wants to practically concentrate all power in his hands. further, the president announced presidential elections in april, but banned the candidacies of his real opponents. so again, there's going to be some ghost choices, made specifically for him to win back. moreover, the caracas executive has used force brutally and repeatedly against citizens who took to the streets to demand their rights. in 2017, we have reports that show that over 120 people were killed, several thousand were injured, and over 300 were imprisoned for political reasons. inflation of over 4,000 percent has turned venezuela's economic crisis into a humanitarian crisis, and we're dealing with a food security situation. we can't tolerate this and we have to help people, not the government.
mr. president, first of all, i would like to extend my condolences to the families of the killed israeli soldiers, hadar goldin and oron shaul. hamas and the palestinian authority must return their bodies. in addition, the humanitarian actions in gaza of the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east should be supported, as they are essential, as this agency supports approximately 5 000 000 palestinian refugees. we ask the agency to streamline costs, reduce them, balance them with benefits, continue education reforms to bring it in line with un standards and condemn the use of its facilities by hamas, which is happening and is not condemned. the agency continues to need support. we will ask the arab states to supplement the funding, but the agency must also be visibly effective.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, one of the arguments against the tap pipeline and the use of gas in general is that it is harmful to the environment. however, southeastern europe uses more coal than gas for energy, with coal having an even greater impact on long-term climate change. indeed, the ideal for the whole of europe and the world is to be powered by renewable energy, but this ideal is still in the works. i believe that supplying italy and southern europe with gas and, by implication, ensuring energy security should not and will not in any way slow down the development of renewable energies. until the ideal of full renewable energy supply is achieved, gas remains a viable option. moreover, this project has the potential to strengthen cooperation between european union member states, such as greece, and european union aspirant countries, such as albania. the project can also improve the energy infrastructure of the entire region, not just the states through which the pipeline will pass, thus bringing economic benefits to these countries and regions. for albania, for example, the construction and hosting of the pipeline can facilitate european integration by increasing the economic stability and geostrategic importance of that state. the construction of the pipeline also comes with benefits for local communities, through hiring, procurement and taxes to be paid to the states concerned. we politicians are in the service of the citizens and must represent their interests both now and in the future. local authorities must talk to citizens, not impose themselves by force. they must seek to understand them and explain their actions in an objective, clear and understandable way. they need to connect with people and make their communities partners for a safer and more prosperous future. now europe has gas supply links with russia, africa and the north sea. adding a new source and a new route reduces the risk of becoming dependent, of facing energy crises as happened in 2009 and, not least, the risk of becoming subject to prices and interests. europe therefore needs an alternative to gas supply, but it also needs an open and effective dialogue with its citizens. i therefore encourage the continuation of the project, given the prospects for energy independence in the south and - why not? - in the whole of europe. (the president agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i did not understand the question. what's the question?
mr president, commissioner, thank you for giving us some information that i think is relevant. of course, there is no ideal system, of course we have to make compromises, there will never be a possibility to have a 100% clean environment. i know, colleague, it's very nice to say, and populist even, we are advocating here to have zero pollution, to have nothing. but the energy security you have spoken about, the fact that we are 70 per cent dependent on imports and even with the tendency to increase to 80 per cent, i think are extraordinarily important arguments to support this tap project and i support it. obviously, consultation is important, but you should know that i lived in a flooded area, and the local authorities told the citizens not to build, that the water was taking their house, and yet they built. very often we have to make the citizens understand. decision makers need to know how to explain, so that the citizen understands that later it turns against him if we have to oppose such an important project as the tap project. i fully support this project, with the consultation of the authorities, of course.
another vote in favor.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the tragic routine of more than seven years of war in syria may give us the false idea that is there is not much we can do about it other than ignore it. there is a sense that the lives and the suffering of civilians dying under the bombs and chemical attacks of assad, russia and iran-backed militias in homs, aleppo, zabadani, madaiya, idlib and now ghouta are just numbers – the casualties of a war without restraint. the violation of international humanitarian law can be tolerated for some without any consequences for the future. you are so wrong. our responsibility is greater than we are prepared to assume. all parties are guilty in the failure to prevent the worst bloodshed of the 21st century. the warning signals of a humanitarian catastrophe in ghouta have been there for a long time, but the world has chosen to accept it with fatalism – tragic fatalism, i would say. i feel shame for those who are selling us this shameful apathy towards the syrian massacre in the name of the so-called fight against terrorism. shame on those who dare to close their eyes and hope that russia will solve all their problems. you are deluded. the war in syria might only be the beginning of war after war, which could be even worse. this is a place for wars. do not underestimate the war and the traumas inflicted on all syrian people and on the region because of the involvement of an increasing number of local and regional actors. what happens today will have repercussions in the long term. refugees will not stop. the eu will continue to play its chronic inability to act. the un resolution asking for an immediate ceasefire continues to be ignored by assad and his allies. a so-called ceasefire of only five hours has been implemented by russia. this ceasefire was a poisoned gift that only served to allow assad’s troops to advance on the ground. this move only side-lined the un as a decision-maker and allowed russia to impose its pax russica and further establish and strengthen its authority and role in the region. after syria vetoed the un resolution on chemical weapons used in syria, we have evidence today of the selling of arms, including chemical weapons, from north korea to syria. one question now hangs in the air: are we really unable today to make sure that at least the embargo on the selling of arms to syria is respected? this is a devastating question mark for our union and for humanity. finally, i will dare to look cautiously to the future. the only bridge to the future of the syrian people is a ceasefire and a un-led political solution, which includes un monitoring and an enforcement mechanism. while sounding a bit naive, i hope that the butchers of syria will be brought to international justice to answer for the war crimes and the crimes against humanity that they have committed.
mr. president, the supreme allied commander in europe, general breedlove, has warned that russian forces that have placed missiles in the black sea can control the entire black sea area and deploy nuclear weapons in the area. another warning came recently, a few months ago, from the head of military counterintelligence in germany who again said "the russian federation is not our friend and we must be prepared for anything". romania has the second largest external border in the european union. we have a border with the republic of moldova where soviet troops are still stationed, we have a border with serbia which is practically under russian control, we have a border with ukraine, with the black sea, implicitly with russian-occupied crimea. we have information about russian interference in elections in many democratic states through money and false propaganda. the war against democracy has begun. we need to increase funding for the security of the union, increase funding and strengthen european agencies fighting terrorism.
in writing. – regarding the multiannual financial framework (mff), romania has confirmed that member states need to increase their contributions to the eu budget in order to enhance the union’s capacities to deal with new realities in an efficient manner. facing the numerous security challenges arising from the south and east, reinforcing border management through the european border and coast guard agency and showing european solidarity with africa represent new engagements that require new capital. furthermore, i would like to stress that, in the new eu27 format, the budgetary gap caused by brexit should not under any circumstances be filled by resources from our european fundamental policies such as the cohesion fund or the common agriculture policy (cap), given the alarming effects that scenario could produce on our societies. therefore, i salute the decisions of the member states that have already expressed their agreement on an increased budgetary contribution, and i would remind the ones that have not done so that the european project brings to each of us incomparably more gains than our expenditure. i will end by making a comparison: while the eu’s annual budget is below 1% of europe’s gdp, the federal budget of the united states is equivalent to 30% of its gdp.
in writing. activation of article 7 teu is the toughest sanction against a member state. i can only speak on the situation in poland superficially. has a state of emergency been declared? have the institutions of the democratic state been abolished? were civil rights denied? none of this! but suppose, overnight, the situation became extremely serious. in that case, we must remember that for europeans, poland was the prize of the east. poland did not join the eu like romania or bulgaria with question marks, endless monitoring, warnings and checks. no, poland came in clean and with their heads held high. but if anything has changed in the democratic order of poland, then, logically, these changes have taken place since it is a member of the union! so, just as logically, it was precisely membership of the union that generated in poland the alleged deviations from democracy. are we able to accept that conclusion? if so, then it's not poland, but the union that has a big problem! if not, then it's a different matter. and it is very simple: the commission is not concerned with democracy, but with influencing the politics of a member state! and what the commission does is called political police!
mr president, i welcome the adoption of the european union's priorities for the 37th session of the un human rights council. i believe it is important that the union's voice should be united and coherent in the work of this session, and that we should build broader alliances on important issues. one of these issues is our commitment to genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, on which i presented a report which was voted by this plenary a few months ago. i believe that we must help to prevent any situation which could lead to genocide and work towards resolving the conflicts which cause it, but also fight for respect for humanitarian law. i am thinking in particular of the tragic situation of the syrians and the massacre of the rohingya. the human rights violations in iran also require our attention. iran leads the world in the number of executions per capita. according to our information, executions took place even during the visit last week of a delegation from this parliament, in which i participated.
mr president, respect for human rights is a founding value of the european union. commitment to human rights, democracy and the rule of law is a central pillar of our external action. for us, the united nations system regarding the promotion and protection of human rights is very important as well. peace and security and human rights and development are inseparable and mutually reinforcing. the international community must never accept impunity when genocide, criminality against humanity, war crimes or violations and abuses of international human rights law happen. i will continue to support a stronger system for the protection of human rights on the european continent. moreover, it is of paramount importance that we maintain an increasing focus on the protection and promotion of economic, social and cultural rights and that we protect human rights effectively, paying particular attention to the specific rights of those in vulnerable situations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important for consumers in the european union to find on the labels the ingredients and nutritional information that go into the composition of all alcoholic beverages, and this is necessary to ensure a high level of consumer protection, but also to ensure the prevention of fraudulent practices, as well as market transparency and fair competition. that is why it is beneficial for both industry and consumers to have a regulatory proposal at union level as soon as possible to provide information on the ingredients and nutritional content of alcoholic beverages. such measures could help to protect the reputation that spirit drinks produced in the union have acquired on the world market, while respecting the traditional practices used in the production process of spirit drinks. i consider it important that technological innovation plays an important role in this sector as it can contribute to improving quality without affecting the traditional character of the spirit drinks concerned.
mr president, spirit drinks are among the products covered by the eu protective scheme based on geographical indication. it is important to have rules concerning the protection of these products and to have regulations for making management procedures for spirit drinks more homogeneous. therefore, i support the modification of geographical indications, as the different schemes for geographical indications in the european union need to be harmonised, taking into consideration, however, the specificities of the spirit drinks sector of each and every member state. i welcome any action which would lead to increased consumer protection and stronger protection of consumer interests. it is of great importance that consumers, when buying anything labelled as vodka, whisky or pálinka on the eu market, have confidence that they will receive exactly what they expect – the original product and not a fake – and unfortunately there are still lots of fake products on the market.
mr president, i appreciate the fact that the report raises the situation of autochthonous national minorities in the eu. while the protection of minorities is a basic value of the european union and an essential part of the copenhagen criteria, there are still no common standards for minority protection in the eu. relegating this competence to the national sphere means that the situation of such minorities varies extremely in our shared area of freedom, security and justice from almost full equality to denied existence. the initial hopes of minorities in newly acceded member states gave way to disappointment. post-accession practice showed that once their country became an eu member state, there were no eu legal provisions and there was no political pressure to guarantee their rights. the fourth council of europe opinion on the application in romania of the framework convention on the protection of national minorities, published a week ago, clearly illustrates this unfortunate situation. the expert opinion describes in detail what i have also repeatedly drawn attention to in this house: it expresses serious concerns regarding matters such as hate speech against minorities, difficulties regarding education in students’ mother tongue, the obstruction of the restitution process for properties stolen by the communist regime, the prohibition of the use of national symbols, and so on. it is time that the eu also addressed these matters and no longer allowed the rights of eu citizens to be disrespected.
mr. president, equality is a fundamental right in the european union. it should be recognised and respected by all the member states and the european institutions. we are defending it through internal and external actions. nevertheless, we cannot only discuss equality when it suits us. for example, the report talks about the rule of law and corruption. however, the commission has shown corruption in the european union, while the cooperative and verification mechanism for both romania and bulgaria has been maintained. it is difficult not to feel a sense of double standards or inequality in the european union. let’s talk about equality when it comes to accession to the schengen area or double standards concerning the composition of food products in different member states. i strongly believe that equality between all european union citizens is a fundamental right, regardless of the member state they come from, and it should be taken more seriously. i look forward to working closely with my colleagues in the european parliament to defend it in order to ensure that this right will be applied to all european union citizens without any double standards… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. i should note that the 2016 eu fundamental rights annual own-initiative report (as in other years) focuses on the rule of law, migration, integration and discrimination and not on all aspects of eu fundamental rights. although the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. it is true that in 2016 the influx of migrants and asylum seekers to europe continued, racist and xenophobic reactions against them were widespread, and vulnerable populations continued to face high levels of discrimination and violence. however, we believe that we must fight for the principles of equality and justice throughout the eu, not accepting in any way the violations of fundamental human rights that continue in some member states and no form of discrimination against any european citizen or threats to the rule of law. of course, member states have the ultimate responsibility to protect human rights by ratifying and implementing international human rights treaties and conventions.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the work and legacy of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (2018/2530 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, after 24 years of investigations, the court that sentenced slobodan milošević, radovan karadžić, ratko mladić and also slobodan praljak, among others, as well as another 86 war criminals, has closed its doors at the end of last year, leaving a powerful legacy in relation to war crimes. it is an essential legacy that should be further used and better explained – for this time we strongly encourage the opening of an information office and access to all the archives. this is probably the most important legacy for the future. political tensions and the burdens of the war still overshadow the western balkan countries. the war has left deep wounds, and i have noted bitterly that some criminals are still celebrated like heroes by some in certain places in the region, while the victims are still side-lined. i trust that justice is one of the important tools of reconciliation, but a lot remains to be done and i encourage the western balkans leaders and politicians to put an end to the current situation by fostering regional cooperation and coordination.
member of the commission. – mr president, as always this has been a very useful exchange of views and understandable comments, ideas and commitment to the work. i will be sure to bring your views to the attention of commissioner hahn. i think it is fair to say that the commission, parliament, the european council and all of us are committed to reconciliation. the fight against impunity is an integral part of this approach. we have strong conditionality and we will continue to use it. we have learned from previous accessions that our approaches evolve but our ultimate aim is the same – to support justice for the victims. in december, commissioner hahn had the honour to be invited to the closing ceremony of the international tribunal. there were groups present representing the families of victims, victims of every nationality and every ethnicity, men, women and children. all had their criticisms of the tribunal and its work in specific cases, but all were in total agreement that without the tribunal, without the support of the international community and without the support of the european union, there would have been no justice at all. with our strategy for the western balkans we have reconfirmed our commitment to justice in the region. through our work together we can help bring that justice to all the victims regardless of ethnicity, religion, gender or age, and the commission looks forward to having parliament on its side as we engage in this important work in the future.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, firstly let me express my sincere gratitude for the work of the european parliament in supporting international humanitarian law and the important work of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. we join you in stressing the importance of policies of reconciliation as part of the european integration process so that civilians of all ethnicities may overcome the tensions of the past and begin peaceful and genuine coexistence in the interests of sustainable peace, stability and economic growth. the specific priority of the bulgarian presidency is the european perspective and connectivity in the western balkans, as the european perspective continues to be a major driving force for achieving stability in serious political and economic transformations. emphasising the importance of the tribunal in terms of building peace, fostering reconciliation and endorsing the rule of law, we encourage the respective governments involved in the tribunal’s processes to cooperate fully with, and respect the decision of, its successor, the mechanism for international criminal tribunals. as one of our main priorities, we will continue to support concrete progress on each country’s eu path, on the basis of merit, focusing on further strengthening institutions, good governance and the rule of law, building and fostering good neighbourly relations and inclusive regional cooperation, mitigating stability risks and promoting social economic development and cohesion. the tribunal has finished its existence, but there is still work to be done, so we encourage our western balkan partners to make further efforts to overcome legacies of the past and to foster reconciliation, including through promoting a climate of tolerance.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – the 24 years of operation of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) represent a legal success emerging from tragedy, from the atrocious crimes committed on the territory of former yugoslavia. at the time of its creation, few would have imagined that the perpetrators of these horrendous crimes would, one day, be brought to justice. during its 10 800 trial days, the icty heard 4 650 witnesses and convicted 90 people out of the 161 indicted. through its work, accountability for atrocities became a universal value and the landscape of international criminal and humanitarian law was irreversibly changed. its ground-breaking decisions have indeed played a pivotal role in shaping the architecture of international criminal justice of today. its work also helped alleviate the suffering of the victims and contributed to regional reconciliation. genuine and lasting reconciliation can be achieved only by explaining and accepting the reality of the crimes that have occurred in ex-yugoslavia – recognising and accepting, for instance, the genocide in srebrenica. while the tribunal’s work has ended, the reconciliation process should begin in earnest. it is the responsibility of political elites to carry the process forward in good faith, instead of glorifying the perpetrators of war crimes as happens regularly in bosnia and herzegovina.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the prohibited lobbying activities of former commission president barroso, e.g. meeting with commissioner katainen (2018/2605 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for the questions. first, i would like to answer ms gomes’s question regarding the defence and foreign policy-related issues which we discussed. i am sure you know most of them. i explained what we are planning to do with the defence industrial fund, how we have established a preparatory action on defence research, and also the latest developments on permanent structured cooperation on security and defence (pesco), etc. on the trade agenda, i explained or listed all the countries with whom we are negotiating, and things like that. as i am in charge of these issues and am interested in these issues, it says a lot that things are now moving in a positive direction in europe. those meps who are involved in these files will know more or less the substance of what i discussed. a couple of other remarks. i understand that people have controversial thoughts regarding goldman sachs as a financial institution. everybody has the right to have a negative, positive or neutral position on this. also, some people may have a certain attitude or opinion regarding mr barroso. i think we all can agree here that, as mr giegold said, transparency does not mean denying people the chance to meet each other. commissioners are allowed – just like anyone else – to meet mr barroso, for instance. he cannot be the only person in the world who cannot be met. i am sure that many of you can understand that it is natural to meet and discuss with a person who i know from many years back and who i consider a friend, who has a wide view on how the world is moving, just like anyone else meets him. if i invited him to my home with my wife, as a group of other friends, i would not expect anyone to ask me to invite a commission official to sit in the corner of my dining room and record what we are discussing. it is nothing more than a normal discussion. i checked my website today and i have never received anybody from goldman sachs. i would not have a problem meeting goldman sachs if they had something to say. a couple of my cabinet members have once or twice received representatives of goldman sachs, just like they meet all the other financial institutions, ngos, labour unions or industrial organisations who are interested in meeting with us. taking into account all the controversies around this topic, in my mind friendship also matters. i understand that everybody does not consider friendship in the same way that i do. it is not a matter which is relevant to public debate. friendship has its own value, and i do hope that we all see things like that. i will meet mr barroso next time: i do not know when, but hopefully, soon enough. we see each other very rarely nowadays because he is travelling and i am busy, but hopefully i will have a chance to meet him again, and i will do exactly the same as i did this time. i will disclose this meeting, even if it is a private meeting, because we have a principle on this. i will do the same as i did this time. mr barroso has followed the commission rules and his personal commitment. he has not lobbied the commission. i do not know, but i am sure that all of you here always disclose every time you meet somebody and you make notes on these discussions. it is a good principle, because we need to do whatever it takes to strengthen the confidence of our citizens towards the political decision-makers. in this house it is very important, because you are the real decision makers, together with the council. thank you very much for this discussion. i am always available if you want to continue this particular discussion or a discussion on other issues.
the debate is closed.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, you have asked the presidency to give you an update on the delisting by the ecofin council of eight jurisdictions – barbados, grenada, the republic of korea, macao, mongolia, panama, tunisia and the united arab emirates – removing them from the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. let me start by recalling the political process that led us to where we are now, as i believe this is very important. on 25 may 2016, the council agreed on the establishment of an ‘eu list of third-country non-cooperative jurisdictions’, and to explore coordinated defensive measures at eu level. since the start of the process we have therefore been talking about a european union list of non-cooperative jurisdictions, not about a blacklist of tax havens, contrary to what some may say. the council’s code of conduct group on business taxation was entrusted with the task of preparing the necessary elements for our decision. in november 2016, the council approved the process, geographical scope and screening criteria for this work. at the beginning of 2017, the code of conduct group then wrote to all the jurisdictions concerned to start the dialogues, and constituted expert panels to screen the jurisdictions concerned against the criteria. these panels identified deficiencies in most jurisdictions. some jurisdictions have chosen, up to now, not to cooperate with the european union, which is why they remain listed in annex i. defensive measures are already being applied towards these jurisdictions. however, most of the jurisdictions chose to cooperate with the european union and agreed, through commitment letters signed at a high political level, to take the necessary steps to address the concerns identified. this is illustrated by annex ii of the council conclusions of 5 december, which contained 47 jurisdictions. this shows that the approach chosen by the council has led to a constructive engagement with many jurisdictions around the world and that the initiative has so far been a success. the objective is not to name and shame, but to provoke effective changes through cooperation. the same process applied to the eight jurisdictions delisted on 23 january, but their commitment letters were not received in time to allow them to be included in annex ii at the 5 december ecofin council meeting. we take these commitments very seriously and we will closely monitor their implementation through the code of conduct group. regarding transparency (an issue on which i know that there is sometimes criticism), while the process can be diplomatically sensitive, appropriate transparency will nevertheless be ensured. as a follow-up to the bulgarian presidency’s publicly stated commitment to greater transparency, during the last ecofin council meeting, its current chair, mr goranov, sent a letter to the chair of the code of conduct group inviting her to request permission from the relevant jurisdictions to publish their commitment letters. the letter was discussed at the code of conduct meeting on 14 february and the group approved the text of the letter to the jurisdictions requesting consent to publish their commitment letters. the letter was sent on 22 february 2018. furthermore, the council conclusions and their annexes are very explicit on substance and process. we are also in the process of publishing the letters seeking commitments sent last autumn to jurisdictions. we have published on the council website consolidated versions of annexes i and ii of the 5 december conclusions. a six-monthly report by the code of conduct group on its activities concerning both member states and third countries is also available. the next one will be in june this year. i am looking forward to listening to your views. thank you very much for inviting us and for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am taking this debate, as you know, this evening on behalf of my friend commissioner moscovici, and this is a debate in an area in which the commission has made progress in only three years. three years ago, the idea of having a european list of tax havens was not a plausible one at all, and i’m sure you can recall the outcry when the commission simply published a compilation of national lists. parliament should also be very proud of the steps we have taken because they are also the result of the constant pressure that many of your members exerted, particularly through the recommendations of the special committee on tax rulings (taxe committee) and the committee on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana committee). this is pressure that you will continue to exert with the new taxe 3 committee, the terms of reference for which you will vote on tomorrow. among its other objectives, this committee will evaluate the process that led to the establishment of the list and its impact. it is important at parliament continues to follow this issue closely and i know that i don’t have to tell the honourable members to do so. parliament’s pressure is essential for our goal of promoting tax justice at international level. clearly the adoption of the list has not put an end to the existence of tax havens and i want to give you some more detail about that. in the negotiations leading to the conclusion of the list, 47 jurisdictions made written commitments to reform their tax systems in order to avoid being blacklisted. eight of the countries listed then quickly realised their interest in cooperating with the european union and committed themselves to reforming their tax legislation. the publication of the list has triggered positive momentum. i note that some people disliked the speed with which these commitments were achieved and the shrinking of the list. however, the blacklist is not an end in itself. the so-called grey list is more important for the credibility of the process. this list includes 55 third countries. we want these countries and territories to comply with our expectations in terms of transparency and good fiscal governance. the grey list places these countries in a process whereby they are required to abolish the aspects of their tax systems that encourage fraud before the end of the year, or by 2019 for developing countries. if they do not do so, they will be included in the blacklist. but the work is far from finished: our attention must now turn to the precise and uncompromising monitoring of the commitments undertaken by the third countries. we will have to continue to work hard with them to ensure that they change their legislation and meet the criteria to which they have committed. transparency will help us to move on from words to action, and that is why my colleague commissioner moscovici has called for the scope of the commitments given to be made public, for ngos, for citizens, for the media and, of course, for our national parliaments and the european parliament to see for themselves. it is important that everybody can scrutinise the implementation of the commitments made. that is why the commissioner asked the eu finance ministers at the ecofin council on 23 january this year to publish the commitments made by the states on the grey list. these commitments are contained in letters signed by the authorities of these countries. the member states are the drivers of this process and therefore the guarantors of its credibility and legitimacy. transparency must play a crucial role here and member states have undertaken to ask third countries for permission to publish these letters. we are confident that they will understand that it is in their interest to allow such transparency. member states have recognised that the commission should have a central role in the technical monitoring of these commitments. this is something that the commission takes very seriously. countries that have honoured their commitments will get off the grey list. countries that have not complied with them will return to blacklist. the process must be clear, precise and transparent. the legitimacy of this list also depends on the question of whether the threat of sanctions is posed. this is why commissioner moscovici has called for strong and credible sanctions to be agreed by member states to target financial flows through blacklisted countries. the european union will assume its responsibilities at its own level, especially when it comes to the use of european funds. the commission will soon issue guidelines on the use of these funds. finally, let me say a word about the absence of member states on these lists. this is a criticism of the process that has been consistently made, particularly by parliament, and there is a misunderstanding here. the purpose of drawing up a european list of tax havens was always to deal with external threats to member states’ tax bases. the aim was to reflect in our relations with our non-eu partners all the ambitious reforms that have been adopted over the past three years to make the european tax system fairer. member states were therefore never part of the evaluation process when drawing up these lists because they are already obliged to implement all of the provisions that have already been adopted by the european union, in particular our proposals on the automatic exchange of information and the measures under the anti-tax-avoidance directive, to combat tax evasion. of course, member states are not perfect and tax-optimisation practices continue within the european union. the abolition of these tax arrangements is a long-term task to which the commission is fully committed. that is the whole point of the discussions and harmonisation of the tax base for businesses, which were relaunched by commissioner moscovici in october 2016. at the same time, and for the first time, last november the commission called, in its recommendation on the euro area, for member states to adopt and implement measures aimed at combating aggressive tax planning. the commission can assure you that it will do everything in its power to ensure that the commitments made by third countries are effective, and that the results of this list on the ground match our ambitions.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i congratulated the commission when it finally managed, after years, to publish this list of tax jurisdictions that were not cooperating on tax transparency. now, only two months after the list was published, we find that proposals are being made to remove ourselves from this list on the basis of commitments made. we have a very great deal of experience with even european union member states making commitments and not fulfilling them. i think we're setting a dangerous precedent, which will be followed by other similar tax jurisdictions on the published list, who will come with letters of commitment to be removed from the list. it's been a lot of work to come up with this list, and i don't think it's the right solution for these countries. they must first implement the measures, stop once and for all this massive flow of funds that is taking place through tax havens.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate mr erdős and all those who contributed to the completion of this report. the beekeeping sector is one of the most vulnerable sectors in agriculture, whether we consider extreme weather events, the invasion of the european market with counterfeit honey products or the often irrational use of pesticides. with 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe dependent on bee pollination, we have the exact scale of the importance of this sector, not just for agriculture, but for the whole world. in this context, i appreciate that the following objectives must be achieved. one: continuing and increasing financial support for this sector beyond 2020. promote and support the cultivation of well-supported honey plants, as well as protein plants. effectively combat imports of honey from countries where the use of antibiotics is not regulated, as well as counterfeit honey. it is also necessary to step up innovation and research to identify pesticides that ensure sustainable agriculture and effective protection of the beekeeping sector. finally, i believe that the member states must understand the need to support and encourage forms of association in this sector so that beekeepers, through joint efforts, can create their own production, packaging and disposal capacities, while at the same time reducing the administrative burden associated with these activities. let's not forget that by saving bees, we save humanity.
madam president, beekeeping is one of the most important sectors of agriculture, but unfortunately also one of the most neglected, both by national and european authorities. the amounts granted through the national apiculture programmes are insufficient to be able to respond to the challenges faced by beekeepers. bees are extremely important contributors to pollination and biodiversity conservation, so the mortality of bees - caused by both climate change and insecticides - should not be ignored. i hope that in the future the commission will reconsider granting derogations for the use of these substances in predominantly bee-inhabited areas. i would also like to ask the commission to review the consumer information directive and the honey directive to ensure that only products containing 100% honey and not mixtures with honey can be marketed under this name.
madam president, there are school programmes at union level to encourage the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk, which allows member states to include other local specialities such as honey in these programmes. given the nutritional benefits of honey, the importance of beekeeping and the encouragement of the consumption of honey and bee products, i recommend the involvement of local beekeepers in these programmes and consider it necessary to include a new support system for beekeepers in the post-2020 cap. europe needs advanced early warning systems shared between farmers and beekeepers, foresters, scientists and veterinarians, on spraying and other forms of insecticide application, disease prevention and control, technologies that are not harmful to bees, and plant protection methods that minimise the quality of pollinators. i propose diversifying basic and vocational education programmes in beekeeping to encourage young people to choose the profession of beekeeper, to renew the generations in the sector.
madam president, i recently spoke to dozens of farmers in my region about the difficulties they face in carrying out their work. the major problem is caused by massive food imports, which deprive them of a market for domestic products. in 2017, according to ins, romania received food worth €5.1 billion, while exports were only worth a few hundred million euros. their difficulties stem from the fact that the price of the products imported and marketed in romania is well below cost. thus, an indigenous farmer who owns a pig farm, a slaughterhouse and his own trading space must sell his kilogram of meat at eur 3,5 to survive on the market. imported meat is sold in supermarkets for as little as 2.5 euros, well below cost anywhere in europe. without an effective fight against unfair competition, romania risks becoming a country without indigenous farmers and a huge market for food produced in other countries, in other words, unfair competition is a time bomb for romanian farmers.
madam president, please. in its report, the advisory committee of the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities identified a number of unresolved problems concerning the enforcement of the rights of national minorities living in romania. he deliberately lists the violations and official interference that characterize the daily lives of national minorities, with special reference to the continuous anti-hungarian incitement coming from the romanian-language media and some politicians. the findings of the e.t. are true, and for the past 10 years, we have been drawing attention to the problems that have been reported here in this house. the report undoubtedly points to the fact that romania has not solved the problems of national minorities and is far from being considered a benchmark for the enforcement of minority rights. there must be consequences to the et's report. it is time for the eu institutions to take up the matter, as it is clear that a member state is in serious breach of the obligations it assumed when it joined the eu to protect minorities.
madam president, equality between women and men, the fundamental principle of the european union, remains a subject of major importance, because women continue to suffer from inequality, they face multiple forms of discrimination. today i would like to draw attention to the role of women in the agricultural sector. romania ranks first in the european union in the share of the population working in agriculture and second in the share of women in this field. that's why farmer women are all the more appreciated the more they've managed to succeed in a man's world. at eu level, only 4.4% of the working population is employed in agriculture and only 30% of farms are managed by women. huge and sustained efforts are still needed to develop female entrepreneurship. i call on the european institutions to create more effective legislative levers to ensure that rural women and girls are supported for their entrepreneurial and innovative initiatives, which could provide additional income for their families.
madam president, although the negotiations on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union are progressing, there are still signs that the situation of citizens of member states in the united kingdom is not fully clarified. uncertainties persist, even after the agreements reached in recent months. there are over two million european citizens whose fate is now being decided and at least 200,000 of them are romanians. we're talking about people with families who have created a future in britain, or are working to build that future. if all the post-brexit issues are not clarified, we risk a forced exodus of these people with dramatic social and economic consequences. i am sounding the alarm to the european commission and the european council, and to the united kingdom, not to sacrifice the fate of millions of people in this political process of leaving the european union. we're talking about european citizens who have contributed a lot to the economic growth of both the uk and the european union.
mr president, banking union is an area where we have made quite a lot of progress and the european commission deserves congratulations for its persistence in this area. i'm sure we'll find a rational solution for guaranteeing people's bank deposits as well. what is worrying, however, is the way in which banking regulations are being applied by some european banks. it is disturbing that we learn from the united states of america about money laundering cases by european banks and not learn about it from the banking system of the european union, which we have created. let's not forget that a billion dollars disappeared from the republic of moldova through european banks, without us, here in the european union, paying attention and clarifying such cases.
mr president, commissioner, the report is welcome. i want to congratulate the rapporteur and i want to refer to something that the rapporteur said. of course, the financial crisis is still being felt. let's ask ourselves whether banks are taking too much risk or too little risk. but the reporter was also talking about big winnings in the banking system and bonuses and all kinds of awards. banks do not take risks for smes. smes still cannot take loans and are decapitalised. unfortunately, banks take risks by giving such above-average income to employees, and in the banking system, that's the biggest payoff. i think that what you have said must happen, commissioner, (of course progress has been made). it's not enough to have regulations here, it's very important to enforce them. how do we guarantee the deposits? there's a big gap in some banks between what a loan costs and what interest is paid on a deposit. and they're not really guaranteed to citizens. we have to protect, and i, as a member of the imco committee, think about how we protect consumers, how we protect smes, how we protect citizens. so this is where we need to make progress, because otherwise we're going to stall.
blue-card question. – it is always a pleasure to address a question to my friend, especially when he is talking about brexit. do you know, mr coburn, that in the city of london, which is so famous for its banks and the financial companies settled there, lots of european union directives on taxation have not yet been applied? it seems that the city is already a kind of fiscal paradise. after brexit it is probably going to become the biggest fiscal paradise in europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, following the increasing scandals related to the fight against tax evasion, we are learning that it is becoming increasingly difficult for member states to protect their national tax bases against erosion. in parallel, tax planning structures are becoming increasingly sophisticated and take advantage of the increased mobility of capital, but also of the lack of greater transparency in the european space. i believe that the fight against aggressive tax planning and the structures that practice this kind of activity cannot be carried out as long as they do not actually violate any legislative provision. i believe that the european institutions have a duty to implement sound and effective legislation throughout the union, which allows the financial interests of the member states to be protected first and the union as a whole second. until these preconditions are met by strict and transparent legislation, any exchange of information between member states will not be able to produce any tangible results.
madam president, direct taxation is not harmonised across the european union, which means that the freedom of eu citizens and their businesses can enable some taxpayers to avoid or evade tax in their country of residence. the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings should allow the member states to combat tax evasion, detect companies’ abusive tax practices and consequently take any necessary action against them. i support the commission proposal to improve and strengthen administrative cooperation between the member states’ tax administrations, and i consider it important for the member states to strengthen the financial and human resources of the tax administration. nevertheless, it is important to have strong and corresponding sanctions, which should be financial as well as granting access to the central depository. this could also strengthen the eu’s competitive policy.
member of the commission. madam president, i would first like to thank members for this very interesting exchange of views, which, above all, augurs well for the conclusion of this text, and it will be an important signal if this text is voted, as i can feel at the end of this debate, in a broadly cross-party way. we all - or almost all - share the conviction that the time has come for greater transparency in the practices of intermediaries. these have indeed worked in the shadows for too long. i recently used the bold, i agree, vampire image to describe certain tax evaders. but as bold as it was, the formula was not inaccurate: some people thrive as long as there is secrecy and they thrive only in secrecy. transparency is therefore the only effective weapon, the main weapon to counter tax evasion and tax evasion. this is the aim of our proposal on intermediaries. tax authorities - i am convinced - need this additional source of information, otherwise they would not be able to identify a particular device during the audit of a company without having a global view. i believe that this new proposal will greatly help the tax authorities to improve their effectiveness in combating tax evasion schemes. i believe that it represents a new step in supporting fairness in the area of taxation. once adopted, this directive will ensure a level playing field. it will provide greater security for intermediaries who respect the spirit and the letter of our legislation and it will make life very difficult for those who do not. at present, we recognise that it can be difficult for some companies that do not practice tax planning to compete with multinationals that use aggressive tax regimes to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. this is all the more unfair as it also means that honest taxpayers have to pay more than their fair share to make up for the shortfall and to ensure the financing of public services and common goods that our fellow citizens need. i have pledged to fight this fight until the end of my mandate and i will do so, because from day one my objective and that of this commission has been to ensure that all taxpayers, citizens and businesses, are on an equal footing, that no one is unduly favoured. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again on his excellent work, which i believe will be the basis for a very broad approval of your assembly, which will be a very strong political signal of will and which i look forward to very much. i thank you for your attention and for this new evidence of support for what the commission has been doing since november 2014 - perhaps at its own pace, and this pace is also that of public decision-making - but with a total determination, which we share, and i believe it is for the good of all.
in writing. the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation for transnational arrangements is the main tool available to member states to prevent and detect tax evasion and tax evasion. the european commission's initiative in this regard is therefore welcome. i think that, in this case too, we need to have a list of tax jurisdictions that do not want to cooperate in this area and, if necessary, introduce the necessary sanctions. tax evasion and avoidance through all kinds of practices must be stopped in the general interest of citizens.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, from 2014 to 2017 – in four years – we have seen 45 big terrorist attacks in europe that caused hundreds of victims. this situation cannot continue, commissioner. the security of eu citizens has to become the first priority of the european union’s specialised institutions. i believe that law enforcement and prevention strategy are important, both among eu member states and in the european union’s external relations. the fight against daesh and al-qaeda should remain at the top of the security agenda in europe, but of course in the middle east as well, and not be diverted, especially in the middle east, to pursuing particular political and sectarian agendas of the regional actors. i strongly believe that, in our fight against terrorists, we need to focus our efforts on police and judicial cooperation and on exchanging information and data and good practices so as to strengthen synergies in the global … (the president cut off the speaker)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i agree with what you have said in principle. but you said, among other things, that it was our fault, that we didn't do enough. can you tell us what parliament, the european union, the commission should do to put an end to the financing of terrorism and acts of terrorism? because it's good to criticize, but also to come up with solutions.
in writing. – i welcome the recommendation on the eu priorities for the 62nd session of the un commission on the status of women and the provisions provided within. i strongly share the opinion that we have to put the spotlight on the empowerment of rural women, as they are often the primary care providers in their families and communities. however, they are confronting numerous difficulties in accessing childcare and elderly care for their families, which generates a disproportionate burden on women and hampers their integration into the labour market. finally, as also pointed out in the report, the fifth un sustainable development goal (sdg5) consists in achieving gender equality and empowering all women and girls throughout the world. therefore, the union and its member states must step up their efforts and be at the forefront of the empowerment of women and girls. i would remind you that we have a duty to work towards the achievement of full gender equality in the union, and to promote this goal in all external relations.
in writing. gender equality and women's rights are things we discuss at european and national level, and yet in this century we still have discrimination against women, especially in rural areas. as was mentioned in today's debate, 75 per cent of the poor live in rural areas. i congratulate the reporters, but i think we're not going to solve this gender equality problem unless we invest in education, especially in rural areas. then we should have specific funding measures for women who want to develop a business, but also for women's specific health care. i support the report, but it is important to monitor the implementation of the rules, rules and regulations approved at european and national level.
in writing. – gender inequality poses serious threats to achieving a sustainable economy and reaching the goal of a non-discriminatory society. moreover, the consequences of gender inequality are as serious as they are diverse, affecting girls and women in numerous ways, and especially women from rural areas. figures show that the work of women from rural areas is often paid less than the work of men for the same output, and they encounter difficulties in getting access to adequate public health services. this situation is unacceptable for the europe of the 21st century and calls for immediate action, which is why i support the recommendation of the european parliament to the council on the eu priorities for the 62nd session of the un commission on the status of women. we need to focus more on the challenges women from rural areas face, in all member states, and the key eu priorities to increase the participation of women to media, information and communication technology are vital for the advancement and empowerment of women. my view is that we must make extra, but concrete, efforts to achieve gender equality and i fully support the use of digital technology as an instrument to sustain these efforts.
madam president, in 2017 alone, multinational companies exported over 600 billion euros in profits. tax havens benefit from the increased mobility of capital and persons in the internal market. we've gotten to the point where we have agreements that facilitate cross-border tax evasion and allow individuals and corporations to move their profits to tax havens. if the tax authorities won't cooperate with each other, then we won't solve this situation. i also recommend that tax authorities use the millions of documents and information that investigative journalists have uncovered -- and i mean lux, panama, the paradise papers, the azerbaijan laundromat, and so on -- because they all refer to tax havens and identify politicians or other people who have hidden their money there. so states can recover their money using this information.
madam president, on monday, slovak journalist ján kuciak and his fiancée, marina, were shot. they were only 27 years old. ján was an investigative journalist and worked with other colleagues investigating cross-border crimes related to drugs and links to slovakia. in october, daphne caruana galizia was blown up by a bomb. we have two murders of investigative journalists, violent, in the heart of europe. why would you do that? because those journalists stood firm, because they wanted to tell the world the truth about the corrupt people who govern us and all the evils and illegalities they commit and paid with their lives. basically, the mob is organized to eliminate anyone who speaks freely and exposes their corruption. very briefly, i would like to say that we need to do a fact-finding mission in slovakia, as we did in malta.
i was happy to support this report by my colleagues, who have put it forward on their own initiative. at first glance, it may seem that the subject of beekeeping is a topic that is marginal. no way that's true. as my colleagues have already said, the impact of this sector on the whole of agricultural policy is extremely important, not only in terms of the share and the employment it provides to our fellow citizens, but also because pollination is a key factor that bees provide. it is good that the report describes current problems ranging from, say, bee diseases, which lead to the destruction of bee colonies, to problems associated with the single market. the question of smuggling products into europe that are called honey and are not honey is, i think, a problem that the eu needs to address. it should be dealt with by the eu's responsible bodies, the european commission should deal with it. i was very surprised to learn that honey is the second- or third-most counterfeited commodity on the market. it's good that the message was received.
madam president, please. union honey producers are in a rather unfair situation, as their activities are not sufficiently supported by the current union agricultural policy and they also have to deal with a significant amount of counterfeit honey on the internal market. this counterfeit quantity is largely sourced from non-eu countries and not only makes our producers unable to produce, but also deceives consumers. first of all, we need to create favourable conditions for our own producers in order to ensure that eu consumers have access to healthy and quality honey, and we need to change the current unfair competition situation. to this end, the common agricultural policy post-2020 should pay particular attention to honey producers, for whom a new system of direct support and tax exemptions should be introduced. eu citizens have a right to know the proportion of honey from european producers in the products they buy as honey and the labelling of products should be adapted accordingly.
madam president, this is not fair. we waited and we prepared to speak and i think you should stay until the end. there are two more files for which we prepared to speak. it is less than ten minutes. it is on the list and now you cancel it. really it is not fair for us.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, our group has discussed this and we propose that this debate be held, if necessary, in april, otherwise everything is improvised. we can't come up with a solid resolution by thursday.
mr president, it is clear that the position of secretary-general of the commission is extremely important. it must ensure the smooth functioning of the services, balance, exchange of information between the directorates-general, exchange of information with parliament and, above all, the implementation of the political decisions of the college of commissioners, without interfering with, or deviating in any way from, those political decisions. the official is supposed to implement political decisions, not have opinions, after all. that is why i believe that the procedure must be tailored, that it must be a very transparent procedure, that it must encourage the participation of a large number of officials, so that a person can be chosen who is best suited for this post. only in this way does the commission prove its credibility and i think that the intervention of the committee on budgetary control is very welcome in this case.
madam president, commissioner, you have given some figures and, yes, it is frightening to see that over 55% of women are harassed or suffer violence in the family or at work. my problem is whether we really know what the number is, because so many women endure violence and are afraid to speak out. they're afraid just to avoid being further assaulted. 2017 was the year of violence, we have an improvement over previous years. it's very important that we get to the point. i think that, in fact, the cause of violence is education, and i think that we are not doing enough, in any of the member states, for education, especially education in rural areas, where women, especially, endure violence. and then we have another problem: in many member states we have no protection for women, for victims, we have no shelters, there is no action taken against men who commit violence against women. so these are the things and i think we have to go with concrete measures to solve them. it's not enough to ratify. we have enough directives, laws, regulations that don't apply. women's lives are non-negotiable and no one should have to endure violence anymore. that is why we must be united, all of europe, to combat violence against women.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission very much welcomes the agreement reached on this proposal in december here in strasbourg. i want to thank parliament, particularly the rapporteur, mr lundgren, and the committee on transport and tourism as well as the council for their constructive and positive approach that allowed reaching a compromise so quickly. i am particularly pleased that in the negotiations all sides followed the rationale and the key objective of the commission’s proposal, primarily to strengthen the safety on our roads. we should always keep in mind, why we are doing all this. every year, too many families have to deal with the terrible effects of the severe injuries inflicted to a quarter of a million people because of traffic accidents. even worse, every year more than 25 000 people die on eu roads. that is a bus load every day. the commission is strongly engaged with the member states and also with you, in the parliament, to turn this situation around and stop this silent killer on our roads. this piece of legislation will be another important element in the reinvigorated road safety framework we are putting in place. we all agree that it is imperative that we have a high level of standards and requirements when it comes to professional qualifications of those that drive heavy goods vehicles (hgvs). the impact of those crashes are very severe. our rules are already good, but they certainly will be further improved. the agreement we have reached on this proposal certainly brings these necessary changes that will make the regime even more effective. in brief, we are satisfied that in the future our system for professional qualifications will bring the following four key benefits: first, training of professional drivers will have a much stronger road safety dimension to it, with a particular emphasis on how to take care of vulnerable road users; second, the mutual recognition of training across the eu is facilitated for the benefit of drivers and companies; third, the content and organisation of the training will be updated to take into account the ongoing technological developments and new realities such as distraction; and fourth, i also welcome the electronic exchange of information, which will facilitate the mobility of drivers and the enforcement of the training obligations. congratulations on arriving at such a good compromise and i look forward to a positive vote in the plenary tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur of the s&d group for the amendment of the two directives on initial qualification and periodic training of drivers and on driving licences, i would like to stress from the outset the good cooperation with the rapporteur, with the rapporteurs and with the commission. we know it was a vote, but we got to the trilogy. after the negotiations and the vote in the tran committee of some compromises that qualified the original proposal of the european commission, at the trilogue the commission showed understanding of our proposals and together we managed to convince the council, which at first did not agree with our point of view. that is why, commissioner, i want to thank you for the representatives you sent to our negotiation. regular driver training is extremely important, not only for transport safety, but also for equal treatment in the labour market, in the internal labour market; we know that there is labour mobility. mutual recognition of qualifications is also important and, let us not forget, it reduces costs, ultimately, for companies, especially small companies. i am glad that the possibility of combining different forms of courses and e-learning, but also practical courses, to ensure transport safety was accepted and voted in the tran committee and in plenary, and in particular, we had amendments that were accepted relating to training on the transport of dangerous goods, the transport of animals, transport in adverse weather conditions. we have reached a consensus on the exemption of certain types of transport, and here i personally thought particularly of those who do not have a basic transport activity and who work in rural areas. i want to thank you for your understanding and i believe that this report will bring a plus for the internal transport market.
madam president, in the european union there are large disparities in the income and opportunities of the regions. a number of 47 regions in 8 member states were classified as either low growth or low income regions, differentiated by their level of gdp per capita. in many of these regions, agriculture remains an important economic factor and a key source of income. the common agricultural policy is therefore a key financing instrument for boosting economic growth and makes an important contribution to stimulating sustainable growth and job creation, while contributing to the preservation of rural areas and combating rural depopulation. rural development funds are also of particular importance in boosting the competitiveness of these regions through tailor-made projects and bottom-up approaches. i therefore consider the contribution of local action groups to the development of local strategies, support for stakeholder networking and the validation and approval of individual leader projects to be important and welcome.
madam president, commissioner, today's report shows a reality - we have, and it is good that we recognize, less developed regions. we even have poor regions, if we're being honest. what is to be done? i think the report has shown important lines, which we must follow, but i think the conclusion today, after the debate on the report and i hope it will be voted, is that we must keep cohesion funds beyond 2020. we haven't gotten to the point where we don't have disparities in the european union, we have a poor population, we have rural areas where per capita income is very low. the responsibility is obviously very great - that of the member states, regional leaders and local administration - but i believe that, as an example of good practice, what you are already doing, commissioner, must continue, if we are to be able to create the same living conditions in the european area.
madam president, commissioner, regions with significant development gaps and those with low incomes face common challenges, namely lower productivity, employment and school attendance rates than in other regions. the constant decline in the rural population, caused in particular by the migration of young people and skilled labour to more attractive regions, has also mainly generated an acute shortage of workers in the agricultural sector. i believe that reducing the existing gaps implies support measures to increase connectivity, increase access to markets, provide basic services in rural regions, and professional and financial counselling services. policies should also focus on attracting young people to agriculture, while prioritising investment in basic infrastructure. however, i would draw attention to the consequences that brexit may have on the regions that are left behind, as possible funding cuts will be devastating because of the vulnerabilities these areas face.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear rapporteur michela giuffrida, first of all i would like to congratulate you as rapporteur, but also the members of the committee on regional development (regi) for this initiative on this report. the discussion i heard here in parliament is very meaningful to me. firstly, because most of you know that lagging regions were one of my top priorities since i became commissioner so i think it is very important to underline that in the treaty we have this goal to fill the gaps to reduce disparities, and that is why we are creating these studies on lagging regions to see why so many regions are still stagnating despite the economic growth, despite the fact that we have lower unemployment. we still have regions which are not growing and we do not see results in creating jobs and growth. i very much welcome the main finding of these reports. it favourably echoes what the commission strives to underline in its own report on lagging regions and, after listening to the debate, i think overall we share the same views that the social and economic situation of these lagging regions is multi—faceted. it cannot be addressed through a one—size—fits—all policy. on the contrary, as you said here, it requires regionally—differentiated investments and policy responses. this is why, as you know, in the analysis carried out, two groups of lagging regions were identified: low-income regions, mostly in the eastern periphery of the european union, and low-growth regions in southern europe. the pilot project we launched in parallel to complement the analytical strength, namely in test regions in poland and in romania, have allowed us to propose hands-on solutions to tackle structural bottlenecks. in poland, the ‘catching up’ region initiative has helped, for example, to improve the conditions for starting a business, the management of financial instruments, or special planning practices. in romania, tailor—made specialisation strategies and action plans were elaborated, as well as project pipelines in sectors like biomedicine or agro—food. i have followed closely all the discussions regi committee on our report and on the results of the pilot project. i know that there was a heated debate on our recommendation to strengthen the link between european structural and investment funds and the european semester. i understand very well that some of you may think that we are demanding too much but, on the other hand, we all know that challenges in the quality of governance hinder the performance of public investments. so if we manage to ensure a link with the european semester, which is more proportionate and more operational, i believe it will help foster the essential structural changes in the areas which have been targeted with our pilot actions, such as business environment, innovation ecosystems, vocational education or training. this also means going towards a structural reform system based on incentives. for the next multiannual financial framework we are reflecting on a mechanism which would provide positive incentives to the member states. in the meantime, the work continues. the pilot actions tested in some regions, as i said, will be extended this year to other regions of both countries and in other countries. i fully agree with you that we need more cohesion than ever because, as i said, reducing disparities is our main goal. to the idea that you raised, i do not need to underline once again my support for the equal development of all the regions. i fully agree that we are side by side with all the regions. we were with the island of lesbos, with madeira, after the earthquake in italy, so we are with the solidarity fund wherever it is needed. you raised a point about emu and taxes which is not under my responsibility, but i stand ready to come to parliament every time to provide information on the outcome of the actions we have on the ground everywhere in europe in all the 290 regions.
in writing. i believe that cohesion policy must play a key role in promoting the harmonious development of the union as a whole by reducing disparities between the levels of development of the different regions. most of romania is among the 47 backward regions identified in the european commission's report. to ensure the development of these areas, specific measures and programmes are needed, adapted to each region, taking into account subregional trends and disparities. in this respect, the european commission must abandon the imposition of macroeconomic conditionalities and structural reforms, and gdp per capita must remain the main indicator for the allocation of funds under cohesion policy, as regions lagging behind in development already face difficulties in accessing funding, as well as bureaucratic and administrative delays that prevent the absorption of eu funds.
in writing. it is well known that there are regions in the eu that are lagging behind in their development (i.e. 'low growth regions' and 'low income regions'), due to the negative impact on regional economic growth of the prolonged economic and financial crisis. this is despite the fact that cohesion policy has contributed about a third of the eu budget to boost growth and employment and reduce disparities between eu regions. in this context, an analysis of regional and national co-financing under the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and its impact on national deficits is required. regions lagging behind in development are often characterised by a lack of structural reforms, with economic stagnation caused by declining public and private investment. we also agree that these regions often face an exodus of young and skilled labour, both of which are resources needed for the economic and social revitalization of the respective areas, making these regions even less attractive in terms of employment and investment.
madam president, one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today in terms of sustainable development, health and the global economy is global warming. without the involvement of all actors at local and regional level, states will not be able to meet their cop 21 commitments. the credibility of the commitments made by the parties will depend on the real and firm involvement of cities and regions, as well as businesses and investors. in this context, i believe that the european union and the member states should pay greater attention to the covenant of mayors, maintaining this kind of cooperation in the long term, until 2030 or even 2050, in order to boost the momentum of the 6 500 signatory european cities and regions that have committed to meet and even exceed the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. on the other hand, it should be stressed that the regions and cities involved in the implementation of cop 21 need decisive and innovative investments, oriented towards sustainable projects, especially in the field of energy. .. (the speaker was interrupted by the chairman)
madam president, commissioner, i do not know if this was the intention, but the report comes very well after the other report we have discussed. the role of regions and cities in the implementation of the paris agreement cannot be disputed, just as we cannot contest climate change. citizens are ultimately bearing the consequences of climate change. that's why i think we need to put a lot of emphasis on environmental education. it has been said here, of course, that local and regional authorities have an important role to play, but i think that there should be specific budgetary chapters for the education of citizens. on the other hand, the education system needs to include knowledge about global warming, about climate change. without an education of the citizens, we will not be able to achieve very good results. the use of renewable energy is just one of many measures that must be taken. we have others - afforestation, the prohibition of deforestation are indispensable measures. then innovation and research are needed to have clean technologies. and that's why i see the link with developing poorer regions, because that's where the violation, the possible violation, of the paris agreement is happening.
madam president, today i will present to you a message received from a european citizen, florin coman, a student in gorj county, romania, who is concerned about the state of education and the lack of vocational schools. quote: "everyone blames the youth for the way the country is going. we're told we're lazy, millennial, snowflakes, and i don't know how. but is it our fault that we are like this? we're not all born into elite families, and we're not all geniuses. what opportunities does our country offer us? we go to europe to do unskilled work because at home we have only one or two colleges, but vocational schools. parents push their kids to go to college to be in the world, but they also end up in menial jobs. i would like to know why you, the leaders of the country and of europe, do not recognize the shortcomings in education and treat them by considering the real needs that we have? i'm finished. i hope to receive and share more and more of these messages, because we must not forget that the european union is for and about its citizens.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for sitting here in parliament at such a late hour to listen to our political statements and, i hope, to deliver the message. i want to speak, i do not know how many times, in my political declaration, about the treaty provision on the free movement of workers, on the equal treatment of european citizens. but are these things really happening? last week i drove to graz, austria, from the city of timisoara in western romania. we could see lines of trucks for tens of kilometers waiting at the border control at the entrance to hungary, then at the entrance to austria. citizens and transport companies in my country are discriminated against, sitting for days or even weeks behind the wheel and sleeping in the cab. on the other hand, we're talking here in the european parliament, and countries like germany, france and belgium are fining drivers who sleep in the cabs in the parking lot. but is spending a week at the border and sleeping in the cabin better social conditions? i think we need an answer and i want to know why romania is not in schengen, although for years it has technically met all the conditions? is this just political marginalization?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for about four months romania has been going through an acute medical crisis due to the lack of immunoglobulin on the market. this crisis, an artificial one, produced by the manufacturers, importers and distributors of immunoglobulin, is endangering the lives of some 5 000 patients. fortunately, the short-term solution was found by activating the civil protection mechanism at european level. here i must highlight the benefit of being a member of the european union, which gives a chance of life to romanian patients affected by the immunoglobulin crisis. on the other hand, this crisis should make us europeans think and ask ourselves whether we should not, at european level, review the relationship between the european union and the pharmaceutical companies, as well as the rules of operation of manufacturers and distributors. it is unacceptable that, with the european union budget supporting pharmaceutical research by hundreds of millions of euros a year, pharmaceutical companies should blackmail national governments by making the right to life of patients a condition for maximising their profits.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, there are so many ties between the european union and the uk; the uk and the european union are so intertwined. who is going to pay all these costs of brexit if the uk decides one day to come back to the european union? are you, the brexiteers, going to pay them?
chief negotiator for brexit. mr president tajani, mr president juncker, i thank you for allowing me to speak at the end of this debate, which we have of course listened to very attentively. madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have you here to take stock. the british people, by a majority, have sovereignly chosen to leave the european union. it's a choice we regret, it's a choice we respect. now we're putting it into practice. brexit means brexit. but at this point i would like to say two things beforehand that everyone here and elsewhere should understand and bear in mind. first, on the united kingdom, which has chosen to leave the union: we have had, i have always had, and we will keep until the end, under all circumstances and in all circumstances, for this country its culture, its people, its history, solidarity with ours in the most tragic moments, its diplomacy, the respect due to a great country, a friendly country and an ally. secondly, it is important that everyone understands that in this extraordinary, complex, extraordinarily complex negotiation, it is our responsibility, yours, that of the council and, of course, that of the commission under president juncker, to preserve, for the future and for the long term, what we are, our union, our values, our identity, our single market, our common policies. none of this, ladies and gentlemen, none of this is negotiable, and we are responsible for it. every day - just a little personal word in the mission entrusted to me at the very beginning by president juncker, and which you are accompanying, ladies and gentlemen - i keep in mind a phrase of a french statesman whom i respected very much, pierre mendès france, who said in a speech, 'never sacrifice the future to the present'. mr hökmark and mrs mcguinness have also said this very strongly. as we are in this negotiation, at the end of this debate, i want to share with you three messages. first, we need to get things in order, as we have done from the start, to prepare and build an ambitious new partnership with the uk: the precondition - the prerequisite - is to organise its withdrawal in an orderly rather than a disorderly way. this was emphasized by roberto gualtieri. under the leadership of president juncker, whom i thank once again for his confidence, the commission, which is doing its job, which is doing the work you have entrusted to it, presented this comprehensive draft treaty two weeks ago. things are clear now, we can get our hands on them. the aim of this comprehensive draft treaty proposal is to speed up and facilitate the discussion with the british by working on a legal text. as danuta hübner and president juncker have said very well, time is very short. it is short for the negotiation of the withdrawal agreement, it will be short for the negotiation of any future relationship. it is also short - let me emphasise this point - for the preparation we need to make in each of our countries and together with the stakeholders to prepare for the inevitable consequences of brexit, which the british people have chosen. this preparation - and i thank him for this - is also being carried out at commission level by our secretary-general, martin selmayr. we're running out of time. we have particular points of concern about this text, which you have mentioned in your speeches and which you, mr verhofstadt, mention in this resolution. of course, our common priority is citizens first. we will remain vigilant until the end - that is, until the ratification of this withdrawal agreement - on the assurances we obtained in the joint report in december and on the effective implementation of all rights through simple and inexpensive procedures. mrs miranda, you have just mentioned, as have gabriele zimmer, barbara spinelli, jill evans and josef weidenholzer, this priority issue of the rights of british citizens who live and work and who have chosen to live and work in one of our 27 countries, and, of course, of the three and a half million europeans, including many students, who live and work in the united kingdom. we also expect the uk to make a genuine commitment and progress in the coming days on all other issues, such as the governance of the euratom agreement. i could give many examples of the issues that we have not fully negotiated, on which we have not yet agreed, which are part of all the issues of separation and which are essential to an orderly withdrawal. this obviously also applies to the transition. we accept - the european leaders have accepted, you have accepted - the uk government's request, put forward by theresa may, to include a transition period in the withdrawal agreement. of course, during this short transitional period, all the union rules will have to be applied without distinction, in compliance with article 50. for example, a citizen who arrives during this transition period - mercedes bresso touched on this point - will have to enjoy the same rights as those who arrived before brexit day. there is a second point, which is obviously our future partnership, which is mentioned in your resolution. in this text you outline the architecture and content of what this ambitious partnership with the united kingdom could be, as the european council will do in a few days' time, under the chairmanship of donald tusk. guy verhofstadt spoke of the future association with this great country around four pillars, and i find myself in this architecture that you propose. first, our business relationship. mr sulík was referring to the exchange earlier. it is obvious that we must regulate trade and continue to trade with the united kingdom, including in this trade relationship - as mr vandenkendelaere, mr millán mon and mrs miranda have mentioned - a balanced agreement on the fisheries issue. secondly, thematic cooperation. mr lópez aguilar was talking about aviation, mr peter van dalen was talking about research or universities - i could quote erasmus. we will establish, in a different regulatory financial framework from today's, since the united kingdom has chosen to no longer be in the union, a framework of cooperation to maintain in the common interest this work with the british. thirdly, cooperation in the fields of justice, home affairs, police and judicial cooperation and, lastly, of course, with this great country, a strategic partnership in foreign policy, security and defence. as far as the first pillar, economic cooperation, is concerned, all the models of cooperation with third countries are still on the table at the moment. they're available. we are open for business. it is the uk that is closing doors. i listened carefully to theresa may's speech at the mansion house, which confirms the doors that the uk is objectively closing itself by confirming red lines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not affected by the introduction of the single market. esteban gonzález pons is also there. we have to find regulatory and commercial autonomy, as many of you have said. never again to be bound by the court of justice, those are the red lines that the united kingdom confirms. we take note of that, but then we have to face the obvious. we cannot at the same time want the status of a third country and at the same time claim the advantages that belong to the union and only to the union, as philippe lamberts has said. we cannot and will not use the internal market à la carte - mr lenaers said it earlier or mr danti said it - when it is an integrated ecosystem and the four freedoms, including freedom of movement, are indivisible and inseparable. you cannot want to participate in our agencies without the legal commitment to adopt and apply eu law and the jurisdiction of the court of justice. mutual recognition of rules and standards cannot and will not be sought from outside, whereas this can only be based on trust, i.e. a common law, coherent supervision and a single jurisdiction. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, it is a rather astonishing idea to think that the 27 member states of the union and your parliament could somehow accept convergence when the united kingdom wishes to do so, while at the same time allowing it to diverge when it is a matter of creating a comparative advantage for itself. to coin a phrase, it's time to face up to the hard facts. mr ferreira, mr lange and mrs scott cato, among others, raised the question of standards in the united kingdom - it will be a sovereign third country - and then also in our own country. this is a very important point and it is a question i asked a few weeks ago and for which we have not yet received a reply from the united kingdom. the united kingdom chooses to leave the union, chooses to leave the single market and the customs union. we'll take note of that. does he also want to leave or move away from our regulatory model, the very one we have patiently built together with you and you with us for 44 years? a regulatory model that is not just a matter of norms, standards or laws, behind which there are in fact societal choices that we have made together: the social market economy, social protection, security and certain food models, financial regulation. i could give you other examples of the common company choices we made at 28 and which are reflected and consolidated by this regulatory model. and this is a very important question. does the united kingdom also want to move away from this model which we have built with it and embark on the path of regulatory competition, or even dumping, against us? this is not only an important issue - i say this in passing - for the economy itself, for citizens and consumers. it is also very important for the political conditions for ratifying any future agreement on relations between us and the united kingdom, because on that day the european parliament will have to decide, the council will have to decide, but also the 27 national parliaments and perhaps even some regional parliaments will have to decide unanimously. and i recommend that on this question of divergence, or even the risk of dumping, we should be very attentive, from now on, to the conditions of this ratification. finally - and this is my last point - there is the question of ireland at the crossroads, at the junction of what we are, the european union, and what brexit represents and means. mrs mcguinness has made this point very forcefully. everyone knows that the union has played its part, has taken its place for dialogue and peace in ireland, for bringing together and giving a common horizon, the conditions for stability and dialogue between communities that were once divided. the union is not responsible for the consequences of brexit, but it is responsible for this cooperation, stability and common future. that is why, as many have wished, a strong and lasting agreement on brexit - listen to me - on orderly withdrawal must include a strong and lasting solution for ireland and for northern ireland. this is the meaning of the protocol we have proposed in this draft withdrawal agreement. this option, this third option which we have put into operation, is part of the joint commitments between us and the united kingdom at the highest level, that of theresa may, president juncker and donald tusk. and this document is merely implementing one of the options in the joint report of december. i have already told you, mrs dodds, when we met in my office a few days ago, and i also tell mr nicholson, whom i always listen to carefully, that she is one of the options we have decided to study in order to find concrete solutions. it is our responsibility to set out in operational terms how we will avoid a hard border on the island of ireland in the absence of other solutions and taking into account the decision of the united kingdom to leave the single market and the customs union. and i will not stop repeating that this backstop solution, one of the three, we are prepared to replace it with any other better solution which the british government may propose. this is a point that was raised earlier by mr carthy or richard corbett. in conclusion, mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i simply want to confirm that the strength and clarity of the union's position, our unity on the withdrawal issues, as well as on the future, is what makes us strong in this negotiation. obviously, this clarity and solidity would not be possible without the trust you place in our negotiating team and your negotiating team and we will continue to work as i said to the brexit steering group in guy verhofstadt, in a permanent attitude of dialogue and transparency with you. i would like to thank you, mr president, and guy verhofstadt and each of the members of the brexit steering group, the group chairmen and committee chairmen, and your coordinators, for the quality and sincerity of our work together and i believe that the resolution you are about to adopt is essential to the success of the steps we have before us.
acting president of the council. mr president, since we share the same view on brexit, following mr barnier's speech in french, i will make my concluding remarks in french as well. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress once again that the presidency believes that the unity of the union of 27 and of our institutions is essential for the success of the negotiations. we look forward to receiving tomorrow the new resolution from parliament which, i am sure, like the previous ones, will make a useful contribution to the process. we would like to reiterate our support for the european commission's negotiating team and also for the chief negotiator, mr barnier. we commit ourselves to continue our discussions with parliament and the brexit steering group during the negotiations in order to achieve the best possible deal for the union and its citizens.
in writing. i would first like to acknowledge the outstanding efforts made by eu representative michel barnier and his team in the brexit negotiations and to continue to provide him with support and solidarity, particularly in defending citizens' rights and respecting the uk's legal commitments to contribute to the eu budget. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of post-brexit respecting both the rights of british citizens within the european union and the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom equally and of ensuring bilaterally that no citizen is deprived of rights. the consequences of this political decision must not have irreversible effects on those we represent, and the rights of citizens after withdrawal must be clearly specified and fully respected by the authorities of both parties, in particular with regard to vulnerable persons. i believe in a strong eu-uk partnership even after withdrawal, with the union and the uk demonstrating that they can take much more sustainable, effective and efficient action together than separately.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, presidents of the parliament, the commission and the council, brexit is a sad discussion, because one of the big states decided by referendum and with a stubborn government to leave the european union. the exit negotiations have been going on for two years, and european citizens are concerned about two things: the respect for the rights of european citizens in the uk and the trade agreements. mr michel barnier, you are the eu negotiator and you have a major responsibility. please give us a clear message: will the rights of citizens in the uk be respected or not? will the trade agreements take into account the protection of the internal market by imposing standards for similar products in trade? when will the citizens and companies that trade with the eu know how the eu works with the uk, which will become a third party? the council and the commission have a responsibility to bring brexit to a swift conclusion without negative effects on eu citizens and businesses.
in writing. we must be uncompromising about the rights of european citizens in the context of brexit and the future eu-uk relationship; this resolution recognizes this. we have made progress in this respect, in particular by including the future spouses in the commission's draft agreement. however, the fight will not stop here. this resolution gives its consent to the conclusion by the eu of a brexit agreement and a transition period in october 2018; until then, it will be our duty to protect the rights of all european citizens. as meps, we represent the interests of the european people, and therefore also those of the citizens of the united kingdom until the united kingdom formally withdraws. the right of residence and movement of european citizens in the uk after brexit will be the main issue if the uk is to have access to the european market. the right of uk citizens living in an eu country to move freely within the eu will also have to be maintained. we will have these interests at heart even as we debate the fate of ireland, which is now the main obstacle to an agreement that serves the interests and safeguards the rights of as many people as possible.
in writing. the uk government has set its red lines: exit from the single market and customs union. the eu, for its part, has red lines: the integrity of the single market and the customs union. with red lines on both sides, it is difficult to reach an agreement on the future of eu-uk relations that we all want, which is to say, free trade barriers and free movement of european and british citizens. flexibility is needed on both sides to move the negotiations forward. unfortunately, between these red lines, the question of the future relationship between northern ireland and ireland has still not been resolved.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this council meeting is certainly very important. a lot of colleagues here have said, i think we need to define what the european union wants to be. mr juncker said: perfecting the internal market, interconnectivity. very well, but we still have first-class countries, second-class countries, third-class citizens, we have double-standard products. are we clarifying what the future of the european union is? we have a brexit to negotiate. the topics of the summit are very important. the problem is, it's like sewing a suit without knowing its size. we need to know what we want in the future and, mr timmermans, with all due respect, please stop being so double-talk. go to our states and say something to the citizens, come here and say something else. it's the case of romania, where you went and said something, last night at libe, again nominating romania as a country that does not respect the rule of law. tell us what we are not respecting, because otherwise the citizens are dissatisfied and we will surely develop euroscepticism.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, in reaction to what was said i have a few remarks. first of all, i want to say something about the poisoning of people in salisbury. just try to get your mind around this: in salisbury, people have been poisoned by a novichok nerve agent, which is a substance that is banned under a un convention. a nerve gas was actively used against civilians in one of our member states. i believe that the european council should, in clear terms, express its full solidarity with the british people and the british government in addressing this issue. i believe it is of the utmost importance that those who are responsible for what has happened see very clearly that there is unequivocal, unwavering and very strong european solidarity, so that those responsible are really punished for what they did. we cannot have nerve gas being used in our societies. this should be addressed by all of us and not just left to prime minister may and the british government. it is a collective european responsibility, including under the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) rules. i want to thank your parliament, madam president, for its clear support for my words right now because it will also send a clear message to all those involved and to the european council next week. yesterday, i was at dillinger hütte, in saarland, to meet with representatives of the european steel industry from saarland, from lorraine and from luxembourg – a very competitive steel industry, able to innovate, able to create green steel in the future, to make sure that steel remains an essential element of the european economy, in a way that is sustainable. of course, people there were extremely worried about the measures announced by president trump. i had a very clear message for the people there and i want to repeat it today: the commission is working day and night to convince our american partners that there are no grounds for these measures. we are security partners. how on earth could european steel be a threat to american security? it is simply impossible, so there are no grounds for these measures. we hope we can convince our american partners of this, but if that fails, if we cannot convince them and they persist in this, the commission will act with the support of the member states to protect our european economy. we do not believe in protection. no war could be predicted in terms of its outcome except for a trade war because we know that a trade war only has losers. nobody can win a trade war. we hope that we can convince president trump of that reality, but we will protect our interests if need be and we will help the european steel industry and the european economy to be competitive. let me end on this. this is something that will be discussed at the european council: jobs, competitiveness, growth. the world is changing at breakneck speed. we will need to be more competitive to keep up, but there are different ways of doing this. you can be competitive by lowering your prices, but then you will demolish the social fabric which is the very backbone of europe. you can also be competitive by being smarter, more innovative, investing, inventing new things. this is what europe has always been great at – all european nations – and that is why i believe that if we talk about the future of europe, we talk about better taxation, so that people pay taxes where they make profits and that they do not get away with playing one member state against another. (applause)we have to make sure that we develop the skills necessary to be able to act on the world stage. it is a delusion to think that we can protect the steel industry of individual member states if member states act individually on the world scale. we need the european union to act together on this. at the end of the day, it will be necessary to build europe on the basis of the values europeans share: a social market economy where the values are protected, where the race to the bottom is stopped and where we make sure that through solidarity and by working together, europe has a strong position on the world stage. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the house for its remarks and comments. i will convey all of them to the president of the european council. i took careful note of the suggestions that were addressed to me personally by ms berès, mr verhofstadt and mr fleckenstein, and i assure you that i will bring all of them to the attention of mr tusk. in response to mr telička’s criticisms, i would like to bring to your attention three main points. the first one is that it is the role of the presidency to present to you the state of play in preparations for the european council meeting. so i am here to listen to you and you can be sure that i will convey your remarks, proposals and ideas to president tusk. that is the purpose of this debate. secondly, mr tajani will intervene at the opening of the meeting and he will also have the opportunity to express parliament’s views. thirdly, president tusk will be in plenary in april for a full debate with you on all these topics. in conclusion, i would like to say that we need to ensure that the decisions taken by leaders will be implemented in full over time. in that spirit, the council will continue, under the bulgarian presidency, to regularly discuss the implementation of the european council conclusions.
in writing. – i welcome the european council reunion next spring, where pressing issues are going to be discussed. romania cannot accept, it is completely unacceptable an eu with two or more speeds. if taken, this path could step by step destroy the nowadays eu. there is generally one change for europe – a solidary eu, with equal rights for members and citizens. it is unfair and incorrect to keep romania outside the schengen area, with all kinds of pretexts invoked mainly by netherland for trade and economic interests, having nothing to do with schengen area requests and standards. to put it blindly, to keep the advantages of rotterdam harbour as a main gate for entrance within eu of foreign goods. constanta harbour, in romania, to the black sea might make a huge competition to the rotterdam harbour, having lots of geographic and strategic advantages. this situation cannot continue in this way. the presidency of romania has to rise this issue stronger than ever at the next european council meeting, on 22 and 23 march 2018. there are unfortunately double standards inside eu. i addressed again and again this situation which can jeopardise, on a medium and long term basis the eu’s future.
the situation of the lagging regions of the union is also of great concern, as current trends are perpetuating the backlog and making it difficult to use cohesion policy instruments effectively. i come from a country where most of the developing regions are considered to be lagging behind, and i would like to draw attention to two serious problems. one of the differences between statistics and reality is that if we look at the differences within the development regions, we see that without the results of the big cities as the poles of development, the situation would be even more bleak. the trend is that these development poles are draining resources and investment from the peripheral and less developed areas of the region, exacerbating already severe inequalities to which development policy has no answer. the other major problem is the phenomenon of migration: on the one hand, we see migration within individual regions towards more developed areas, and on the other hand, we see it at european level, not only from east to west but also from south to north. migration makes the lagging regions even more difficult, as it deprives them of the active, young, working population that holds the potential for growth.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, thank you to the rapporteurs. i think it's a very, very good, very balanced report, and it's their credit that they've managed to do this together. i also thank the commissioner for his cooperation so far and hope that he will be as open and in touch with parliament during the negotiations. the deadline, as you said, has to be before the election, politically it's very important to discuss the politics immediately after brexit. the level will obviously be decided in the european council, but, remember, everybody is reporting on the budget now, but the budget now was decided by cameron. so we shouldn't really be counting on him that much. on itre, on research policy, i know you are in favour of raising the horizon ceiling and i would also like the connecting europe facility in transport policy to be raised, because it was very low left by that cameron budget and don't forget flexibility, please nice.
reporting for opinion, committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs mr president, the future of the union also depends on how we use money, or, more precisely, how we use money. from the libe perspective, a few things are important. first, the security of the union and the security of every citizen of the union. we need funds for security programmes, for justice agencies, for agencies protecting external borders, for agencies in the field of foreign and domestic affairs and, of course, for those protecting human rights, to ensure the balance and european values. secondly, we need funds to stop the false russian propaganda, which is also used to influence national elections in many states, including in the member states, to break up countries and even to break up the union. and that affects security very much -- it's the biggest threat to the security of the union. rule of law - here i propose financial support for the venice commission, which, as we know, assesses the rule of law, the laws of justice in the member states and in the candidate countries. to stop crime and confiscate billions of euros or other stolen currencies, we need a european fund for the protection of independent investigative journalists, who find all these funds, find criminals, risk their lives, get blackmailed and die.... (president interrupts speaker)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i agree with a lot of what you said. neither what the commissioner said nor the debate among his colleagues has led us to think about a budget for the next period of the multinational financial framework and the development of tourism, although tourism in europe brings an impressive number of jobs, contributes to gdp. you think it's good that, at least from 2020, we have a budget line for tourism. and did you ever think that those additional sources that were being talked about here might be tax evasion? (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, the next multiannual financial framework should reflect the political priorities which we expect from the union in the next decade. it should be a balance between traditional priorities on the one side and new priorities on the other side. traditional priorities – agriculture and cohesion policy – continue to be important, because they are about rural development and food security, and cohesion is about competitiveness. it is about helping the least developed regions of the union. to these traditional priorities, new priorities are being added. the citizens of europe expect us to do more on security, defence, tackling the migration crisis and combating terrorism. if, at the end of the day, we expect the union to do more, it is not normal to offer it a smaller budget. commissioner, we also have to stand together in the negotiations with the member states and the council and tell them that, if we expect a more robust union which has more tasks, then a smaller budget is not realistic. we have to spend money well, and we have to update and modernise our policies, reform them and convince citizens that the money is well spent, but at the end of the day, new competences also mean a robust budget. we have to tell those member states who are concerned that paying more does not mean that you are in a worse situation. if the union is to do more and if we are also to contribute more, then it means that we will also receive more in terms of security, combating terrorism and everything that the citizens expect. this is in the interest of all the governments of the union. just to conclude, one sentence on timing. commissioner oettinger, we will vote on parliament’s position tomorrow and then you will make the proposal at the beginning of may. the parliament, our team, will be ready to negotiate. commissioner, please stand together with us in parliament in negotiations with the council to convince them that, the sooner we adopt the next mff, the better. the council should not adopt the next mff when it is politically convenient for them, but when it is good for the beneficiaries in the member states – for farmers, students, researchers and young unemployed people. the sooner we adopt it, the better for the beneficiaries. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr szanyi, my position is the following: we have to start these complicated discussions with setting the political priorities. we should not start by speaking about the amount, because if we start by speaking about the amount, every participant in the negotiations will want to pay as little as possible and to receive as much as possible. then the discussions will be divisive, difficult and inconclusive. firstly, we should find a political common denominator on what we want to achieve with regard to the budget, and only afterwards should we speak about the precise amounts in absolute terms or in relative terms.
madam president, we are currently in a moment when external propaganda, together with populist currents, is constantly attacking both the competences and the credibility of the european institutions, and an effective and efficient solution is to get closer to the european citizens. when we debate the multiannual financial framework, it is essential to set budgetary priorities in a way that is directly proportional to the expectations of european citizens, and beyond migration and terrorism, the economic issue is a priority for our citizens. i support the continuation and strengthening of key programmes: the research programme, cosme, erasmus+. we need more additional resources, in addition to possible new own resources, increased contributions from the member states, but also more flexibility. i would like to stress, however, that we must continue to support the cohesion funds, because both cohesion and agricultural policies are a fundamental link in the european construction and benefit a very large number of european citizens.
in writing. it is important to recognise that europe is facing two major challenges: an ageing population and depopulation of rural areas. life in the countryside is no longer attractive for young people in educational, economic and social terms. there are huge problems with infrastructure, but also the lack of quality health services in rural areas. the massive migration of the population from rural to urban areas has led to significant gaps in the economy. the majority of the remaining population in rural areas is composed of elderly people who are no longer able to work. the post-2020 financial framework must maintain the common agricultural policy and pillar i is essential. only with massive investments in rural areas will we be able to attract young people, investments that will be realized in well-paid jobs, quality educational institutions, high-speed internet connections, entertainment centers, infrastructure. otherwise, we will face an acute shortage of workers in the agricultural sector. we want not just food security, but food sovereignty. this can only be achieved through a process of trade and development policy reform for the benefit of the citizen.
mr president, i will tell you four things. firstly, commissioner, please take into account the main elements from the guidelines drafted by our colleague, daniele viotti, that will be approved by a large majority in plenary when you put forward the draft budget in may. i can say, speaking as a general rapporteur for the 2018 union budget, that last year, when you presented the draft budget, you took account of the conclusions in our guidelines in a more than satisfactory manner, and that made the budgetary procedure much easier. the more you take into account, the higher the likelihood that we can find a good agreement in the conciliation procedure at the end of the year. my second message is that trust is important. trust between parliament and the commission and all of the commission departments is important. let’s use the beginning of this budgetary procedure to establish such trust. thirdly, commissioner, last year we jointly decided in the conciliation procedure to increase the amounts for heading 1a – research, innovation, erasmus scholarships, and small and medium—sized enterprises – because money was needed there. but in the 2019 budget guidelines the council is now asking you to try to find ways to redeploy – and hence reduce – the budgets for 2019 and 2020 in those areas. please stand together with us in defending the increases. the amounts were needed for that heading, and any reductions are a move in the wrong direction. my fourth and last message, very briefly, is let’s find ways in the budget for next year to finance measures to tackle fake news and disinformation propaganda. fake news is a threat to the union and to our member states. let’s find ways to act.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is constantly facing a number of challenges and, in order to remain competitive, it must take account of the rapid changes taking place, the intensification of global competition and the profound changes brought about by digitalisation in all sectors. research, competitiveness, innovation and active smes are essential to enable economic growth and job creation in the european union. but to do so, it is important to provide these societies with a favourable environment for building a truly globally competitive eu economy, i.e. programmes that take account of their specific requirements and limited administrative resources. the 2019 european union budget should strengthen all relevant instruments to tackle youth unemployment, in particular in economically backward regions of the union, paying particular attention to improving entrepreneurial and vocational skills, recognition of qualifications at all levels of education and training, including the promotion of digital skills and entrepreneurship in the digital domain.
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that while all these things are very important – youth unemployment, immigration, brexit – i would like to refer to the european defence plan that was recently established. the european union cannot continue to be a soft power only. the european union needs to build security and defence capabilities because the main concern of european citizens nowadays is security. we have to respond to these concerns, giving more money, more funds, to european defence and security institutions like europol, like the european counter-terrorism centre, to frontex and so on and so forth. of course, the new pesco policy has to play a very important role because, as i said, we cannot continue to rely only on economic relations, on trade or on humanitarian aid or development aid. europe, if it wants to become a global actor, needs stronger security and defence capabilities.
it probably depends on the kind of beer!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 march 2018.
before the next debate on syria, as agreed, i would like to give the floor to the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mogherini, who will briefly address two issues: - progress on the un global compacts on refugees and ensuring legal migration in a safe and orderly manner. - the prospects for peace on the korean peninsula in light of recent developments.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on the un global compact on migration and refugees, let me start with good news, a good story for once, a little big european achievement over the last few months. you might remember last december i came to strasbourg and here in this hemicycle we talked about the detention centres in libya. i took, in front of you and most of all in front of all those people suffering inside these detention centres in libya, a commitment to bring back to their homes 15 000 migrants from within the detention centres to their countries of origin in a safe manner, with assisted voluntary returns made with our assistance through the international organization for migration (iom). at that moment we had just reached an unprecedented agreement between our european union, the african union and the united nations, in particular the united nation’s agencies for migrants and refugees, at our eu-africa union summit in abidjan. thanks to these agreements, in the first two months of this year, january and february, we managed to rescue and free more than 16 000 people from the camps in libya. in two months we managed to achieve more than in the previous year and already in 2017 the results were 10 times better than the previous one, than 2016. now, in the detention camps there are still some 4 000 to 5 000 people. that is far too much and we are going to continue our work with the united nations and with the african union to empty the camps. we’ve managed to bring 16 000 people out of there in two months. i believe we can make it and empty them completely within the coming maximum couple of months. this has been possible for one reason. we joined forces, first of all within europe, second with our african partners and friends and, on a global scale, within the un system. i’m glad to start with this positive note, acknowledging that again still the work to be done is a lot but because sometimes we forget to focus on the achievements we managed to build. i think that humans are important to lead us towards the solutions and the way. this is only one piece of the puzzle we are trying to put together. the work on safe and dignified returns goes together with saving lives and arresting human traffickers both at sea and on land, it goes together with our trust funds to tackle the root causes of migration and with our new external investment fund to create jobs and growth in the most fragile regions of origin. the challenge of human mobility in our century is huge. we have experienced it directly, but continents like africa experience it every day even more. but experience tells us that it is manageable. no country can manage this alone, but together we can set up a humane, dignified and secure mechanism for governing human mobility. this is the spirit of the new york declaration that we approved two years ago – solidarity, shared responsibility, multilateralism and engagement. around these four pillars we have built a common ground. this should be also the spirit of the two global compacts on refugees and migrants. it is not by standing aside or pretending we can put a wall between us and the rest of the world that we will shape common solutions. we remain convinced that all states can benefit from closer international cooperation, be they countries of origin, transit or destination – and some countries are all three at the same time. some countries are experiencing the situation of being at the same time countries of origin, transit and destination. work on both global compacts has now concluded on the consultative phase, and negotiations and formal consultations on the actual text started last month. i believe this is a unique opportunity to bring forward the european vision on migration and bring there, at the global level, the experiences, the lessons, we have learned and the partnerships we have built. it is a vision grounded on human rights, responsibility and mutual solidarity; a vision where traffickers and smugglers and the connected criminal organisations find no place, where we reduce irregular migration and instead we have the courage to invest in more regular and safe channels for migrants. to achieve this we will need strong un coordination under the leadership of the iom and the unhcr, under the respective compacts. the first and second negotiating sessions in new york on the global compact on migration are now behind us, showing a strong concordance of voices across the globe. there is still a lot of work to do but there is a good basis to develop a common understanding on how to humanely and efficiently manage migration together now and in the long term. also, on the global compact for refugees, formal consultation has started in geneva and it is important to ensure a balanced and inclusive outcome for refugees and also for the host communities. for the past 18 months the european union has established strong leadership in the process, thanks also to the partnerships we have developed in these years. now with the withdrawal of the united states from the compacts back in december, the compacts need more than ever a strong and united europe. let me say that i regret that one of our member states has recently presented a position that is not in line with the position of the 27 other member states. here our common work and also your contribution as a parliament will be essential because together we can push towards inclusive and balanced compacts to improve the lives of millions of people, to address the concerns of european citizens and to turn migration from a common challenge into a shared opportunity for human development. i will now move from the un to the korean peninsula. for months and years now we have been working as a european union to avoid the nightmare scenario of a nuclear crisis on the korean peninsula and we have, let’s say, gained some experience in work on nuclear negotiations. since the winter olympics, the news coming from the far east has given us some hope. the situation on the korean peninsula could turn from a potential catastrophe into a demonstration of the power of multilateral diplomacy and, let me add, wise leadership. i especially want to thank and recognise the efforts that the president of the republic of korea, president moon, has exercised over this month. last week, the democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk) communicated, through the voice of the south korean special envoy, its willingness to enter into negotiations on denuclearisation. reportedly, north korea would refrain from testing nuclear weapons or missiles during these negotiations. if these announcements were to be confirmed they could create the necessary conditions towards a negotiated solution. the summit meeting between president moon and kim jong un in april could start to build the necessary trust, de—escalate tensions and improve inter-korean relations. president trump’s potential readiness to accept the invitation to a summit by the month of may represents another possible element of a breakthrough towards a diplomatic solution. the unity of the international community will be an essential factor to determine whether we collectively succeed or fail. we europeans, the european union and the member states, are ready to do our part, as we always did. our policy of critical engagement with the dprk is more valid than ever. we stand for maximum pressure and dialogue. both are necessary to avert the danger of war. we have always stressed the need to come to full denuclearisation – irreversible, verifiable denuclearisation of the korean peninsula – through peaceful diplomatic means. the european union sanctions regime on the dprk is currently the most restrictive towards any country in the world. we implemented all the un security council resolutions on the dprk and we adopted additional autonomous measures. we also worked with third countries to help enforce the full implementation of all resolutions and we will continue this approach and shortly will launch a new outreach to third countries. we will maintain, in this way, the direct and indirect pressure on dprk. but we have always believed that sanctions are a tool and not a goal in themselves. our objective is, has always been and remains, to help open the political path for a peaceful, negotiated solution of north korean denuclearisation. that is why we encourage and support this new high-level diplomatic initiative. i would like again to praise the leadership and courage shown by the republic of korea, president moon and the entire government. i am happy and proud to say that next monday in brussels, i will welcome the korean foreign minister to our foreign affairs council to discuss together the way forward and how the european union can continue to support their work to accompany these efforts, as we have constantly done during this month, in an even more effective manner. our goal, as i said, is the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. i believe this is a goal that we can achieve with wisdom, unity and the determination that i think we have shown together with our partners internationally in this month. (applause)
this point has been closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the situation in syria (2018/2626 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this week marks the tragic anniversary of the syrian war. it has been seven years and the war is not over yet. after some encouraging signs of de-escalation in the second half of last year, we have been warning, as the european union last month, about the risks of a new escalation, and we have tried to prevent it, mainly with our work in the security council of the united nations that led to the adoption of the security council resolution 2401. what we see today is a dramatic re-escalation of military activities. afrin first, then the tragedy of eastern ghouta. with every new escalation a new level of horror is reached. in eastern ghouta we have witnessed the intentional bombing of civilians and medical facilities and snipers shooting at those who are trying to flee. there is only one rational and moral thing we can do. we can only keep working together with the united nations to achieve what has not been achieved so far: a political solution in geneva as the foundation of a just and lasting peace. we believe the most urgent task now is to stop the fighting and bring relief to the civilian population. at the end of february, as i mentioned, the un security council adopted unanimously, thanks also to our work, the work of our member states in the security council, the resolution 2401, demanding a 30—day cessation of hostilities all around syria, with the only exception of operations against daesh and al—qaeda. at our meeting of the eu member states foreign affairs ministers, our foreign affairs council on 26 february, we were united in calling for a full and immediate implementation of the resolution. and right after we met, the same day, i wrote to the foreign ministers of russia, iran and turkey, the three guarantors of the astana process, because they have committed to creating four de-escalation zones in syria – and let me recall that eastern ghouta is one of these four zones. so they have taken a clear responsibility and we expect them to fulfil it. in my letter i called on them to contribute to the full and immediate implementation of the security council resolution, and this includes taking all necessary steps to ensure that the fighting stops, that humanitarian access is ensured, and to allow for life—saving deliveries of assistance and medical evacuations. in eastern ghouta over 1 000 people are now in need of evacuation as doctors, medicines and medical appliances are lacking. thanks also to our work, together with the united nations, on the first days of march a un aid convoy was finally allowed to enter duma. it was the first aid convoy since november and it brought some much—needed relief to thousands of people trapped in eastern ghouta. our first concern is always saving lives; it is always the humanitarian needs. but the shelling resumed while the operations were still ongoing and the convoy had to leave before the aid could be fully unloaded. this shows that a daily five—hour truce can be a first step, but it is clearly not sufficient. syria needs a full cessation of hostilities as agreed by the un security council, and it is also unacceptable that the syrian regime removed critical medical items from the convoy in clear violation of international humanitarian law. as our diplomatic work for a truce continues every single day, as our humanitarian support to syrians continues, we must also keep focusing on peace talks, on a political solution in geneva. i know it is difficult to talk about peace negotiations, and even more to engage in peace negotiations, while thousands are still dying, but let us keep in mind two things. first, that peace is all the more urgent when the fighting gets worse; and second, that peace can only come from a comprehensive political agreement under un auspices. i believe we should have learned that by now. limited agreements do open windows of hope, and bring limited improvement, but have always collapsed owing to the lack of broader political agreement on the future of syria. the new escalation of violence in eastern ghouta, but also in afrin, can push further away the chances for a political solution to the conflict and can easily lead to an even more dramatic escalation, even in these hours. we need to concentrate all our energies in supporting and revitalising the un—led negotiations in geneva in a determined and consistent manner, gathering the efforts of all the partners in the region and the international community. support in geneva will be one of the key goals of the second brussels conference we will host on the future of syria and the region at the end of april. we will gather the international community, the regional players, around three objectives. first, to renew our humanitarian support to the people of syria, both inside syria and in the neighbouring countries. second, we will work on the recovery of areas where the fighting has ended, particularly the areas liberated from daesh, bringing back services and normal life to communities, men, women and children, that aspire to a sort of normal life. reconstruction, as we said several times and very clearly – and we will repeat in brussels at the end of april – will only begin after a credible and inclusive political agreement has been reached, but the perspective of reconstruction can help the geneva process. this is why we continue to work also to prepare for peace as the most powerful leverage we have to encourage a positive dynamic and outcome of negotiations. this is the first objective of the brussels conference in april: use our convening power, which is quite remarkable, together with the united nations, to unite a real international and regional consensus, to give a political push to intra—syria negotiations in geneva. this is not because we are naive or blind – on the contrary, after seven years we know how difficult it is to end this war, and even those that have tried partial political avenues to gather different formats have realised very clearly the limits of this exercise. it is only through collective un effort that we can get there. but we know that it would simply be impossible to bring peace to syria without everyone’s contribution. this is why we are insisting on strong political commitment to negotiations to be expressed in a united manner at the brussels conference coming up in a couple of months from now, because we cannot afford to stop working for peace, and it is exactly in the darkest moments that the work for peace is most needed. we, the european union, are not giving up on the syrian people and will call on the rest of the world to do the same.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, we can no longer really speak of a civil war when we refer to syria. it is more like a massacre. the horror of the images coming from eastern ghouta leaves us speechless. i am thinking in particular of the children who are being subjected to barbaric treatment by the syrian regime and its allies. we are forced to see the total paralysis of the international community in the face of this humanitarian tragedy. not only are un security council resolutions violated as soon as they are voted, but, worse, the bombing has intensified since the resolution was voted. putin, at the height of his powers, is playing his favorite game of pyromaniac fireman, providing unwavering support for the assad regime on the one hand and offering us a five-hour truce on the other, which is both unrealistic and cynical. no humanitarian aid worthy of the name can be given to the civilians trapped in ghouta in the space of five hours. the syrian regime and its russian and iranian protectors leave the people with only one choice: leave or die. but where to go? another bombed-out area? one thing is certain: we cannot massacre hundreds of thousands of civilians and then hope to reintegrate them into a future syrian society led by the assad clan. there will be no reconstruction until the executioners pay for their crimes.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, all our efforts to implement a ceasefire in eastern ghouta are failing one after another. assad’s regime, under the complacent eyes of its allies, russia and iran, is continuing with full impunity the bombing of villages, civilians, hospitals and ambulances and continuing to drop chemical weapons. children now account for a quarter of civilian deaths. the humanitarian situation is only worsening and the humanitarian aid cannot get in. it is unbearable to stand by in front of such a human tragedy and suffering. russia is continuing to undermine un credibility and mocking the international community, while every day we are watching the ‘butcher of damascus’ exterminating his own people. there is no peace process without a ceasefire all over syria, including in afrin, ghouta and idlib. the only result from what is happening in syria is more and more suffering, war and radicalisation spread all over the region. this is why we should we acknowledge the impressive solidarity demonstrated by the neighbours of syria towards the refugees. the s&d group calls on the member states to step up financial support for host countries and welcomes the fact that the brussels ii conference on syria will aim to channel more support for the international community to refugee hosting countries. the un—led process is the only way forward for syria. in the meantime, we have to make sure that the ceasefire is implemented and all evidence and testimony of human crime in syria is preserved in order to ensure that international justice will prevail in that country. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr schaffhauser, let’s be serious. this debate and the resolution to be voted on by the plenary is based on evidence provided by the un and the un security council, strong evidence which speaks of crimes committed, not allegations. this is why i treat all the victims as just human beings, not belonging to this or that faith or ethnic group. they are all human beings who are being completely destroyed. i am devastated by the violence. so the ceasefire is good for all, and i really hope that you will stop peddling allegations in this house.
in writing. we keep coming up with the same questions about the syrian situation. is it really in the interest of the forces supporting the parties to stop the bloodshed and to begin the reconstruction and political settlement? regardless of which side was winning the conflict, this question was always raised and never answered satisfactorily. the mobility of european countries does not seem to be very large, we are still only observers in a process in which regional powers, along with global powers, are shaping the settlement, while many of the refugees live among us in europe today. some may say that the war is won, but there is no guarantee that peace will be won easily. what is certain is that it is in the interests of the millions of people who live in syria and the millions of people who have fled from syria to finally have their country back. but who's on their side?
mr president, i first want to thank ms mogherini for her statement on turkmenistan. as rapporteur for turkmenistan, i can only express my concerns on the situation in this country: lack of respect for human rights, corruption and low democratic standards. such topics are indeed sensitive and difficult to approach through direct talks, producing little or no result through the classic diplomatic tools. a constant new presence in turkmenistan would be constructive and efficient, more than isolation, if we want to achieve our goals and not just talk about them. most of my colleagues share this position, and this is why the european parliament has already requested a fully-fledged delegation in ashgabat. if we all consider that a partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with turkmenistan as a legal support will offer a strong platform for constructive relations, then i can only ask high representative ms mogherini to give us full support to achieve this goal as soon as possible.
mr president, europe is no longer a concern for the rest of the world in terms of growth and reducing unemployment. but as you have pointed out, commissioner, we still have countries with excessive imbalances and countries where youth unemployment is still unacceptable. moreover, europe, we have to admit, has lagged behind in terms of the rate of productivity growth. i therefore consider the european semester to be a powerful instrument through which, in a coordinated way at union level, each member state acts to create incentives for increased productivity and, in general, for a better standard of living. i believe that in the discussions we will have on the future of the union, the european commission and my colleagues in parliament must come up with solutions on how to strengthen the responsibility of the member states to implement the recommendations made in the european semester.
mr president, i strongly welcome the emphasis mr hetman’s report places on the crucial role of education and economic development, labour market access and individual wellbeing. as the latest csrs for my country warn, beside the distorting effects of undeclared work, it is a weak education and vocational development sector that weighs most on long-term competitiveness, growth and convergence. despite being a persistent area of past recommendations, only limited progress has been achieved in what concerns basic skills, high early school leaving, roma inclusion and rural—urban disparities in education. it does not help either that, instead of being a respected education and career pathway for young professionals, vocational education remains only a second—choice option and, in most cases, is not adapted to labour market needs. i sincerely hope that we will take more heed of advice in these areas and stop practices that jeopardise our future.
mr president, reckless protectionism and nationalism can only isolate the united states and hurt the international rules-based trading system. yes, a potential trade war can be triggered by new duties on steel and aluminium and can heavily impact first and foremost american jobs. therefore, this parliament can only invite president trump and the us administration to take into consideration the potential damage before going any further. do not forget: trade war can go global. moreover, it is important for the eu to take all necessary measures – but well-calibrated in substance – to safeguard and to protect our internal market and workers and industries. i will finish, nevertheless, by stating the obvious. whilst transatlantic relations are facing an important number of challenges and disruptions in the short term, the long-term fundamentals remain strong. the cooperation between the eu and us as like-minded partners remains crucial, notably when it comes to trade and investment, and any further action on both sides should remain balanced and take into consideration the importance of our strategic relations and for the sides’ role at world level.
mr president, president trump's decision came as a bitter surprise to us, the epp group, supporters of free and fair trade in the service of the people. we know that protectionism does not solve problems, it creates them. a trade war has no winners, only losers. the american people, the supporters of president trump, will lose. american and european industries will lose. the countries of eastern europe, including my country, romania, will suffer greatly. the big global steel producers, russia, ukraine, turkey, are our neighbors. they'll be channeling their exports to us. we therefore call on the european commission to find the quickest, firmest and most convincing response, while at the same time being proportionate, to defend european industries and avoid a trade war that would cost us all the well-being of our citizens.
mr president, commissioners, our disappointment, our sadness, is that there is no place for measures to protect romanian companies, romanian products, romanian citizens. mr. trump has accustomed us to radical decisions. after all, it proves that he doesn't respect a partner. we are members of the world trade organisation and i think, commissioner, that of the three measures, i would not start with the first, with legal action. you yourself said it takes a long time. i think we have to go to the world trade organisation, negotiate and, of course, above all, protect the market, because in other situations, when we have asked in this house to have market protection measures, not to close the market, but to protect, because we have imports of products at dumped prices, this has not happened. that's why i think we don't need a trade war, but we must come back very firmly, for the protection of european products - obviously, and romanian ones - and european companies. that's why i'm advocating for a negotiation and safeguard measures.
mr president, commissioner, this is an unfortunate situation. everyone knows – and has been told here – that a trade war cannot be won. maybe it is time, using this situation, to send the united states an invitation to a european union—united states summit to discuss all these issues: political and diplomatic cooperation, the economy, trade, investments, security and defence. maybe mr trump has forgotten that the closest allies of the united states are the european union countries, not only australia. maybe we should use this situation in a positive way in order to have this summit. there have been too many situations recently where the european union has had to respond to its close ally, the united states of america. it is probably time for discussions, and the president of the council, the president of the commission and ms mogherini should launch this initiative.
mr. president, mr. prime minister... (answering the statements in the hall) ... sorry. thank you. thank you. mr prime minister, you have convinced me: you are pro-european. i'm right here. i've visited your country many times. you have a tourist country. it's clear to me: you are a pro-european. i have a few questions; i don't want to repeat what's been asked here. mr prime minister, how do you see the future of the european union in terms of citizens' trust? what kind of europe can we have? do you believe in the need to abandon this division into two europe: schengen/non-schengen? do you believe in the importance of informing citizens, so as not to be eurosceptic citizens? do you believe in the common vision of having a policy on migration? for example, you didn't touch on your vision of migration. do you consider that the development of tourism in europe is also part of cohesion policy?
mr. president, i'm going to take a different approach. uk election law does not allow for foreign funding, and until we have certainty that the results of the june 2016 referendum are legal, we cannot talk about a future eu-uk relationship. why do i say that? the us senate has detailed how kremlin operatives funded the brexit campaign with hundreds of millions of dollars of laundered money. the commission notes that the bank of england has not provided any evidence that the bank of england has engaged in any form of illegal activity in relation to the provision of financial services to the united kingdom. the uk electoral commission has launched an investigation into businessman arron banks over the origin of funds that allowed him to avoid bankruptcy and finance brexit. as such, we have no certainty that this referendum was fair and the investigation into russian funding must be brought to an end.
mr president, the post-2020 financial framework of the european union will define the role of the eu in the lives of its citizens. it is therefore important to maintain the current amount of the common budgetary resources in spite of the withdrawal of the united kingdom. i think that the member states also have to recognise that we need to contribute more if we want to achieve results. our most important common policies are what the eu means to citizens. if cohesion or agricultural policy lose their importance, and if the eu cannot bring about measurable action in areas considered important to societies, what is left? the maintenance of the eu institutions is not in itself a value for citizens, unless they can improve their lives with the right tools, and so whether we are talking about the digital economy, about bringing back the backward regions, about european food production, we are talking about the future of the eu and europeans.
mr. president, if brexit proves to be legal and not financed by russian money, then it will leave a gap that needs to be filled without reducing the resources of the union and without affecting the financing of european projects. it's very important to bring the money that we already have, but it's stolen, and i mean fraud. i repeat, the vat fraud on european funds alone is five billion euros a year. this money we can get back. we must make it a priority to combat customs fraud and to combat all forms of fraud. the budget must also have policies with european added value and link revenues to union objectives, in particular in the areas of the single market, energy, environment and transport. human resources reform is also needed - the future of eu funding must not be left in the hands of corrupt people. that is why i propose that we introduce the rule: no penalties in the european parliament and no penalties in the european institutions, so that we have a relationship of trust with the citizens.
mr president, the commission's economic forecasts show continued economic growth in a changing political context. this growth is expected to continue in both the euro area and the european union at 2,1% in 2018 and at 1,9% growth in 2019. the 2018 european semester cycle involves harmonising european taxation and tackling tax evasion. union budgets must provide an incentive for sustainable growth, convergence, inclusion, so that we can create better working and living conditions for union citizens. it is also very important to invest in research and innovation, because that is the only way progress can be made and change and move the european union and each individual country forward, and that in all areas.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the gradual rise in popularity of digital currencies has led to an increase in cybercrime, as it gives hackers control over these virtual accounts. i want to talk about one specific aspect: bitcoin and onecoin. bitcoin is one of those so-called digital currencies that doesn't actually exist, that is not registered with any competent authority, that is promoted by its founders as a digital currency that will make investors rich over time, but there is no evidence of cash coverage for this virtual currency. bitcoin cannot be used, because it cannot be used for payments and is only a tool for speculation. a ponzi scheme used by companies such as onelife network ltd, based in the offshore jurisdiction of belize. if we look at the website, we see that it's temporarily closed. now, onecoin is the regional bitcoin and it's a currency that also doesn't exist. there are, for example, regional ones in moldova, bulgaria and romania - investigations are being carried out. it's being sold by a criminal network that operates on a pyramid scheme and that's called onelife.
madam president, ján kuciak is investigating how one of the most brutal syndicates of the italian mafia infiltrated slovakia. he had information that european money from agricultural subsidies had reached them and discovered links between slovak officials and the calabrian mafia. but why did he die? ján requested information, on the basis of the italian public information law, from the italian treasury, which, by law, informs the persons whose information is requested if they wish to appeal. basically, in italy, criminals are effectively notified when someone requests information about them. we urgently need to make standards in union law that protect the identity of investigative journalists. we can take an example from various witness protection laws undercover. otherwise, we're basically forcing investigative journalists to give up their personal data, packaging their lives and giving them away to criminal organizations.
the question is "blue cardboard". dear colleague, do you not believe and i have listened to you very carefully that we need to strengthen the common european security services at this time? do you not think we need to create a european intelligence agency? not just against terrorism, but against crime in europe, because we see the abominable things happening in europe, in slovakia, in britain, everywhere.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, my dear colleague, you are right: the crime is horrible, not only against a journalist, against any human being, but journalists, all the more, are exposed, as it was said here, because of the investigations. do you think that everything related to european funds, to the spending of public money in any member state should have greater transparency and be subject to a public information system, in order to prevent crimes against journalists who decry?
blue-card question. – i know you are a specialist on this matter, mr schwab. since the very beginning i have supported the merger of both directives on corporate tax, including by aligning the entry into force of the base and the consolidation on 1 january 2020. taking into consideration your experience, don’t you think that it is too early? do you think 1 january 2020 is feasible, when we are almost in the middle of 2018?
mr president, a shared language to describe the competences of eu citizens in a transparent and interoperable way between member states is essential in a common european space. students and jobseekers, as well as employers and education institutions, should be able to convey and understand information easily on skills and qualifications. by supporting information sharing in this field in a consistent way across borders, europass documents have already proven their usefulness, both for individuals looking for work or study opportunities throughout europe, and for employers in selecting candidates with the appropriate skills to their needs. this is why it is so important to keep it relevant, in step with changing technologies and practices, interoperable with other eu instruments, and capable of describing skills acquired through non-formal learning. having said this, i also welcome the report’s emphasis on keeping this instrument simple and effective and its objective of improving accessibility for older people and persons with disabilities. evidence shows that people with lower digital literacy are less likely to use europass, and therefore less likely to benefit from its advantages.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, europass is mainly known throughout europe as the standard cv format, loved or criticized, but certainly used by many europeans and not only. we want to turn europass into an online space for citizens who want to promote their skills and qualifications at european level, but also to find new opportunities for work, training or education. as a socialist mep, i will always be a strong supporter of european initiatives that directly support citizens in their personal and professional development. i strongly encourage the facilitation of access to this portal for all persons with disabilities or with a lower degree of digital literacy, but also the ensuring of better protection of personal data to be stored on europass. i also welcome the inclusion of recognition of skills acquired through non-formal or informal education. i hope that europass will thus give the member states a boost in implementing these long-awaited recognition procedures. i consider the new europass platform a successful idea of the european union. i therefore urge you to ensure that it is developed and implemented efficiently and with quality, and, not least, that it is adequately funded.
mr president, commissioner, the europass is a tool used initially more by young people. over time, the range of use has expanded to all age groups. the evolution of the way people work, learn or communicate today, and the european union's tools and services, must take account of the rapid developments in society, precisely to meet current or future requirements and to be connected to the rapid progress of emerging technologies. skills acquired at national level can now be used anywhere in europe. it is appropriate that after ten years there is an update of the europass framework to better match the needs of the market, namely the needs of learners, jobseekers, education and training providers, recruiters and employers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. it will be beneficial for europe to have a platform at european level providing integrated services covering the full range of european services relating to learning opportunities, career guidance and transparency of qualifications, and to extend the use of a european framework for the classification of skills, competences, qualifications and occupations as a common language and operational tool for education, training and work.
in writing. – although the eu provides a wide range of tools and services to support the exchange of information and a better understanding of skills to facilitate mobility and encourage the transparency of qualifications, these tools are yet to be exploited at their full potential. evidence has shown that despite some success stories, such as the europass cv, potential beneficiaries are generally unaware of the available services to facilitate mobility. additionally, the development of these tools has not been in line with changes in the way people acquire skills, learn and communicate today. this affects the integration on the european labour market. i fully support the new proposal, which will modernise eu tools and services to ensure that the changing needs of all potential beneficiaries from the labour market are reflected. as the europass will convert from a document-based facility into a service-based platform, its scope of activity will widen and will thus ensure that users’ needs will be the core of the framework services. i strongly believe that for an integrated and functional european labour market this is necessary, and from now on all potential users will constantly be updated to the technological developments and new forms of sharing information.
madam president, i very much welcome the questions related to accompanying measures aimed at the promotion of the implementation of and compliance with due diligence for the minerals’ countries of origin. indeed, in their joint communication, the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy expressed their commitment to the implementation of accompanying measures for an integrated eu approach to responsible sourcing, with the purpose not only of ensuring a high level of participation by companies in the union, but also of guaranteeing that a global, coherent and comprehensive approach is put in place in order to promote responsible sourcing from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. following the launch of the first development cooperation instrument-funded accompanying measure in late 2017, it is important to assess whether other accompanying measures responding to the objectives encompassed in the joint communication will be designed, and whether these additional measures would cover very relevant aspects such as the implementation of fair taxation for minerals. finally, with regards to the actors involved, it is of great importance that the interventions envisaged include local authorities and civil societies as well.
madam president, commissioner, you have made a very clear presentation of the current situation and, i agree, we have directives, we have the alternative fuel directive, we have the 2017 mobility package. however, you have specified that, in the context of national policies, the implementation of the directive has not reached the ambitions regarding the use of alternative fuels. could you tell us why? a few examples? because i think that what you said, that states can use funds from the development fund, from the cohesion fund, does not yet apply in all states. and there is one more problem. i don't think anyone here wants to have no clean cars. the problem is we have to figure out how. we need a creative, innovative industry with cars that don't pollute, and we need infrastructure. i think about how sad it is now, that we have so little infrastructure -- i'm not talking about rural -- in the urban environment. the rural environment is a disaster, and i would not want to see that by switching to alternative fuels, we disconnect poor areas and rural areas from transport connectivity. so we have to think very carefully about what measures we can take.
madam president, commissioner, at the level of the european union, but also at the global level, we are faced with an overwhelming majority of internal combustion vehicle propulsion systems, systems which use conventional fuels. the burning of these products results in the production of polluting emulsions, which have a harmful effect on the population, the environment and amplify the greenhouse effect, which increases global warming. the european family must take a defensive stance against massive pollution, adopt various mechanisms to increase the use of alternative energies. the problem is also felt at industrial level, where alternative fuel-based freight transport is needed. we also need to think seriously about the deployment of energy-efficient public transport in urban areas. these moves will create a healthy environment and increase competitiveness across all sectors to find the best solutions. we need an ambitious and realistic policy if we want the right infrastructure for alternative fuels. let's look to the future -- cleaner cities and countries, healthier air to breathe, protected oil resources, and, what i believe is most important for the lives of every single person in the country, much healthier crops.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, we are of course concerned about the recent political developments in the maldives. that is why we, the epp, have proposed these resolutions. president yameen is seeking to establish his authoritarian rule in a brutal manner by annihilating all political opposition, seeking to use the judiciary as he sees fit and obstructing the independence of the press and civil society. his most recent act is the installation of the state of emergency, which allows him to suppress respect for fundamental freedoms. i believe that we must have a reaction that is proportionate to the total deviation from any democratic principle by the yameen regime. it would be important for a mission from this parliament to go to the maldives to signal our concern about the current political situation. in addition, we must join forces with other regional actors, such as india, to support a process of return to respect for democratic norms in the maldives. i do not think we can ally ourselves with china in this context, because beijing cannot be a partner for us in any way on democracy and human rights.
madam president, the situation in sudan continues to pose a threat to international peace and security in the region. following the crackdown on peaceful protests, civil society and human rights defenders conducted by the sudanese authorities, i strongly support the call for the unconditional release of salih mahmoud osman, as well as any other human rights defenders and civil society activists who are being detained solely as a result of their legitimate and peaceful work. all human rights defenders need to be able to perform legitimate human rights activities openly, without restrictions and without fear of reprisals. they have an essential role in ensuring democracy, human rights, the rule of law, stability and sustainable development, but this is probably too much for today’s sudan. the sudanese authorities have to put an end to targeting all human rights defenders and activists, conduct thorough investigations into all allegations of torture and ill-treatment, and bring the perpetrators to justice.
in writing. – in 2007 we awarded human rights lawyer salih mahmoud osman the sakharov prize. now we must defend him as he has defended so many others. he, along with other human rights defenders, opposition party leaders, journalists and students are arbitrarily detained as sudan’s president omar al-bashir takes criminal action against the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution he swore to protect. sudanese armed forces and police kill students and peaceful protesters with live ammunition, and the human rights abuses in sudan continue to increase. the sudanese authorities must stop these atrocities, as well as stop confiscating newspapers, harassing and imprisoning journalists, and torturing detained persons. president omar al-bashir must ensure that international law is being followed, and call for the sudanese government to stop these violations in all accounts.
madam president, considering the hundreds of ritual killings of children – the so-called mercy killings of disabled children and women – that take place in uganda each year, this is an abominable situation. it is incredible that, in the 21st century, we should face such a situation. the practice is taking place mainly among the rich elite. i would like to express my concern over the lack of data, which makes the fight against this practice very difficult. there are no official numbers available, as it is the police, and not the justice system, in uganda who investigate these phenomena. i strongly condemn these cruel acts of violence, especially towards children, while i strongly share the opinion that it is primarily the responsibility of the state to protect its citizens, including the vulnerable. the european union definitely has to address this situation, in one way or another, and especially with regard to the funds that the european union is giving to the ugandan government.
mr president, commissioner, i want to congratulate my colleague, first of all, on the question he has asked, and as a man who has worked in business, i say that to block 21 billion and not to give it where it should be, seems to me absolutely unacceptable and i do not understand your motivation, commissioner, that you could not start the evaluations sooner, because it would create additional bureaucracy for those who have to report. well, look at the states, look at the regions, and you'll see that they want to report. any delay in giving some money on reforms is a loss. and i don't understand one thing -- how can there be the idea of taking this money, i understand from the speeches here? motivational factor: this amount was designed to be given to those who are performing. and, of course, i cannot help but refer to what our colleague said, that structural reforms are not linked to cohesion policy, which seems strange to me. please, commissioner, answer us.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, as you said, more than six months ago, parliament decided to have a debate on the situation in the republic of moldova and also to vote on a resolution. during the october part-session, the vote on the resolution was postponed and, every month since, our political group has called for the text to be voted on on the basis of this. we were rejected. the last time the pretext was that a delegation from the committee on foreign affairs would go to the republic of moldova and, after returning, we would have the opportunity to vote on a resolution in the light of the facts. the delegation visited two weeks ago and i think it is time to stick to our word on the vote on this text. i believe that the republic of moldova needs the support of the european parliament and i see no reason why we should not vote on it after, say, six months of debate in the chamber.
mr president, climate change is already affecting the planet and society and will continue to do so for generations to come, if the appropriate actions are not taken now! the physical and chemical changes of human activities are being felt in natural ecosystems very strongly. both developed and developing countries have increased commitments for addressing climate change, which is gratifying, given the fact that climate change is a problem which cannot be solved by national or local action alone. forest management has an essential role to play in combating climate change, as all sectors must contribute to the overall eu emission reduction goal. nevertheless, forest mitigation should be measured using a scientifically objective approach, not allowing countries to hide the impacts of policies that increase emissions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 17 april 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of ms simone bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste (com (2015) 0596 - c8-0385/2015 - 2015/0276 (cod)) (a8-0029/2017) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/53/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/35/ec on electronic equipment and packaging waste (cod/2018/eu) (cod/2018/0838), on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/68/ec on electronic equipment and accumulators (com (2015) 0386 - c0538/2015) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec (com (2015) 03847) and directive 2009/68/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of electronic equipment and accumulators in the field of packaging and of foodstuffs (com (2015) 0382 - c05384/2017) on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/68/ec) on the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the council on the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the european commission directive 2009/68/ec of the european parliament and of the european parliament and of the council on environmental, directive 2009/68/0013/ec, directive 2009/68/ec, and the directive 2009/ec, and the council directive 2009/ec, and the council directive 2009/ec, directive (a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-a8-d
madam president, tonnes of paper, glass, biowaste and even metals lie buried on the outskirts of our cities, threatening water supplies and air quality. this is not a future for our citizens and they do not wish or need it. human beings simply wish to live and prosper in a safe and caring environment. the circular economy is therefore not only about waste recycling or targets, it is actually about air, water, new jobs, new resources and money – money that we can dig out of the bin and put to work for us in a new economy that never existed before. the circular economy is one of those policies which has the general support of the public and where eu added value is crystal clear. implementation is, unfortunately, another story, and it will take a lot of effort by the member states to make sure these policies are going to be implemented efficiently. i wish to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for making a good proposal even better, and for allowing much—needed flexibility for countries that need more time to get to where we all need to be. if we make the circular economy a success story, it will become part of the new narrative that the future of europe needs.
madam president, in one year the total volume of waste generated by the european union amounts to 2.5 billion tonnes, of which 1.6 billion tonnes have not been recycled or reused, which is a huge loss for the european economy. in the urban environment, only 43% of waste is recycled, the rest being stored in landfills, 31%, or incinerated, 26%. all this waste is an important source of raw materials for the economy, especially when we consider that natural reserves of raw materials are limited in time and some of them may not be accessible at affordable prices in the coming years. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on waste management and the implementation of the union's policy on waste management. the use of packaging made from organic materials will generate price reductions and a lower impact on the environment. europe must pay greater attention to hazardous waste which seriously affects the health and safety of the population, the quality of water, and the environment.
reporting officer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the environment action programme is a wide-ranging set of regulations and policies with numerous objectives and targets. if fully implemented, it would bring considerable improvements in the environment, health and quality of life. as we approach the end of the current programme, we need to assess how well it has been implemented and what changes would be necessary for a future programme. i want to thank the hundreds of stakeholder representatives who contributed their views to this evaluation process. many have given the program positive reviews. the benefits to citizens and the environment, the shaping of a long-term vision and a strategic orientation for decision-makers were recognised. however, there is a huge gap between the expectations of this programme and the actual results it produces. progress has been made in some areas. in terms of resource efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reductions, eu legislation is having a positive impact and there is clear progress towards a more resource-efficient economy. but in other areas, implementation is very weak. the natural capital of the european union is deteriorating, with devastating effects on the environment and ecosystem services such as water, air and food. environmental threats to health are sometimes difficult to measure and we don't have enough data. in other cases, however, the evidence is not lacking. for example, it is clear that the constantly high emissions from road transport force millions of people to breathe polluted air. the problem is often that member states do not meet the basic standards set by regulations such as the birds or habitats directives or air quality legislation. eu policies are not always compatible with each other or complementary to national priorities. better alignment of agricultural policies with environmental objectives is essential both for environmental protection and for future food security. food security and environmental protection are not opposite priorities. progress in conserving nature and biodiversity could be much greater if existing funds were used more wisely. the european court of auditors has identified several cases of inefficient use of european funds in projects with an impact on environmental objectives. both the commission and the member states can support better use of funds to deliver results. at regional and municipal level, urban planning is vital to tackling many issues of resource efficiency and environmental threats to health. therefore, it is surprising that the section of the programme that deals with cities is criticized by stakeholders for not defining clear objectives. at the municipal level, many of the measures that ensure the achievement of the objectives are applied in practice. this is why municipal authorities need clarity about the outcomes they are required to deliver and the financial and political means to implement these solutions. ladies and gentlemen, time does not allow me to mention all the points i have highlighted in my report, but i would like to thank you all for the substantial contributions and efforts made by all parties to the adoption of a compromise text. our work shows that broad political agreement can be reached on the problems, but also on the solutions. commissioner, a clear majority in the environment committee has called for a new global post-2020 agenda.
reporting officer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you all for your contribution to this debate. people expect better results in this area, they expect faster progress in areas where they are being delayed, such as tackling pollution or reducing biodiversity loss. to meet these expectations, to protect the environment more effectively, we need to learn as much as we can from the shortcomings of the current action programme, but also from its success stories, so that the eighth programme can be more effective, with better-scaled objectives. i hope that, as soon as the current programme has been evaluated, the commission will come forward with a proposal for the next one. i am convinced that with the contribution of all the institutions involved, we can have a good programme and, through closer cooperation with the national authorities, the results that citizens want can be achieved in its implementation. the european union must ensure economic growth, but in tandem with environmental protection. the new common agricultural policy, as well as transport and fisheries policies, therefore need to set ambitious targets to ensure sustainability. future european policies need to focus on innovation and eu funding should be directed more towards projects that deliver on international commitments, decarbonisation and the transition to a greener economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i welcome - and this is important - the report which aims to contribute to the revision of the european development fund and the development cooperation instrument, while analysing their relevance and that of the humanitarian aid instrument in relation to the objectives of the union's development cooperation and humanitarian aid policies. it is reassuring to note that the evaluations show that the objectives of these instruments are largely relevant to the political priorities at the time of their creation and are, in general, in line with the ambition of the sustainable development goals. however, as the report points out, it is important to note that a proliferation of crises and the emergence of new political priorities have constantly put financial pressure on the three instruments, which have thus been exploited to their limits. as regards the future, i am of the opinion that if the union is to maintain its leading position in this field, both in terms of its financial contributions to development cooperation and humanitarian aid and in terms of the soundness of its actions in this field, the new post-2020 multiannual financial framework should be able to respond to the union's global challenges and include financial allocations tailored to these challenges. i also congratulate the rapporteur, mr guerrero salom.
madam president, one of the great challenges facing the european union's agriculture is to ensure that it meets the protein requirements for both milk and meat production and human consumption. protein plants are also a resource with important environmental benefits, contributing to nitrogen fixation in the soil, increasing soil quality and, by implication, creating favourable conditions for organic farming. support for protein crops through voluntary greening payments and the second pillar should take into account the increased flexibility of support for protein crops. it is important to facilitate the use of existing financial packages and to ensure their continuity. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. however, i would point out the need to introduce new forms of support to diversify the supply of protein crops eligible for coupled support, provided that they have a high protein content and beneficial effects on the soil, as is the case with red clover.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, charles goerens, for the excellent work on this important report, which underlines worrying debt trends in developing countries. it points out very relevant issues that need to be addressed and is an important contribution to the international debate. ensuring debt sustainability is essential to achieve the sustainable development goals. for this reason, the debt management capacity of developing countries needs to be further strengthened. we need well-designed and executed debt management strategies, as well as improved data recording, reporting and analysis. borrowing and lending should take place in a responsible manner and further work by the international community is needed to create incentives for such responsible lending and borrowing, building on existing principles issued by the g-20. sustainable public finances are contingent on good public financial management, transparency, domestic revenue mobilisation and fighting against illicit financial flows. the european commission is closely monitoring the debt situation in developing countries and is active in supporting partner countries in managing their debt in a sustainable manner. for instance, we actively support the world bank’s debt management facility. we will also continue to contribute to the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) debt management and financial analysis system. through its political and policy dialogue with partner countries, the commission is helping to tackle the most critical weaknesses. budget support is a central element in our toolbox to help countries in managing their debt sustainability. we continue to monitor countries’ debt sustainability through our regular risk assessment and microeconomic analysis. we are also monitoring debt sustainability in relation to the external investment plan and to blending operations, and we respect internationally agreed debt limits. our objective is to improve transparency and oversight and to progressively strengthen our partner countries’ public finance management capacity, including investment management and procurement. in parallel, the commission is also scaling up efforts in support of domestic revenue mobilisation and the fight against illicit financial flows, in line with the addis ababa action agenda. on debt sustainability, the commission works very closely with the world bank and the imf. on 28 and 29 may this year, the commission and the world bank will organise in brussels the debt management facility stakeholders’ forum, focusing on the rising tide of debt, risk resilience and responsibility. this forum will discuss current challenges of debt policy and management in the context of increasing financing needs for development, the growing levels of debt, complexity of the debt portfolios and uncertain market conditions. it will bring together high-level policymakers from developing and emerging countries, multilateral and bilateral donors, providers of technical assistance and civil society. we count on the parliament’s participation in fruitful discussions. as regards the international monetary fund, the commission welcomes the approach in the parliament’s report, which underlines the role of the imf as a principal forum for discussing issues relating to the restructuring of sovereign debt, and notes that any further work should be carried out in coordination with the imf. the commission, however, has reservations regarding the call for the establishment of a multilateral legal framework. the eu member states, in line with the commission’s position, have consistently been in favour of applying the current international practice of encouraging a market-based voluntary approach in debt restructuring. this principle is not reflected in the parliament’s report. thank you again for putting this crucial issue on the agenda and for this report, which provides a very valuable contribution to the international debate.
in writing. i welcome this important report which highlights the need to promote more binding rules to strengthen the debt sustainability of developing countries, while making key recommendations which i strongly support. discourage lending with zero development impact; promoting funding pathways that do not burden future generations; reach agreement on an insolvency procedure for defaulting states; the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the right to development of citizens of developing countries takes precedence over the right to debt recovery. finally, i would like to stress that the union, as the world's leading actor in development cooperation, must give a new impetus to official development assistance, in particular by seeking to better regulate the provision of loans to developing countries, while playing an important role in holding the parties involved in sovereign borrowing operations to account.
when we talk about economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union, i am convinced that the future of the eu is at stake. if european and national policies fail to reduce substantially the disparities in territorial development, if they fail to achieve tangible improvements in living standards for people in and within declining regions, and if they do not accelerate the necessary infrastructure investment in the eu's least developed regions, the consequences will be unforeseeable. in the eastern half of the eu, the credibility of european integration as a whole depends on the results of cohesion policy. it would be a terrible mistake to use it as a punitive tool or to link it to policies that do not serve the goal of cohesion. cohesion policy post-2020 needs to be pursued and even strengthened, and reforms should focus on simplification. citizens expect decision-makers to be cleared of complicated and bureaucratic rules. the eu's enlargement after 2004 presented enormous challenges, as we were aware at the time. i suggest that we face this and strengthen our commitment to convergence of member states' development.
madam president, commissioner crețu, the developments of recent years at union level show that urban areas are attracting more and more citizens and concentrating more and more economic, social and cultural activities, which is why greater attention needs to be paid to the problems of peri-urban and rural areas adjacent to cities and metropolitan areas. these areas face challenges related to population concentration, but also to the existence of areas of poverty, including within relatively prosperous cities. as such, we need measures to reduce risks, such as social exclusion, which remain a major challenge for member states and the european union. i support the need to introduce integrated strategies for sustainable urban development, including in sub-regional areas, and to improve communication with european citizens, as they need to be better informed about the concrete achievements of cohesion policy and the results of the use of european funds in the regions where they live. it is important to support medium-sized cities in each member state as well, because their development can reduce the pressure on larger cities.
madam president, i'm talking about romania because in bucharest, the minister of education cut the budgets of universities that didn't applaud his appointment. political servitude is rewarded with money. unfortunately, the university of bucharest is losing hundreds of places because it dared to criticize the minister's superficial attitude to plagiarism. in a way, it's no wonder: the government is run by a person whose literacy has failed. she's not alone: a minister, daea, has become popular by saying weekly enormity. busy with this, he didn't find time to come to the agriculture council meetings even once in 2017. again, this is no exception: in most of them, the psd-alde ministers have skipped the work of the council of the european union. next year, when romania assumes the presidency of this institution, they will come unprepared, like a moon landing. citizens are taking to the streets again for a european romania. two civic organizations that organized the recent protests invited libe members to come to bucharest on may 12. come all of you and see what the socialists and liberals are doing in my country!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a turbulent time in which the fight against terrorism must become a national and european policy priority, and i am not just referring to all that is state policy, but i would also like to emphasise the responsibility of the private sector. both state institutions and large companies should work together to detect and combat discriminatory, hate speech and discourse that infringes human rights, freedoms and dignity. i stress the importance of the european union code of conduct against hate speech and also call on national and international companies to adopt it. a unified, common policy of monitoring and prevention among national and international bodies and companies is urgently needed. even social networks have understood the importance of the topic and have shown their willingness to adhere to the european union code of conduct against hate speech. it is necessary to align national legislation with the requirements of this regulation on preventing and combating terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 24 march was world tuberculosis day. although it should be a festive moment, at the level of the european union this moment is far from a joy. 2017 was a record year in terms of the increase in cases of tuberculosis, considered one of the most aggressive diseases. in this context, we should put aside the festivism and strongly call on the european commission's directorate-general for health to urgently implement the recommendations of the european parliament's resolution of 5 july 2017 on the effective fight against tuberculosis, hiv/aids and hepatitis c. without a generalised programme, applicable at the level of all member states, and without a subsidy for testing and treatment for disadvantaged groups, in a few years' time it will probably be impossible for us to control the spread of this disease.
i am pleased to inform the european parliament that a very important european citizens' initiative, the case of indigenous national minorities in the european union, has gathered the required number of signatures, some 50 million eu citizens, and is 25% above the minimum required. the commission will therefore be putting forward the minority safe pack in a few months' time, and parliament will certainly be able to deal with the matter thereafter. one of the conditions for registration of the initiative was that its subject matter should not fall outside the commission's legislative initiative competence. the commission will therefore have to submit proposals aimed at the adoption of legislation at union level in the area identified, after the necessary consultations and studies. it is time for the eu to address this issue, as it is clear that a successful citizens' initiative has already demonstrated that this is an unsolved problem of concern to citizens, which can only be addressed within a european framework and to which national minorities expect the union to respond.
madam president, the european commission has recently presented an action plan to improve the mobility of troops and military equipment on the european continent. there is talk of a military schengen. given that romania is located on the eastern border of the european union, it is clear that it will have a very important role when we discuss common defence objectives. i therefore find it deeply unfair that some member states, such as the netherlands, have for years opposed romania's accession to the schengen area, even though all the european institutions recognise that my country fulfils the accession criteria. it's a discriminatory and unfair attitude. romania cannot be an important player only for common defence objectives. romanians deserve full access and free movement of goods and people. it is clear that the opposition of some countries, such as the netherlands, is related to their own economic situation and to domestic political issues. i am afraid that the risk that such an attitude poses to the credibility of the european project is not understood. the future of the european union can only be a greater solidarity between its member states. any other approach is to make this project vulnerable.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, you said that it was not right to finance ngos through this instrument. do you think it's better to be funded from russia or other occult institutions and organizations? do you think it's better for the european union, which was created on the basis of a treaty and in which countries, states have adhered to some common rules? we also need to have tools to measure and support democratic institutions, including civil society. which do you think is better: the outside funding that i'm getting now, let's be serious, certain ngos?
member of the commission. – madam president, i will try to summarise my comments after this discussion in this vibrant european parliament and in a rather competitive atmosphere. i want to say that by supporting civil society we are not promoting any specific ideology. we are upholding the values enshrined in the treaty and in the charter of fundamental rights. i speak about universal values and one speaker spoke about japan and south korea. i am negotiating with japan, south korea and the united states the issues of protection of privacy and i can tell you we are speaking here about individual freedoms, we speak about universal values. this must be emphasised. many times i have received advice from many politicians saying that ‘if the people want to have a say, if they want to be heard, let them join political parties’ or ‘let them come once in four times to elections’, and – the advice continues – ‘be silent in the meantime’. that’s not my way of thinking because i think that the purpose of such advice is that a silent crowd is so easy to handle, and the eu doesn’t want to handle a silent crowd, we want active people. we do not fear active people in the eu. what we want to achieve with this special financial support is not the support of ngos. we want to support civil society organisations working in specific fields of policy which cover discrimination, the rights of children, the fight against sexual violence and many other things which we frequently discuss here in this house. we share the view that we need the cooperation of civil society. this house is are right: the ngos must remain independent. that’s why it is so important that the eu will not be and cannot be the only source of financial support. there must be a financial framework with multiple channels, and i am sure this will remain the case in the eu. so again my declaration today is that we are supporting it. we have to find the right process for such financing and i am ready to cooperate with the european parliament on preparing the smart plan for this intention.
in writing. today we talked about the proposal to have a european instrument for funding and supporting civil society organisations that promote democracy, the rule of law and fundamental values within the eu. i think what is needed is a strong civil society, but one that is equitable and transparent about its work and funding. this is why it is good to have a single european instrument for measurement, evaluation and financing. at the same time, ngos need to be transparent about their funding and work to give them credibility. we must not run away from the truth, we know that there are ngos in europe that are funded by other non-european countries and we must ask ourselves what is better? should we ensure transparent european funding for independent ngos or should we fund ngos that fight to undermine democracy? in a democracy, we need strong institutions, but we also need a civil society with a high level of civic responsibility and education.
president of the french republic. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing me to relive what the french constitution no longer allows me to do, namely, a debate with parliament. i was a former minister and i particularly enjoyed this exercise. i will not necessarily go back in chronological order but will try to answer the main points that have been raised. first of all, when we talk about sovereignty and national or european peoples, i would like to make a couple of clarifications to florian philippot. i'm surprised you can say what you said about this assembly you're in. you were elected by the french people. you have a strange respect for the french people to treat the function they have entrusted to you like this. (applause) if you didn't like this meeting, you shouldn't have come, that's all! (applause) you had to go to other elections, you had to submit to them. as for the project that would be the real french project, but finally, the french chose it last may. you were both defending a failed project. and he lost because the french people decided so. (applause) i would like to thank yet you express anger. i have already said many times: we must hear it, and i hear it. i have always said that, i have always had respectful debates, including during the campaign with mrs le pen, and that is also why i will not be able to make comments that judge from here what should be done in a country by telling about all the nonsense to which i responded at length last sunday. it is precisely because i am here with the legitimacy of the french people, but with all the demands of the french people, that i cannot accept what you have said about what is happening in my country. first of all, i want to tell you that there is a constitution in my country, which has not waited to incorporate the fundamental freedoms, a declaration of human rights, a preamble of 1946 and all these values, and that there is a constitutional council to judge and know if the laws respect freedom, equality and fraternity. the laws you have mentioned have been considered by the constitutional council, either by referral to parliamentarians or by a preliminary question for the law on internal security and the fight against terrorism. so you can say whatever you want, sir, because you have the comfort of this room, but i don't have the comfort of this place and i have the cohesion. i've had the courtesy to listen to you, and i'm asking you to do the same. i had this courtesy that is democratic; you're a representative, i'm another representative. the homeland security and counterterrorism act is a tool to fight islamist terrorists in our country. it is in this capacity that it allows home visits, it is in this capacity that it allows the protection of public spaces. i take full responsibility for this because i am today the president of a country which has been attacked by terrorists on many occasions. i cannot explain to my people that we are disarming ourselves in the face of this risk because people like you allow yourselves to speak untruths in the name of the principles that are anchored in our republic, defended by the constitutional council and supported by an entire parliament. in the name of my respect for the majority in parliament, as well as for the council, i cannot allow you to say the nonsense, forgive me for using that term, that you have uttered. in the same way, you have mentioned the notre-dame-des-landes project and, given the time allotted to me, i will not go into more detail. we took courageous decisions that had not been taken in 20 years to stop a project that was not in line with our objectives. but, the people who protested against this project, is it legitimate to let them demonstrate and attack the police when there is no longer any source for their protests? agricultural projects, even the most innovative ones, are always on the spot, carried out by people who comply with the rules, but freedom, equality and fraternity also presuppose respect for the republican order, and no project can be built if the rules of the republic are not respected. (applause) mr coburn can be heard shouting 'long live free france!' long live france and long live europe. i don't know what you're putting behind free france. if you put in the same thing i did, we have our place in this inquiry. many of you have raised the subject of migration. this is a subject which, and you are right to recall mr smith's figures, has much deeper roots and which we will not be able to resolve by any national policy today. that is why i believe that tackling the cause is helping to stabilise africa in terms of security and the fight against terrorism, which is what we are doing at the un and in the framework of the french barkhane intervention alongside the sahel states; it is to have an ambitious development policy which alone will enable the development and emancipation of everyone in his own country, and this is what europe has repeatedly supported through the idea of this marshall plan; this is what we support and what we do through the alliance for the sahel and our policy; and it is my decision to increase our official development assistance to reach 0.55 per cent of gross national income by 2020; it is also a policy of external and internal solidarity in europe and the key to an integrated response to the migratory risk. you have heard me speak earlier about these issues which will occupy both the council and the parliament in the coming months, but i believe very strongly that we need european solidarity at our borders to protect us, as well as solidarity within our borders. i made a proposal to that effect, but there are many others to share the burden. france is now able to enjoy cooperation with several member states in this field. i am thinking in particular of germany and italy, whom i would like to greet and i believe that we have shown, in particular with italy, over the past year that we are capable of working together. as regards the reforms in progress, i am referring to the reform of cohesion, which is aimed at making the right to asylum, which i have always defended and which i am defending vigorously, effective, but also at putting an end to a system where it takes 14 months to obtain asylum, as is the case in france, whereas it takes six months in germany, for example. the whole point of the reform that france is thus carrying out is to bring our system closer to another system, particularly that of germany or our neighbours, in terms of deadlines and organisation. the french system today is not up to the challenge of migration that we face. it is extremely long, it does not distinguish asylum seekers from other migrants, and it does not allow us to give the same kind of welcome to women and men who arrive either with visas or to seek asylum and protection. i fully accept this and, you know, when i speak of the sovereignty of an effective europe, it is because i reject the unacceptable project of a nationalist narrowing, because from where i am i have defeated it, and i also reject a form of guilty irenicism that would drape itself behind principles, forgetting that we must always at the same time maintain the cohesion of our peoples and that there is a reality to embrace. chesterton had a beautiful formula, he said, "true idealists are pragmatists". look at robinson crusoe, he didn't leave with big travel ideas but with hams and cheese and an organization to keep up with. i invite you to take a look at robinson crusoe. then, several of you have touched upon matters which are essential to the functioning of our europe. i'll try to get back to it in the time i have. first of all, mr president, on the balkans. i would like to see us pursuing two lines which seem to me to be in our interests and to be pragmatic. as regards the first, i agree with your desire to link the balkans to europe. the geopolitical risk we face is that the western balkans will drift either towards turkey or russia - that is a risk - or collapse into their own divisions. so giving them a perspective and linking them to a project and to this european ambition is essential, but i would only support enlargement if there is first a deepening and reform of our europe, and i would like us to be able to maintain this ambition along these two lines. i do not want the balkans to turn to turkey or russia, but i do not want a europe which, having had difficulty functioning at 28 and tomorrow at 27, decides that we can continue to ride and be 30 or 32 tomorrow with the same rules, that is not true. speaking of these rules, i am convinced that we need more pragmatic rules. first, if we want to move forward, let's accept it. many of you have spoken of the franco-german couple, but you have never heard me speak of the franco-german couple in my speech. so i was struck by your reaction which is inspired or informed by history. i am attached to the relationship with germany, but i have never considered that it exhausts the european subject. i simply know from history that if there is no minimum agreement between france and germany, we waste a lot of time going forward and pretending to make europe and to continue. but i always wanted to break the lines of front that had been established, to consider that we could go forward with a hard core shape that we had defined in advance. in recent months i have seen several european leaders with real ambition, who were from countries that some people call small or eastern, or this or that. there are only eu member countries and this is a project logic. but let's try to move forward with a rule that whoever doesn't want to move forward can't block the others. i also hope that we can make the reforms that are coming and move forward with this rule that was proposed by others in the past, and that we have this level of ambition. i am therefore in favour of more qualified majority voting in order to avoid a systematic logic of blocking, which i believe is fundamental. then you spoke about more institutional matters, the role of parliament, mr president, and parliamentary democracy. i am deeply attached to it and that is why i wanted these participation exercises. i'm also committed to the separation of powers that goes with a constitution. there are therefore, in the constitutions and the treaties, responsibilities which fall to parliament, others to the commission or the council. if we want to change it, we must ask the peoples to do so, and i am therefore not in favour of anyone deciding to arbitrate this or that jurisdiction and then, all at once, to go to one side or the other. moreover, i believe so much in parliamentary democracy and the vitality of the expression of the people that i proposed these transnational lists, because if we believe in the vitality of the people and democracy, we must not simply believe in it when we organize with parties in elections that remain national projections and with the participation rate that we have today. let's get to the bottom of this. we believe in parliamentary democracy, we want it to be a large parliament, we need the maximum participation in elections, so the debates must be truly european and we must therefore dare to go to a number of transnational lists, whose leaders could legitimately be the famous spitzenkandidaten. i think it is strange, however, to stop in the middle of the road and believe in parliamentary democracy if it is still a democracy of existing, structured parties, whose logic is still mainly national, it must be said. i can see the clock ticking and i know the rules the president told me about. i would have liked to have gone back to a number of other subjects, however. let me just end this with two points, one is syria, the other is the european budget and the ambitions we have to carry. i do not think that a higher budget is a problem for our fellow citizens if we are able to organise ourselves, and i do not believe that this european ambition - to clarify the point that many of you have raised - namely a stronger european budget to support our new ambitions, to support the ambition of our historic policies, this european sovereignty of which i speak, is in competition with national budgets or national sovereignty. i don't think so because when i look at the big challenges, i.e. the energy transition, digitalisation, trade, large-scale migration, we need a european response. and we see that on all these issues, the national response is debated but it is insufficient, and as such, you have given a great example of this: the general data protection regulation. it made no sense to do it at the national level, none. we would have protected nothing, there would have been circumvention policies, operators would have moved to belgium, the netherlands or germany if i had done so. you did it at the only level where it was relevant to do it and at a level where you can stand up to the big economic players but where you can create an organization, and so i assume the fact of carrying these two sovereignties because they are complementary. finally, on syria, i want to say first of all that this intervention by france, the united kingdom and the united states of america has nothing to do with iraq or libya, and for a very simple reason: we have not declared war on anyone and we have not intervened by declaring war on anyone. but it's always the same principle, basically, what i'm telling you. if we believe in multilateralism, in the rule of law, we must be able, at some point, to decide not to give in to the cynicism of those who want to 'empower' multilateralism, that is what it is all about. so, precisely because this subject, like others, does not suffer from approximation: we are committed to many in an international diplomatic and military coalition that fights against whom? this is the only war that is being fought in syria, against daesh, against the islamist terrorist groups that attacked us and that have caused hundreds of deaths in our countries. this war is legitimate, it has a framework, and we are fully involved. this is the only war we are fighting in syria today. but there is a parallel war, the one that bashar al-assad has been waging against the syrian people and their opponents for seven years now. we have not declared war on bashar al-assad, as i have said many times, and the interventions of the past few days have not changed that. we have, however, been constantly working, diplomatically and humanitarianally, to do our duty and defend our values, and i fully accept that. the un resolutions, in particular resolution 2118 of september 2013, provided for the use of coercion, which president putin was also in line with when he visited paris a little less than a year ago, when i had already presented this red line on the use of chemical weapons. indeed, there are international texts that condemn the use of chemical weapons, including resolution 2118, with a commitment from all the permanent members of the security council and a commitment, at the time, from the regime of bashar al-assad. this commitment has been violated on several occasions. on several occasions, several members of the international community have organized to "empower" the un and the international organization for the control of chemical weapons since november 2017, by destroying the opcw's allocation mechanism and then opposing all resolutions that allowed further progress. so i ask you, the same people who are always outraged by the images we have seen of children and women dying from chlorine attacks, let us sit down, let us defend our rights by saying that the rights are for us, the principles are for us, but the reality is for others. no, you can't! (applause) i would like to thank so, in a very specific context, and i will remind you of this, where we are at war with terrorists, where bashar al-assad is at war with his own people, three countries intervened, and i say this very frankly, in the honour of the international community, precisely to destroy three sites for the production and processing of chemical weapons in a legitimate multilateral context and in a targeted manner, without any human casualties. so let us face our principles, let us face international law and ask ourselves where we want to go. these strikes do not solve anything, but they simply put an end to a system to which we were so accustomed, which is that the right side would have become the side of the weak, and i did not solve it. so we will continue the essential diplomatic work in the security council to build the framework for the fight against and the prohibition of chemical weapons. it started again with the same russian vetoes. we will continue to fight at the united nations to ensure humanitarian access and evacuation in ghouta, as we will unfortunately do tomorrow in idlib. we will continue the humanitarian work on the ground, and i announced it yesterday, with france investing €50 million for projects carried out by non-governmental organisations on the ground, and i invite all countries to join this humanitarian effort. finally, we will continue to work towards an inclusive political solution by talking to all parties, russia, turkey, iran as well as the regime and, above all, all opposition forces, to build the syria of tomorrow and to fix this country, because that is what is essential. but we will not build the syria of tomorrow if we turn a blind eye and leave it to the regime of bashar al-assad and his allies, once they have finished their dirty work. i'm telling you straight.
mr. president, i represent a country that the french love very much: romania. the europe of the future, mr president, is a europe where no one is left behind. this is why the discussion of a multi-speed europe creates confusion and weakens citizens' trust in the european project. beyond the theoretical debate about the future, we live in the present and we must act now. we need to provide a multiannual budget geared towards growth and investment and i congratulate you, mr president, for engaging france to contribute more. we need to take seriously the implementation of the legislation we have, to meet our commitments and to each solve our own internal problems before we commit ourselves to fixing the shortcomings of others. each member state is a pillar of the european union's resilience and you cannot have a strong structure with feet of clay, because - is that not so, mr president? - the future of europe does not solve the present of any of us.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i wish the european union the best, a united and strong union, a union which is a democratic world power with global interests. but, mr president, i must say that i do not agree with your two-speed europe. this would be quite dangerous for central and eastern europe. once again, we cannot have differences in development between western europe and central and eastern europe. mr president, we need a europe of unity and solidarity.
president macron, you are pro-european. i'm also pro-european. i'm right here, behind you. i am also pro-european and i congratulate you on what you have said here, but you have disagreed on one point and i would like you to answer me, perhaps clarify. i agree with you that we should not have an authoritarian democracy, but we should have the authority of democracy. this is very important. but don't you think that your statements about france and germany being the hard core and leading and this arrogance of being a power over the other states leads to euroscepticism? how can we convince the citizens of my country, romania, that we are equals at the negotiating table, when you have declared that you want a two-speed europe, that you want to be two states that are 'more states' than the others? how can we reform europe, as you have said, if you want this disparity between member states?
in writing. – your campaign, mr president macron, l’europe en marche! reminds us that indeed, we europeans are all in march confronting several battles, which we better win if we want our union to last for the generations to come. the greatest battle of all is the one with the enormous disparities, the ever rising inequality and the poverty. for millions of europeans life in dignity is out of reach simply because they are desperately poor! masses to be manipulated by populists and anti-europeans. mr president macron, we will not win this war with a new finance minister for europe! neither by creating a special eurozone parliament! nor will europe win in a two-speed format! the eu will win the battle against poverty by enforcing solidarity between all its willing members, by enhancing cohesion policies and by better financing its common policies!
in writing. i represent an important country: romania. i'm a law professor and a lawyer. this makes me look at things from the perspective of respecting the letter of the law and the partnership agreements between member states. we are at a point where the european union is deeply affected by the dynamics of global economic, social and political change. it is a point where, as you have also stressed, we must arm ourselves with strength and go forward strong and united. the essence of the european union is unity and acceptance of diversity of values as does the state you successfully represent. in such a context, mr president macron, we are talking about our capacity, of all of us, to accept the national policies of each state and to agree that any form of intrusion into domestic politics is not appropriate. we are partners. so i ask you: do you think that the future evolution of the european union at the accelerated pace that you talk about will create a segregation based on the democratic policies and values of each state?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, commissioner, dear colleague, you said, among other things, that we should not be afraid of migration and you are right, we should not be afraid of people of other people. the question i want to ask now is: do you think that now, when we are discussing the issue of migration, the european union has a coherent plan to ensure, on the one hand, the safety of migrants, and on the other hand, a fair selection of those who migrate for economic reasons or because of war? do you think we have the right security and the right selection? and do we have a plan for returning migrants?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the length and the horrors of the syrian conflict are impossible to describe, and i believe they will be on our conscience in the long term. i was appalled by the cynical positioning of some, including in this house, on monday evening who, since the last chemical attacks, were denying the obvious lightening up of the seriousness of the attacks and others before. do we really have to choose between fighting terrorism and promoting civilian and human rights? i don’t think so. i will make clear once again that assad is engaging in what the un has termed the ‘crime of extermination’. the vast majority of the syrian victims were killed by the syrian—russian—iranian alliance in deliberate, indiscriminate attacks. they have targeted hospitals and rescue workers, and they are impeding humanitarian aid to those in need. several chemical attacks have been committed in this country. there is no doubt about that, and there is no doubt that these are unacceptable acts under international law in the geneva conventions. the targeted us, french and uk air strikes were a necessary response in order to prevent the future use of chemical weapons. russia has vetoed 11 times – i repeat, 11 times – the un security council resolutions on syria, and undermines the ones adopted. i am firmly convinced that the only solution for ending the war in syria is a negotiated political solution, where europe should work in coordination with the un in general and the un security council. what remains to be done today? i will continue our calls for a ceasefire to implement the resolutions on the territory. it is necessary to reinvigorate the un political process, and formally we have to support the work of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) and its findings on syria. finally, we urge the eu to rapidly re—establish an independent attribution mechanism to ensure accountability.
madam president, a month ago, president putin was re-elected again until 2024. since stalin, no president has been in the kremlin for more than two decades. the cold war has returned with a vengeance, as antónio guterres said. six more years with putin means support for the use of chemical weapons, support for dictatorships, the division of european states, the attempt to destroy democracies in various european states and across the atlantic and means creating and maintaining conflicts intentionally to give the kremlin and putin an iron fist to say "i will intervene and solve"; it means, of course, also the maintenance of old conflicts. i would like to repeat once again: the cold war is back ... (president interrupts speaker)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, colleague, of course, it has been discussed here, russia is a problem from the point of view of democratic behaviour, but i refer to what you said. consider that we need to have additional sanctions. earlier, another colleague suggested that we look at how we can find solutions, because there is a suffering of farmers in import, export between russia and europeans. what do you propose? what additional sanctions have you considered? because i hope you're not thinking of conflict, but of a diplomatic relationship. what are the penalties that you see?
madam president, it seems very clear that the european union states do not have a common position towards russia. this is our main problem: we don’t have a common foreign policy concerning russia. unfortunately, i have to agree with high commissioner mogherini: we are seeing an evolving pattern of challenging, negative russian behaviour in various fields which include, of course, syria. we cannot continue on this path. we have to talk with russia only after they stop what they are doing in syria. when are they going to withdraw their troops from eastern ukraine and also from crimea, when are they going to withdraw their troops from transnistria, when are they going to stop challenging all the eastern partnership countries associated with the european union, the republic of moldova, ukraine, georgia and so on.... (the speaker was interrupted by the president.)
in writing. situation in russia as of 17 april 2018. the solidarity between the member states of the european union is shown by the unanimous assurance of support given by the leaders of all the member states to the united kingdom government in the wake of the salisbury attack. the european council conclusions expressly state that the heads of state or government agree with the findings that the russian federation is in all probability responsible for the attack and that there is no other plausible explanation. i think that the situation we have created shows that we need solidarity between the eu member states, because that is the only way we can have a significant presence in world politics. it is also clear that the member states have unquestioningly stood together in such a serious and grave case, which shows the strength and unity of the eu. this also highlights the damage that can be done when the concept of solidarity is placed at the centre of political debates and forgotten, which are the issues where consensus and joint action are really important.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, recent developments in the korean peninsula since the beginning of this year are encouraging. we were glad to hear that the republic of korea and the democratic people’s republic of korea have agreed on a date – 27 april – for the inter-korean summit meeting on the southern side of the joint security area, and are actively preparing for it. the planned meeting between us president trump and dprk leader kim jong un, is another historic opportunity to launch a process which may lead to denuclearisation and lasting peace on the peninsula. we are looking forward to the outcomes of this summit and we are following the preparations closely. we firmly hope that they will foster trust and become building blocks for a process of negotiations leading to stability and development in both countries. trust is essential. history has taught us that peace-making can be a long and fragile process. once trust is broken, it takes a long time and serious efforts to rebuild. many remain cautious about the prospects for peace on the peninsula, despite recent encouraging signals. indeed, north korea must take concrete action to address international concerns with regard to its nuclear and missile programmes. to begin with, we expect that the dprk will enter into a negotiation on denuclearisation and refrain from further tests on nuclear weapons or re-launching missiles. a peaceful environment will be crucial to create the necessary conditions towards the negotiated solution. the recent positive developments would have been impossible without the leadership and courage shown by president moon and his government in reaching out towards the north. the european union has always supported the leading role of the republic of korea in assuring the engagement of the dprk in a meaningful dialogue, aimed at a complete verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation. the korean foreign minister, ms kang, took part in the foreign affairs council on march 19 to discuss the state of play and the way forward. this meeting provided an opportunity to pledge the eu’s continuous support to the work of the republic of korea. we reiterated our position in favour of a peaceful resolution on the crisis, and we also confirmed that the strict monitoring of dprk commitment to de-nuclearisation will be necessary. our support to furthering the diplomatic process, combined with sustained pressure through sanctions was reaffirmed by the secretary-general of the european external action service at the end of march, on a visit to the republic of korea and japan. clearly, through our policy of critical engagement, we have been maximising pressure on the dprk. the eu has transposed all un security council resolutions in a swift and timely manner. additionally, the european union has adopted autonomous measures against dprk. we can safely confirm that the eu sanctions regime vis-à-vis dprk is currently our most restrictive towards any country. we approached a significant number of countries in africa, in asia last autumn, and will do so shortly again to encourage them to fully and strictly implement all un security council resolutions. this time we will also include an offer of concrete support for capacity-building on sanctions enforcements where needed. it is of the utmost importance that the international community remains united and determined in its approach, and calls on the dprk to completely abandon its nuclear and missile programmes. we would thus maintain the direct and indirect pressure on north korea until it embarks on a credible path towards complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation. talks for the sake of talks are not an option. this has to be a meaningful process towards peace. at the same time, pressure and sanctions are not an end in themselves. they are always an instrument to encourage a political process. the european union is strongly convinced that lasting peace and denuclearisation of the korean peninsula must be achieved through peaceful means. this is why we have welcomed these new high-level initiatives which will give diplomacy a chance. and in parallel to our current strong focus on the critical track, we have always kept communication channels open. we also believe that the multilateral process will be necessary to address the dprk nuclear issue in its entire complexity and achieve lasting peace and security on the korean peninsula. once agreed, consistent monitoring and verification of the de-nuclearisation by respective international bodies such as the international atomic energy agency will be needed to ensure that dprk is be strictly and fully implementing its commitments. the european union will be ready to support these processes, in close consultations with the key partners. the european union has a huge expertise on nuclear non-proliferation, particularly thanks to the talks with iran. we are now willing to support the korean peace process in any possible way. once again, we are on the side of non-proliferation and we are on the side of peace.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, we can only welcome with optimism the positive news coming from the korean peninsula. the two summits, the one between the two koreas and the one between president trump and the north korean leader, are steps in the right direction. the us-north korea summit is highly anticipated and highly commented upon as it will be unprecedented, but this is not the first attempt to persuade the north korean regime to abandon its nuclear programme. i think we should focus less on the details of this meeting and more on the key points which are: what can we promise the north korean leader and, most importantly, what will he ask in return? two elements seem to me to be significant. firstly, north korea is seeking international recognition of its nuclear status and we must absolutely avoid granting it such recognition. that is why we must categorically refuse to lift, even partially, sanctions until we have long-term guarantees of the complete, irreversible and verifiable dismantling of nuclear installations. these guarantees are also in line with the obligations of the non-proliferation treaty. secondly, maintaining pressure on the regime is an absolute necessity. we should not reward kim jong-un for agreeing to dialogue. the time of trust will come when there is genuine openness and an improvement in the human rights situation and the living conditions of the north koreans, who, let us not forget, still suffer greatly from malnutrition, torture and slavery. so let's be optimistic but keep our heads. north korea is one of the most authoritarian and brutal regimes in the world that has put everything into its nuclear arsenal, and i'm not convinced that kim jong-un is making any promises of change here.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i will start by saying in bulgarian: благодаря, госпожа министър панайотова – thank you very much, ms panayotova, for your remarks. now, please remember that, when we last discussed the situation in north korea a few months ago, not many of us would have imagined that today we could discuss such developments, or even the wording ‘prospects of peace’. let’s be cautiously optimistic: the winter olympics have contributed to the softening of tensions, but there is no doubt that we have to be thankful to the international community for being united in condemning north korea’s ballistic missiles and nuclear programme and exercising strong pressure, and to president moon jae-in of south korea for showing incredible leadership and commitment to peace. the eu played an important role here. we imposed sanctions that went even beyond those adopted by the un security council, and high representative mogherini used all the diplomatic tools at her disposal to mediate the contacts between the two sides. this is indeed a crucial moment. we have to be optimistic but realistic at the same time. it is an opportunity that should not be missed, but it is not all in our hands and we need to keep our guard up. the visit of kim jong-un to beijing and the upcoming summit between the two koreas’ leaders and between the north korean leader and the us president are very encouraging steps towards a negotiated solution. peace, security and stability in the korean peninsula are key not only for the region, but for the entire world. i thank once again high representative mogherini for her not always visible but still effective work, and i trust the eu diplomatic efforts that will continue at this crucial moment.
mr. president, madam secretary, i'm glad you are optimistic. all afternoon, we've been discussing foreign policy. we talked about syria, we talked about russia, and now we're talking about the korean peninsula. but i think we have to be cautious in our optimism, because, you know, on march 7th, the president of south korea said it's too early to be optimistic about the denuclearization of the korean peninsula. he was also concerned and hopeful about progress in the united states' dialogue with north korea, and, of course, china is important in that equation as well. but i do believe that we, the european commission, the council, the european union, have to think about how we can support south korea. it's a country with democracy, a country with a developing economy, it's an example for asia. i've visited south korea several times as a member of the delegation, and i think it's good to think about how we can support sanctions, because the president of south korea said that he would not be able to support sanctions on north korea on his own. and i also believe that together, together not just us, the european union, but together with the other institutions, we must support peace in the peninsula.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, many thanks to the rapporteur and to colleagues for the solid text we have before us today. it is clear that we need to enhance the effectiveness of our external financing instruments. we need an architecture that is able to match the unprecedented challenges we are confronted with. in the context of the preparation of the commission’s proposal for the next mff, the commission and the european external action service are discussing the structure of the external financing instruments to simplify the architecture and enhance flexibility. we must ensure that appropriate safeguards in terms of parliamentary scrutiny are put in place. a simplified architecture of the instruments achieved through their consolidation would have to be accompanied by a new oversight model of governance and parliamentary scrutiny, ensuring full accountability. in addition, a consolidation of instruments would have very political implications, even more so in the context of brexit and budget pressure. current priorities this house has fought hard for – human rights, development, enlargement and neighbourhood policy, to name just a few – must remain at the heart of our external action.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, ms schaake, and the team of shadow rapporteurs on the very good report. we have nine financial instruments which are working well, but for the next period, after 2020, we could improve the efficiency of many of these instruments. in the light of the wars and conflicts and rising tensions outside eu borders, i stress the importance of further strengthening, post-2020, the architecture of the european instrument for democracy and human rights, which could bring massive eu added value, as it cooperates directly with human rights defenders and local civil society organisations around the world, without the need for the approval of national authorities. the instrument needs clearer and more strategic objectives which are totally independent of other instruments in order to bring more feasible solutions on, critically, human rights violations in countries like syria and turkey, which were intensely debated last time in our plenary. secondly, i would like to welcome the news that the instrument contributing to stability and peace, in addition to the support for security initiatives and peace-building activities, will now provide funds for training measures and equipment supplies to third countries working towards the sustainable development goals. nevertheless, we need the establishment of solid and transparent monitoring and evaluation systems that are consistent for all instruments.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms delvaux, for her excellent work and for the positive conclusions she has reached. since taking office, the juncker commission has committed itself to give real effect to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we want to work with national parliaments and eu institutions to ensure that every proposal complies with these principles and we improve our shared understanding of what subsidiarity and proportionality mean. the interinstitutional agreement on better law—making, which the three institutions signed two years ago, puts renewed focus on ensuring that these principles are fully respected when developing the union’s legislation and assessing its impact. we have shown this joint commitment to bring about the change that citizens wish to see in europe. my colleague, first vice—president frans timmermans would have liked to be here this evening, but had to travel to luxembourg for the general affairs council. under his steer, the college has invested heavily in the better regulation agenda. we have made important steps towards more transparency, more public participation and more evidence—based rule—making. this has truly been a cultural change and it has borne results. to build on this, as announced by president juncker in his 2017 state of the union address, the commission set up the task force on subsidiarity, proportionality and doing less more efficiently in november 2017. we want to ensure that decisions are balanced and taken at the appropriate level, whether it is european, national, regional or local, and we need to discuss whether there are policy areas where competences could meaningfully be re—delegated to member states. the commission has taken note of the parliament’s decision not to join the task force. we also continue to stress that the seats earmarked for parliament remain open, should parliament reconsider. however, we welcome that the report which we are discussing today confronts the parliament’s interest in helping improve the application and monitoring of the subsidiarity principle. many of your suggestions are very similar to ideas currently being examined by the task force. as regards the subsidiarity control mechanism, we agree that national parliaments should be clear in explaining the reasons for which they consider that a proposal does not respect the subsidiarity principle. your report also asked the commission to share its replies to national parliaments’ reasoned opinions with this house. let me recall that we publish our replies on our website. i note the suggestion for the commission to reflect on excluding recess periods from the eight—week period, as we have done for the month of august. the eight—week period is laid down in the treaty, but we are looking at the question in the task force on subsidiarity, proportionality and doing less more efficiently. the commission does not have a monopoly on good ideas. we are therefore always ready to discuss constructive suggestions from national parliaments. in 2015, a first green card initiative on food waste was supported by 18 chambers. many of the suggestions made were then reflected in the circular economy package which the commission adopted in december 2015. i agree with you that such an initiative shows how national parliaments can play a constructive role in the institutional framework. we believe our focus should now be on using the current mechanisms to the full, rather than embarking on a lengthy institutional debate when we know that formal changes could well require treaty changes.
the committee on constitutional affairs has tabled a number of amendments to the report. madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs delvaux for the drafting of this report. i also thank my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs for having taken into account a number of the suggestions in the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs which i drafted. there is a good convergence of views between our two committees on the fact that the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality are very useful instruments to enable us to assess the implementation of these fundamental principles and the safeguarding of the prerogatives that have been recognised to the national parliaments. there is also convergence in the observation that the mechanisms ensuring respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are working well for the most part. this is clearly seen in the limited number of 'yellow cards' adopted, in the statistics on reasoned opinions and in the diversity of the national chambers that issue them. there is clearly a strong interest in european affairs in our national parliaments and the european parliament has become a privileged interlocutor in these exchanges. finally, i would mention that in our opinion in the committee on constitutional affairs we stressed the need to introduce a certain amount of flexibility in the early warning system in the interpretation of the eight-week period, an idea which was detailed in the rangel report on the implementation of the treaty provisions concerning national parliaments.
mr president, i will refer first to salisbury: the salisbury chemical attack brings many elements of great concern. it was not only the first use of chemical weapons on european soil since world war ii, but it also showed that the perpetrators had no problem in exposing a high number of civilians to the deadly effects of novichok. let us be clear: not only the uk was targeted by the attack; the attack showed that we could all be targeted at any moment. this needed a strong response, and i welcome the united position of the council. on the western balkans, finally let me say a few words on this event, which is of historical importance for the region. yesterday, recommendations which were benedicted by the council before for albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to open up the negotiations represent a well-deserved step forward and a clear signal for the whole western balkans region, which requires in the future additional efforts. we have always said that the union includes all its components, and the western balkans is an intrinsic part of the union. for that reason, i again welcome very much the wisdom and the wise decision of the council. on syria, i have only two points. first, i think it is important for the eu to cooperate through its security members to guarantee a political solution for syria and the strategy for the post-war phase. second – and it is very urgent on the un security decision – to rapidly establish an independent attribution mechanism to ensure accountability for the perpetrators of chemical attacks.
mr president, mr tusk, mr juncker, i want to refer to the conclusions that mr tusk very succinctly told us. you are an optimist, mr. president, and i'm glad. a leader needs to be optimistic, but you also need to look down. do you think that we, the people here, and especially the citizens of our country, of our countries, are as optimistic? we have a year until the european parliament elections. let's give citizens a reason to believe in the european project. everything you have said as topics discussed in the council is very important, but if it is not based on social cohesion, on a better life, on the security of citizens and without differences, not as a president of a state said yesterday here that yes, two countries must lead and the rest ... so, to obey. this is not the message we need to take to our countries. mr macron's message has been heard in my country and in other countries, not just in france and germany. mr president, please discuss this in the council, and come up with messages to get citizens to align themselves with this european union project which is extremely important for us, for all of us.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is a real pleasure for me to participate today in this important debate on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2016 in the context of the annual discharge procedure, as foreseen in article 319 of the treaty. the efficient use of eu funds in full respect of the principle of sound financial management is of utmost importance. the delivery of good results is particularly important. indeed, it reassures citizens that every single euro spent on an action financed by the eu budget is spent properly and effectively. i would like to respond to the question of ms gräßle, i would like to confirm that the preparatory bodies have examined how we can progress on the ep proposal for a procedure of cooperation between our two institutions during the discharge procedure. the council will soon adopt a mandate to start the discussions with the european parliament. on 26 february, my colleague, bulgarian deputy minister of finance, ms petrova, has had the honour of presenting the council recommendation to grant discharge to the commission in front of the committee on budgetary control. tomorrow, i believe this plenary will confirm the vote of the committee and grant discharge to the commission. i am glad to note that the european parliament and the council are able to agree on this important issue. the council welcomes the fact that, for the first time since the court started providing a statement of assurance, in 1994, the court has given a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of payments. additionally, the council welcomes the gradual reduction of the overall estimated level of error reported by the court during the last years. nevertheless, the council regrets that the overall estimated level of error reported by the council for 2016 payments at 3.1% is above the benchmark of 2%. the council, therefore, reiterates its wish to see further improvements in the financial management systems and in the estimated level of error across all policy areas. one must recognise what has already been achieved and, in this context, the council appreciates the efforts and actions taken by the commission and the member states. the council notes with satisfaction that the market and direct support expenditure in heading 2 was not affected by material error in 2016. this positive result is particularly relevant as market and direct support represents three-quarters of the expenditure of the heading. but there is still work to be done. the council calls upon both the commission and the member states to implement the council’s recommendations. it also calls on member states to continue cooperating with the commission and to prioritise an increase in the quality, rather than quantity, of first-level checks in order to prevent, detect and correct errors. the council also stresses the fact that controls are not without cost, taking into account the complexity of policies and programmes. therefore, a balance has to be found between the risk of error and the cost of control and audit, focusing on better controls rather than more controls. the council agrees with the parliament that simplification of rules remains paramount in reducing the error rates. simplification and improved guidance not only reduces the administrative burden on the beneficiaries and respective authorities, but also allows for efficient and less costly controls. we reached a political agreement on the revision of the financial regulation three weeks ago, and this revision should have a positive impact. i would like to emphasise that prevention is always better than correction. the commission should apply preventive measures, such as interruption and suspension of payments, strictly in line with the relevant rules. the council also reiterates the need to continue to apply financial corrections and recoveries rigorously, in line with the relevant rules, in order to protect the eu budget. in this context, the council regrets that not all actors involved made full use of the available information to prevent, detect and correct a significant proportion of the errors. this could have substantially reduced the estimated level of error, bringing it closer to the materiality threshold across all chapters of expenditure. mr president, honourable members, let me now turn to budgetary and financial management, and the predictability of eu funding. the council takes note that the gap between adopted and used payment appropriations increased in 2016. we acknowledge that the pressure on payments can be expected to increase in the coming years. therefore, we call on the commission to anticipate an orderly disbursement of payments in order to avoid any shortage of appropriations. the council is concerned about the court’s observation that the outstanding commitments are increasing. it calls on the commission to continue monitoring this matter and to ensure an orderly balance between commitment and payment appropriations. the council takes note of the court’s observation on the increasing financial exposure of the eu budget, due to long-term liabilities, guarantees and legal obligations. the council calls on the commission to closely monitor their development and the associated financial risk. the council calls on the commission to improve the transparency, simplicity and accountability of all eu budgetary instruments. to conclude, let me recall that the pressure on the eu and national finances is still a reality in the current economic outlook. this will require, from all institutions and stakeholders, a more careful management of eu funds, as well as better forecasting of long-term funding requirements.let us ensure that eu money is used to achieve results that could not be achieved as efficiently or effectively by other means. we have to send a clear signal to european citizens and taxpayers that european union funds are used in a responsible and accountable manner.
member of the commission. mr president, madam minister, mr president, mr lazarou, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by paying tribute to the varied and valuable work of all the rapporteurs. i believe that through you and through joint monitoring we can provide excellent information on the european budgets and thus be able to say to the taxpayers: yes, we know what is going well, where we can make improvements, what has gone wrong or what is going on. for me, the discharge procedure for 2016 is a retrospective, a review of the current implementation of the budget, but above all a guide for the next financial framework. we see in your critical suggestions first of all constructive advice on what can be done better in the next period 2021-2027. we shall present our package on 2 may, and the implementing rules will follow in the weeks that follow, and then, i hope, they will be a constructive basis for you - parliament and the council - to invest our citizens' funds even better, to avoid even more bad investments. the committee on budgetary control has interviewed many of my colleagues - commissioners who manage and are responsible for larger budget volumes - and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this respect. there were also written requests, and we tried to respond to all of them in a constructive, open and transparent manner. we're not happy, but we're content. for the tenth consecutive year, we have received a full audit opinion on the reliability of the european union's accounts. the court found that the error rate for around half of the eu budget was below 2%, and for the first time there was a limited audit judgment on this and that. we have made relevant improvements in the area of financial management. the error rate decreased from 3,8% in 2015 to 3,1%. at the same time, we must recognize that there are also less good assessments. we have significant delays in the implementation of our programmes for the period 2014-2020. the discharge process may take too long. we do not yet have sufficient budgetary flexibility to respond properly to unexpected developments, events - migration, disasters - with financial aid. they're asking us to respond. i 'll tell you what . the commission will look at all your expectations and demands and will report back to you in a few months on the measures we have proposed and taken. i believe that this gives us a chance to further optimise the european budget and the added value which it should and does bring. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will take full account of your requests today and of the court of auditors' recommendations. we are all about value. every euro invested in europe, every project, every programme needs proof that there is added value. otherwise, european investment would be secondary to national, regional or local investment. we shall be guided by this in the next budgetary framework. we want to give you a better and more transparent and informative account of our achievements. we will have to consider the role of n+2 for cohesion policy. and we want to simplify things considerably, from horizon to the cap to cohesion. our rules are too complex, they frighten some citizens, some applicants, they require too much time from too many people who are involved in the processing of applications, the accounting and the controls. the subject of agencies was also mentioned. agencies do an outstanding job decentrally in the spirit of the european project. we can see very clearly that we must also increase the proportion of women in management positions. i'm gonna record this. the pay structure is as much a concern to us as it is to the general public. we have a salary structure which applies to brussels, luxembourg, sofia and athens. and then we have the corrective mechanisms that in some places in europe you only get two thirds of the salary in brussels. if someone is transferred from brussels to sofia, but has bought an apartment here and has to pay for it, he has fixed costs. it's not just the cost of living in sofia, it's his lifestyle, which hardly changes. this has to do with our staff regulations. we take note of that. we may need to modernise and reform our staff regulations in the foreseeable future. but i tell you what . if some members of the council then demand further reductions in staff, i shall be reluctant to open the box. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we've now reached the lower limit of what we need to accomplish the task. the subject of commitments and payments was mentioned. i would also like to say something quite frankly: the present budgetary framework was adopted too late. i am addressing the house and the council. we shall present the budgetary framework on 2 may. my request is that you take the next budgetary framework as our joint priority from 3 may. we are now in the sixth financial framework which we are going to present, and we have never had a european choice between the commission's proposal and its entry into force. either this parliament is willing to discuss the budget for the next decade and the council and the presidencies of bulgaria, austria and romania are willing to see this as a priority. we can then adopt a budgetary framework at easter next year. i am grateful to the rapporteurs of this parliament for making this a priority. i see that many heads of state and government, all of whom i admire, have not yet come to the realization that the budgetary framework is their main priority. some believe that the later the better. and if we do not vote on the budget until 2020, we will make the same mistake as in 2013: we will vote too late. we are therefore faced with wasted time again and will not have stable development between commitments and payments. that is, madam minister, my request would be and your prime minister, mr borissov, is ready to: i would ask him to tell his colleagues: let us make this a priority from 3 may, also in the european council, also among our leaders. we can then make the criticism that has come today, which was justified, avoidable in the future. our goal must be to keep the error rate below 2%. but i'm grateful that the failure rate is no longer the bible, but success orientation, performance evaluation, value added is the focus. in this sense, i believe that between the court of auditors, the committee on budgetary control, parliament and the council and the commission, a development has begun which is important and correct for the taxpayer and which must be developed further.
court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank the committee on budgetary control, its chairman, mrs gräßle, and the various rapporteurs, and in particular mr zeller, on behalf of mr lazaros s. lazarou, the member of the court responsible for the annual report, who is sitting behind me today, and express my appreciation for their efforts in bringing this year's discharge procedure to a successful conclusion. commissioner oettinger has already mentioned that the court has also issued a full audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts for 2016 this year. this is nothing new. the court of auditors' limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the annual accounts for the financial year 2016 is new. the entitlement payments were not materially affected by errors. we are assuming an estimated error rate of 1.3%. however, the error rate for reimbursement-based payments is still above the materiality threshold of an estimated 4,8%. this limited examination judgment certainly created a different and new dynamic which contributed to the conclusion of this year's discharge procedure. however, it should be noted that the estimated error rate could have been even lower if the commission or other bodies, including in particular the bodies responsible for managing european funds in the member states, had made proper use of the available information to prevent, detect and correct errors before the expenditure was recognised. this alone shows that there is still clear potential for further improvement. as you know, in addition to its general annual report, the court publishes special annual reports on all the eea agencies. i would like to mention only one agency, and it was mentioned before the debate, namely the asylum support office, for which the court was unable to give a positive opinion this time on the legality and regularity of the underlying payments. this is particularly due to the fact that there have been problems in the implementation of procurement procedures at this office, at this agency. i understand from the draft resolution that parliament will probably postpone the discharge until further inquiries are made and the matter is kept under review. the rapporteur, mr staes, has already announced that. the discharge procedure is about looking back. but in many cases your remarks have implications for the future and, of course, in particular for the future multiannual financial framework (mff). in this context, the court has and will continue to provide policy-makers with a wide range of input to support their deliberations, based on its findings. in the last two months, we have adopted a first series of thematic papers on the future of european finance, the future of the common agricultural policy and research funding beyond 2020. we are also working on a paper on simplifying the european structures of investment funds in cohesion policy. we will continue to raise this issue in our formal comments on the commission's legislative proposals for the next medium-term financial framework and on the main spending programmes. we believe it is essential that we can learn from the previous generation of programmes before decisions are made for the next generation of programmes. i would also like to point out that the commitments still to be settled are forecast to amount to eur 262 billion by 2020. it is extremely important to deal with this issue in the next mff and i was pleased to note that all three institutions involved in the legislation have expressed their support for this. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. for the financial year 2017, we have started to assess the reliability of the information provided by the commission on the legality and regularity of cohesion expenditure. this is done by consulting audit files and by following up on-the-spot audits carried out by the commission and the member state authorities. the aim is clear: to test systems and, as has already been said, to have fewer but better tests as a result. these results will also feed into our overall audit judgment on the legality and regularity of eu expenditure. we at the court attach great importance to this new approach, as we believe it offers the opportunity to provide better information to our stakeholders, but also to the public, by creating more capacity for better audits. the rapporteur, mr zeller, put this into the central phrase earlier: 'compliance remains important, but performance is becoming more important'. and for that we also need free resources within the court of auditors. i would like to conclude by briefly referring to the institution whose president i have the honour of being, because the court is of course also subject to the discharge procedure. the court welcomes the support expressed by parliament in its resolution on several points, in particular on the overall prudent and economic management of the court's budget, its organisational reform of 2016, its good cooperation with the committee on budgetary control and the important follow-up also in the european parliament's specialised committees, its new rules on official vehicles and the court's environmental policy. i am also pleased to report that we have recently strengthened our internal controls and revised the rules on budgetary matters, missions and the representation expenses of members of the court in order to promptly address any deficiencies identified and to increase transparency. in addition, our institution has decided to ask a number of european and international supreme audit authorities to subject the court to another peer review procedure. from next year, the peers will therefore examine how well the court has been implementing its strategic objectives and make recommendations on further action. this is the third time this century that the court has faced such expert review, and it is open to external and independent scrutiny and advice from sister organisations with a similar remit. finally, we note that this house is seeking to complete the discharge procedure within the year following the financial year in question. this would have - and the commissioner has already mentioned this - the undeniable advantage of being able to draw lessons directly from one year for the next. we all know that this question of timing involves a multitude of actors and deadlines. but we as the court are of course always prepared to do our utmost to ensure a timely discharge procedure, without, however, compromising the availability of data of the highest possible quality.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, first of all, i would like to put an emphasis on the fact that in the light of the post—2020 multiannual financial framework (mff), the union budget should be a true european added—value budget aimed at common objectives promoting the sustainable economic and social development of the whole union, of all states. moreover, the discharge exercise constitutes an important task for the european parliament, which must be implemented with the greatest political responsibility, having in mind and defending eu taxpayers and citizens’ interests. as rapporteur for the committee on development’s opinion on the discharge for 2016, i would like to recall the union’s collective commitment to raise the union’s and the member states’ official development assistance to 0.7% of gross national income. according to recent figures, eu assistance has increased for the fourth year in a row and attained its highest level to date. while welcoming this progress, efforts have to go much further in order to meet the pledge taken in 2005 and to achieve the sustainable development goals. i would like to conclude by making reference to the use of budget support. while supporting the latter, i share the opinion that the commission should better define the development outcomes to be achieved in each case, and above all to enhance control mechanisms concerning recipient states’ conduct in the fields of corruption, respect for human rights, rule of law and democracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the committee on foreign affairs has dealt with both the discharge for the commission, focusing on foreign policy aspects, and the discharge for the european external action service. so i will briefly refer to both. as regards the commission, there was a decrease in the level of material errors in foreign policy in 2016. i hope that in the future the level will fall below 2%. i encourage the commission to implement the recommendations of the court of auditors, i welcome the progress made in aligning the civilian missions carried out under the common security and defence policy with financial regulation, and i ask that this work be continued at high speed. as regards the european external action service, i am pleased to see that the administrative budget has been implemented without material error. in particular, it should draw attention to the importance of reducing as soon as possible the imbalance in human resources, especially for management posts, on three axes: gender, membership of a new or old member state and, finally, the proportion of union and member state officials.
in writing. the european aviation safety agency is responsible for ensuring safety and environmental protection in the field of air transport in europe. its role is to develop the european union's single aviation market, develop technical aviation rules and promote european and international safety standards. the agency's role is to ensure the highest level of aviation safety throughout europe, which is why the entry into force of the european drone regulation needs to be accelerated, especially in the context of rapidly developing civil aviation. an additional reason to allocate sufficient financial, material and human resources is to complete the regulatory and executive tasks in the areas of safety and environmental protection. the commission notes that the court of auditors' report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2016 and the court of auditors' conclusions are in line with the applicable rules and laws, are transparent through the 18 ex-post controls carried out in 2016 and have overall established the legality and regularity of all the operations checked.
mr president, yes, i have an oral amendment. it is basically adding one word to paragraph 38, amendment one. the text now reads: ‘listing membership to any other organisations, allowing for internal independent scrutiny;’. it refers to the agencies. my oral amendment is to add the word ‘professional’, for clarity of the text. therefore, the final text should read: ‘listing membership to any other professional organisations, allowing for internal independent scrutiny;’. so we add the word ‘professional’.
mr. chairman, i will be very brief. the report we voted on today is extremely important. it addresses the issue of global migration, the issues that we as the eu are facing. on the other hand, i must say that i am relatively disappointed with the report itself, because it remains in a very general position. the future is clear, and un analysis and experts warn that migration will inevitably come to europe and vice versa. because of climate change, the migration waves can be much larger. and we should really be discussing, in addition to the general theses contained in this report, concrete solutions, concrete scenarios for helping third countries, especially on the african continent. and that's to reduce the risk of migration to some extent, because we're not going to solve it. so it is an important subject, and it is good that we are discussing it here, but let us admit that the report is very general and unfortunately will not make much contribution to concrete practical policy.
mr president, the question of subsidiarity and proportionality is extremely important. it's a shame that this topic is always on the sidelines here, in some relatively small nighttime debate. however, the report shows that we are moving forward and that we are increasingly not seeing the question of subsidiarity and proportionality as a formal condition of european law, but that we are beginning to take this issue very seriously. i'd like to make a point here. i do not think that there is a need to change primary european law to better examine subsidiarity, i think it is important how the european commission approaches the issue. i would like to commend mr juncker's commission for following, in my view, the motto that with every new piece of legislation, every proposal that it sends to the european parliament, it examines more closely whether such a proposal is necessary, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the pace of legislative work is certainly slower than under the previous commission chief, barros, and i think that's a good thing. less and better is better than more and less.
mr president, since 2013, the european court of auditors has not made any special report on the conflict of interest situation in agencies working with industries - and i am referring to the food, chemical, pharmaceutical, aviation or railway industries. there are situations where testing for approval for marketing on the european market of products from these industries is done by expert groups including former employees of the companies that produced those products for which marketing approval is sought. or, such situations are inadmissible because there is a risk of a lack of impartiality in the assessment of the products of these companies. i therefore ask the court of auditors to reopen its examination of conflicts of interest in agencies working with industries.
mr president, as i said earlier, industries wishing to market their food products on the european market require testing and approval by european agencies, but all agencies and all european institutions must have the declarations of interest completed. i'd like to refer only to the agents. of the 53 agencies, only 29 published declarations of interest on the website. i am concerned that in the rules of the economic and social committee, where the echr was rapporteur, every new employee must write a declaration of absence of conflict of interest, or no one can assess himself, say that he is not in conflict of interest. as such, i ask this committee to change the rules and require declarations of interest, which then have to be independently assessed by someone else and, obviously, the one in conflict of interest has to be sanctioned.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on cambridge analytica and facebook: data protection and citizens' privacy as a line of defence against election manipulation (2018/2667 ((rsp)).
mr president, brittany kaiser, a former cambridge analytica employee, told the british parliament that the this is your digital life app is just the 'tip of the iceberg'. he acknowledged that there were other apps that had been collecting personal data from facebook users, so the number of people affected is far beyond the number we know today, which is 87 million, as claude said earlier. mark zuckerberg himself admitted to us senators that there are very likely links between the data leaked by cambridge analytica and the internet research agency, the kremlin's "troll factory". the new regulation on the application of personal data adopted by the european union, at the insistence of this parliament, is indeed a response, let us see if it is sufficient. data belongs to citizens, and under no circumstances should it be used by the kremlin, moscow, or anyone else to destroy democracy, influence elections, and invade people's privacy.
when you said that we had the wrong president, i thought for a moment that you were referring to me, and i was scared.
the truth is that we are consumers either of commercial things or politics so, therefore, you know we have to buy it.
maybe a solution would be to accept facebook only if it is connected to typewriters?
madam president, commissioner, today we know that there are 2.7 million european citizens whose data has been used fraudulently. what we're very concerned about is that we're a long way from what some colleagues have mistakenly called the tip of the iceberg, for a very simple reason: because this data comes from just one developer -- cambridge analytica -- and facebook still has to share the data with the other developers to find out how many millions of other data were misused, and, most worryingly, what happened to the data of non-facebook users whose data was also collected. so i think you, commissioner, have a great obligation, namely to inform european citizens what has happened to the data that has been stolen from them, that is to say, that data that has been misused, if it has been deleted and where it is, and secondly, whether the elections next year, commissioner, will be held correctly - the elections for the european parliament. and i want to know that what happened in romania in the 2014 presidential election will not be able to happen again next year in my country, and that the elections in the european union in general will be free, fair and far from this evil influence of psychometrics promoted by cambridge analytica and facebook ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, we live in a world where socializing has become a must. we often hear the expression "if you're not on facebook, you don't exist" and the young visitors who are watching our session today can confirm this. this expression, beyond its commercial purpose, brought 370 million european users to the social platform, one of them being myself, along with most of my colleagues in the room. we're just socializing with each other. which is not a bad thing, but we need to be sure that our personal data is protected by any commercial company or institution that has access to it. i look forward to mark zuckerberg explaining to the european parliament how facebook used the data of european citizens in the context of the cambridge analytica scandal, and i think that we europeans deserve answers, just as we saw it happen in the us congress. not only have americans' data been taken or compromised and put at risk, but europeans' data has been compromised and zuckerberg needs to understand the importance of clarifying all of this, not just in the us, but in europe. in these circumstances and until the emergence of a european social media platform to replace facebook, as it appeared in the press, and in the potential of which...
madam president, commissioner, first of all, it is very good that we are discussing this subject here. i think we need to be realistic about him. there's no one party responsible here. it is not only the commission that can solve this, not only the national authorities, of course, but also us citizens. but i wonder: what else do we expect the facebook ceo to tell us, when he said it very bluntly in the us congress: "ok, i created facebook, but i didn't make any protective measures, and even my data is being taken". we are in the age of digitization. we sell on the internet. as we put conditions on the internal market to ensure the security of the product or service we buy, why can't we also require these platforms and these big internet operators to make sure that they don't sell personal data and protect it? and if they don't do that, and it happens as it did now, to be a very large percentage of the revenue, to make them follow the rules not only of ethics, but also of safety, because this is about democracy, about undermining democracy.
madam president, i am an it engineer and i have asked my social democratic group to set up a special committee for this case. we didn't get, but we did get mr. zuckerberg's invitation from the four committees to come to the plenary. he has to come and he has to explain, but until then i challenge you. yesterday, facebook told me that over 50 apps were using my personal data, some of which had lost that right, some of which were still using it. i deleted them all, i deleted their right to use that data, but facebook, all facebook, late, let me know that these companies might have given that data away. i'm also going to ask those companies to tell me who they gave the data to and to delete me from their database. but i'm going to do it after may 25th, because after may 25th, the gdpr comes into force, this gdpr that is now being praised globally and that gives me the right to be forgotten. i encourage you to do the same, but i also encourage you, commissioner, to send us the list of companies that have acted like facebook, that have acted like cambridge analytica and to go after those who have used this data illegally.
in writing. in the context of the facebook-cambridge analytica scandal, whereby the data of 87 million facebook users was illegally accessed by a british consulting company for electoral purposes, we are witnessing today a series of wide-ranging discussions on the protection of personal data that every internet user makes available to the giants of social networks. these revelations have highlighted the need to protect personal data, especially as illegally obtained data can be used to harm society at its most sensitive points, whether it is to manipulate citizens during the electoral process or to influence consumers in a way that can lead to market distortion and unfair competition. in this respect, by bringing the european data protection directive into force, the european parliament is responding to the increasingly pressing need of the digital society for a single set of rules to ensure adequate protection of personal data. as a member of the european parliament, i welcome this decision and believe that this legislative package is indispensable in order to protect the integrity and privacy of digital users. at the same time, i am convinced that we need to strike a balance between the needs of the market and the protection of personal data.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, in the fifth anti-money laundering directive, we gained public and unconditional access to the beneficial owners of companies and real estate. until now, those wishing to access this information had to prove a legitimate interest, which made access virtually impossible. however, public access to the beneficial owners of trust funds, such as those for charity, studies, inheritance or other purposes, remained subject to a legitimate interest, due to the council's opposition. but we'll have a definition that will include journalists and ngos among those with legitimate interests. politicians continue to be subject to additional financial checks because they are at high risk of committing money laundering offences. they're politically exposed people. we're not finished and we won't be finished until we're one step ahead of the bad guys. money laundering is an octopus that has spread across europe and around the world and is killing journalists.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, colleague, it is surprising that you compare the running of the cars to the laundering of money. we've had many debates here and we've seen how dangerous it is to be a black money payment, going, of course, from arms trafficking to terrorism. how do you explain that you have said here that there is over-regulation, when the need in society shows us that we need to have transparency and we need to know what is happening with illegal money trafficking?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr dalton, but also the shadow rapporteurs and all the other colleagues who, as the commissioner said, have made improvements to the commission's proposal. i think that must be a lesson, because we have now reacted to a case, we have not come pre-emptively to check a document, a regulation that we have for the internal market and perhaps in the future we will be more cautious. what i want to stress here is that, yes, certainly with this new legal framework we will have an improvement in regulation in the internal market in terms of motor vehicles, type approval, not just of motor vehicles, of components. i am very pleased that it has been introduced and i have always advocated that importers should be subject to the same rules and distributors should be subject to the same rules. it's in the report. and i believe that, through very good cooperation between the national authorities and the commission, we can monitor and have better results both for consumer protection and for - in circulation - risk reduction, but also for environmental protection.
mr president, commissioner, organic production is an invaluable resource for the health of citizens and the environment, which must be given a prominent place in the new common agricultural policy and which must be protected by the european union through effective mechanisms guaranteeing high standards in this area. farmers must be paid fairly for their efforts to supply high quality products to the market, but also for their significant contribution to maintaining a clean and healthy environment. consumers must be guaranteed, by the establishment of effective mechanisms, that organic products, which are always bought at higher prices than conventional products, are indeed obtained in a process that has been carefully controlled at all stages of production. their labelling must also be clear and unambiguous in order to avoid confusion and counterfeiting. unfair competitive practices must be prevented and combated by severe and dissuasive action. member states must implement european regulations in this area so as not to create additional administrative burdens for farmers in this sector. i also appreciate the importance of involving small and medium-sized farmers in associations to strengthen their position in the food chain and their cooperation with large farmers in this sector. last but not least, imports of organic products from third countries must be carefully and thoroughly checked to ensure that the high quality standards of the european union are respected, thus ensuring effective protection of both european farmers and consumers.
mr president, colleagues, when we buy an organic apple from the supermarket, can we be sure that the apple is not full of pesticides? the results of the checks carried out by the competent authorities show that the market is invaded by fake organic or organic products. many traders abuse the designations bio and eco, because it is a marking that sells the product faster. this misleading advertising by many producers has not only led to a decline in consumer confidence but also to the discouragement of organic farmers. i welcome the fact that the regulation proposes clear criteria for labelling and recognition based on conformity and equivalence of products from third countries. also, through the regulation under discussion, along with other legislative acts that we have debated in parliament and will be debating in the near future - and i am referring to the next multiannual financial framework - our task is to strengthen organic farming, to meet both farmers' needs and consumer demand. i believe that in the next revision of the common agricultural policy, good incentives and increased financial resources for farmers should be guaranteed.
mr president, commissioner hogan, organic production is a very topical subject. the organic farming sector in the european union has gained particular importance in recent years, with a steady increase in the agricultural area, the number of farms and the number of organic operators registered in the union. the sustainable development of organic production must be based on robust, transparent and harmonised production rules at european union level. these products must meet the expectations of operators and consumers in terms of product safety and quality, and take into account the varying geographical and climatic conditions in the european union. member states should further encourage and support eco-labelling by taking measures to reduce the use of conventional packaging and promoting the use of reusable, recyclable or biodegradable packaging materials. the environmental label makes it easier for consumers to visually identify goods and services with a lower environmental impact.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all my thanks to ramon tremosa i balcells for this very valuable report, and my thanks also to the house for the support for competition policy. i think that we may disagree in concrete cases, but we do agree that competition makes our economy work better for everyone – that the market serves the customer. that enables our union to do what citizens expect: that they make sure that they get treated fairly. this of course includes the work that we do on state aid, because if success is about getting the biggest subsidy from government and not about serving customers in a better way, then obviously consumers lose out. so we have decided that amazon had to pay back some eur 250 million in unpaid taxes to luxembourg. we have launched investigations into the tax treatment of inter ikea in the netherlands, and whether the uk rule on tax avoidance involving controlled foreign companies treats some businesses differently from others. but state aid rules are not just about tax. they are also to make sure that government support for important priorities like research and fighting climate change has the right effect, to make sure that public money does not just replace investment which companies would have made anyway; that aid does not deny innovative companies the chance to compete. but of course those rules should not make it difficult for support where our economy needs support. in a couple of weeks, the commission will present a proposal for a new multiannual financial framework, and as part of that we are looking at how we can make state aid rules simpler so that it is easier for european funding from the european budget to link up with national funding. so our common european actions match our ambitions on research, on climate change, on support for small- and medium-sized businesses and on social infrastructure, and i am very keen to discuss the proposal with you once it is complete. we have also been making sure that mergers do not harm european consumers. in fact, 2017 turned out to be the second busiest year of european merger control. and it is not just about the number of cases: mergers are getting bigger. they are reshaping the entire global economy, so consumers need protection from mergers now more than ever. last month, we approved the merger between bayer and monsanto, and we only did that after the companies agreed to sell off businesses worth more than eur six billion. that will mean that farmers will still have a wide choice, as they did before, when it comes to suppliers of seeds and pesticides, and it will mean that companies are still driven to innovate, to produce better, safer pesticides. i know that members of this house and people in the european public as well have concerns about this industry – concerns that go well beyond competition, but the right way to deal with it is not to extend the competition rules; it is to have strong, effective regulation that makes sure that pesticides are safe. we also need to defend competition in digital markets so consumers get a fair deal online, and this is why we are watching very closely and analysing in—depth, in the most granular way, to make sure that google treats rival comparison shopping services fairly. a case is not done with a decision: that is the start of the enforcement of that decision, looking into the choices that google have made. and we are advancing – to answer your question, ramon – on our two cases involving google, both the android case and the adsense case. as the rapporteur said in his weighty and thoughtful report, competition makes a difference in people’s lives and i am very happy to be here today to have a chance to exchange ideas with you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. we have to recognise that the european union has good results in the implementation of the competition policy, and the principle merit belongs to the competition commissioner and her staff. the report places a heavy accent on the independence of the commission and national competition authorities but the report also says very clearly that this independence is strongly linked to the availability of human and financial resources. however, i and many of my colleagues have concerns regarding the fast development of the digital economy and the dominance of the global technology companies. because of their huge economies of scale these global technology companies perform like real natural monopolies. we need a framework for analysis of these global technology companies and their markets. we think the commission and the national competition authorities should focus human and financial resources to get the knowledge and skill to implement the competition rules in the digital economy. the commission, national competition authorities, and we in this parliament should understand better how digital platforms work and how competition can be introduced in this digital market.
madam president, first i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the outcome of this report. its importance is highlighted by the essential points raised within – points that this parliament defends. i welcome the attention given to the national competition authorities, taking into account the role these administrations play in fighting trusts. keeping in mind that competition policy is enforced, not only by the commission but also largely by the national competition authorities, it is a good thing that the report encourages the european competition network plus (ecn+) proposal so we can progress towards the strongest capacity, more resources, autonomy and transparency. a second point emphasised in this report is the fight for fair taxation. indeed, tax avoidance hurts fair competition in the single market. it penalises new entrants and small and medium-sized enterprises compared to multinational corporations, which are the only ones with the resources to implement aggressive tax planning schemes. i am glad to see that the report encourages as well the common consolidated corporate tax base negotiations, pointing out that this would solve europe’s problem of unfair tax competition. it also specifically mentions the amazon case – the commission having recognised that the company benefited from illegal tax advantages. however, amazon is not the only company named in the report – there are also several mentions of google, which has abused its market dominant position by giving an advantage to another of its products, its comparison shopping service, preventing potential competitors from emerging in the search engine sector. it is important to encourage the commission’s actions towards fairer competition. this is the case with the current investigations into luxembourg’s ‘sweetheart’ deal with mcdonald’s. furthermore, the report also points out some shortcomings of the commission and encourages it to go further. that is the case for the aviation sector. it calls for better protection of consumers in the airline sector as well.
in writing. – the implementation of compulsory vaccinations along with penalties such as substantial fines or refused access to state schools is not a feasible, long—term solution to increase immunisation rates. these measures could generate even a stronger hesitancy to vaccination, where implemented. feasible solutions would instead be improving communication strategies and boosting information campaigns across the eu in order to promote accurate, science—based arguments and enhance member states citizen’s knowledge and understanding about the importance of immunisation against severe and sometimes fatal contagious diseases. in the context of the forthcoming eu action plan on vaccination, i stress that the key factor eu bodies and all the other stakeholders involved need to focus on is the understanding of the behavioural drivers of vaccine acceptance. as this factor needs to be maximised, the chances of negative health effects resulting from vaccination needs to be urgently minimised at as close to zero as possible.
in writing. given that vaccinations save lives, vaccine reluctance, which refers to the delay in accepting or rejecting vaccines despite the availability of vaccination services, does not make much sense. however, this phenomenon exists and is leading to significant declines in the use of vaccines in europe, as shown by recent epidemiological data on the vaccination situation in the member states. vaccination is arguably one of the most cost-effective public health measures available. widespread vaccination has eradicated smallpox and polio in europe. all eu countries recommend vaccination against serious, life-threatening diseases, and the most commonly used vaccines are the vaccines against hepatitis b and hepatitis c. however, some vaccines are not used for fear of adverse reactions after vaccination, due to lack of reliable and trustworthy information or due to insufficient involvement of health professionals. of course, neither the press nor the medical associations did much about it. in this context, we believe that a comprehensive eu action plan is needed, including the social aspects of vaccine reluctance, as well as measures to combat the spread of unreliable, misleading and unscientific information on vaccination.
madam president, freedom of movement in the eu involves that people frequently move around from one country to another. this leads to many situations in which people in need of protection require eu-wide support. this is why it is essential to respect the right of victims and potential victims to enjoy freedom of movement on the same footing as everyone else and to ensure their continued protection when moving. sadly, until now the use of the epo has been underwhelming in this sense. however, this report usefully identifies the main factors hampering its use, from lack of awareness among victims of the possibility of requesting it, to more general motives such as the reluctance of victims to take part in criminal proceedings. all these reasons must be dealt with to make this instrument an effective one in a modern world of high mobility without internal borders.
madam president, today we are voting together on a report which is in fact an evaluation of the implementation of the european protection order directive. of course, i appreciate the work of my fellow rapporteurs and also the work of all my colleagues, because together we worked in committee to make this report as good as possible in its final form. but the reality is that europe is not able at the moment to provide, to know the exact number of european protection orders that have been requested, because there is no european central register of them, and most member states do not provide this data. i believe that we will only be effective in this area if we have a report, if we initiate a report amending the directive, because the directive does not in fact contain a clear definition of the european protection order. criminal law is imperative, not interpretive. as long as we do not have clear rules that are binding on the member states, the european protection order will be ineffective.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we have this debate before the meeting in paris in may. it is very clear that the bologna process has had positive effects. we know very well that education is the foundation, after all, of democracy and i think yes, the commission must answer the questions put here. we want to improve this process, because if we have labour mobility, we must also have education mobility, we must have student mobility, we must have this exchange of experience, but i believe that it can be made more efficient, that there can be equity, that it can also be addressed to people with disabilities, that it can also be possible for poor people to study and, as my colleague said, that we can also have a standardisation of qualifications, a situation that allows the employment in various places in europe of those who study and who have access to the bologna process. we look forward to the commission's response.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the release of political prisoners and the lifting of the majority of eu restrictive measures in 2016 were encouraging steps which paved the way towards the development of the eu-belarus relations on a more positive agenda. however, i regret that no progress has been achieved in the field of electoral reform, in line with the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights and the venice commission recommendations. and unfortunately the local elections reconfirmed the shortcomings in law and practice. in light of these shortcomings, i share the opinion that the belarusian authorities have to put forward a comprehensive reform of the election law and processes and to apply it before the next presidential elections. i also support the call for closer monitoring of the situation by the european external action service and the commission and strict conditionality vis-à-vis the prospect of greater involvement of belarus in eastern partnership policies, financial support and visa liberalisation. in order to ensure closer eu-belarus relations the belarusian government has to bring forward clear reform commitments with regard to which setting up benchmarks and a timeline is necessary.
mr president the philippine war on drugs raises a number of questions that have been raised by international human rights organizations. i would like to draw attention to two important aspects. one is the problem of state monopoly of violence. while the use of force is the responsibility of state agencies, especially the police, there are many reports in the philippines that civilians are being used as vigilantes and the authorities are turning a blind eye to the phenomenon. this is a very dangerous and frustrating process that can easily get out of control, and of course the right of citizens to safety - which the police are also supposed to protect - is being ignored. the other problem is the lack of legal certainty. if anyone can decide without a trial who deserves punishment, even death, for drug abuse, then we're back in the old days, although there were some rules still in place. there are certainly abuses in every country, but in the philippines, it seems to be a state policy.
author. mr president, the text we are voting on today, supported by the epp, is balanced and makes a number of things clear. firstly, the report mentions that the protests in gaza were orchestrated by hamas, which is - it should be recalled - on the european union's list of terrorist organisations and whose ultimate aim is the destruction of israel. secondly, we recognize israel's right to defend itself. we therefore strongly condemn the repeated attacks by hamas against israel and the use of civilians as shields. we also deplore, of course, the loss of life and injuries in the recent protests and encourage restraint in the use of force. our aim, of course, is to prevent an escalation of violence, but that is not what hamas wants, which seeks confrontation and to divert the idea of non-violent protests to its own ends. i would also like to stress that the reaction of the palestinians in gaza is significant, since much fewer than hamas had hoped took part in the demonstrations in the second week. this shows that gazans are also protesting against their leaders, against the fact that the welfare of the population is not a concern of hamas at all, which, instead of investing in education and health for the benefit of the population, funds terror tunnels and rocket fire on israel. this is completely stupid!
the opposition we have expressed is due to a very simple fact: we do not believe in discrimination and we do not believe that large companies should be given treatment more favourable than that which we give to small and medium-sized enterprises. if all businesses in the european union are obliged to report their taxes for statistical purposes, why make an exception for large corporations? what would be the motivation? it is missing and that is why we are voting against it and i ask all my colleagues to vote against it.
madam president, the money laundering octopus kills journalists, but it cannot kill the truth, it cannot kill the words that are written in articles, on blogs, on facebook or in books. ján kuciak was assassinated, we all know. his colleagues are working to find the truth about who killed him and who gave the order to kill him. it is important to say how slovak politicians reacted: the minister of the interior, the chief of police and, on 15 march 2018, the prime minister of slovakia, robert fico, resigned. and prime minister muscat should follow the example of the slovak prime minister, because there too we have an assassination of the investigative journalist, daphne caruana galizia, but it is a matter of honor and responsibility in each case. now the resolution calls on the authorities to investigate who gave the order to kill them. it seems to me a hypocritical thing to do: only investigative journalists, only their colleagues will find out the truth, not the authorities, who are practically involved in these murders.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for this proposal, even though the x you have mentioned so many times lately - over 1.1 - is at its lowest level. we expected maybe to be higher than 1. with that 1.11 you only cover the budget loss created by britain leaving, but you don't cover a lot of the policies that you've proposed in the budget, which are very good anyway. in my view, the member states, the european council, if they have proposed these policies and want to support them, they must also come up with sources of funding. you have included in this figure the development fund, which until now was outside the budget, and you have even included the new own resources - a very good proposal - but i think that these own resources could be used to cover the new policies without reducing those that are now in place and that have proven effective. there are some things i don't understand yet, but we must see, of course, all the details. i do not understand why, for example, transport policy has to be at a lower level than it was six years ago and at the same time the social fund - i am in favour of the social fund - has to be much higher than it was five years ago. all the figures, all the structural funds are down, down from five years ago, which again is a question i hope to have answered. i will support, as my colleagues have done, parliament's initial proposal in the negotiations that will follow.
in writing. mr president juncker, the future of europe after 2020 also depends on the future of eu finances. yes, we need a more stable, stronger, more social europe. the multiannual financial framework 2021-2029 presented today unfortunately has many drawbacks that will affect european values: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. the reduction of the cohesion fund and the cap fund will lead to increased regional disparities, the weakening of smes and the disappearance of small businesses in agriculture. the rule of law conditionality that you want to introduce for the allocation of european funds, in addition to being in breach of the lisbon treaty, will affect citizens and not political leaders, which is why i cannot agree with it. you have not presented us with a definition of the rule of law, but each state has its own constitution and democratic institutions of control, therefore the introduction of this conditionality will fuel euroscepticism. i do not support reducing the cohesion fund and the common agricultural policy and i propose increasing the funds allocated to smes and the social pillar. we must ensure an increase in living standards and access to education and health for all european citizens.
in writing. the european commission presented to the european parliament the draft multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. in the ep debates, different views, some divergent, were expressed on this mff. but there was a general consensus on the requirement that the european parliament, the council and the commission agree on the mff by the european elections for the ep in may 2019. only if this is done will it be possible to prepare well for the use of european funds from the first year of the new mff, namely 2021. this will avoid the situation in the current mff - 2014-2020, where there were major delays in the preparation of the legislation necessary for the implementation of the mff.
in writing. a period of tough negotiations follows, both in the formulation of the ep's political opinion and, towards the end of the year, the drafting of the budget report. the negotiations in the european council will be just as tough. the most important thing is that at the end of these we have a multiannual budget that strengthens the cohesion of the eu-27. we need more solidarity in the context of brexit and we must not allow budget negotiations to deepen the already existing gaps between member states. the commission's proposal for the new mff 2012-2027 brings good news, but also some worrying news. the commission's proposal, presented today in the european parliament's plenary, will see new chapters in the eu budget. one related to migration and border control and the other related to security and defence. this is important news for romania, which is part of pesco cooperation and has long eu external borders. we have good news for the young. the youth programmes and the funding for the erasmus+ programme shall be doubled. but there is also worrying news for romania. these are budget cuts caused by the uk leaving the eu, one of the biggest contributors. the reductions will affect the two major budgetary headings, namely cohesion policy and the cap.
madam president, we are discussing venezuela and i see that mr couso permuy has a problem with the epp, not with maduro. mr. couso permuy, you are defending a dictatorship. it is in a dictatorship that opposition parties are forbidden to participate. mr. couso permuy, what is going to happen on may 20 in venezuela is an electoral farce. the chavista regime has banned the opposition from participating. we will not have transparent and inclusive elections at all. and for that, mr couso permuy, our european response must be very clear: we will neither observe these elections nor recognize the result of these elections. and if i may, since the government is trying to block all avenues out of the crisis, i believe that the sanctions that the union has adopted against venezuela must be maintained and accompanied by even greater pressure until your friend maduro releases the political prisoners, until the daily violations of human rights stop and until the opposition parties can speak out. we must not hesitate to adopt new sanctions after these elections in order to show maduro, mr couso permuy, that impunity is not an option.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i think we share the same objective here, even with the differences that i recognise and are not new in this chamber on the situation in venezuela, but i think we share two things. one is the sincere feeling of friendship and support for the country and the people of venezuela. i think that unites us and that is behind all our efforts to support and accompany the country out of a crisis that has different aspects. the second thing that i believe unites us as our common aim, goal and objective is guaranteeing that venezuelan citizens have the opportunity, the right and even the duty to express through a democratic, transparent process their political will and determine themselves the future of their country. we are all hoping for a peaceful, constitutional outcome through dialogue, bringing the regime and the opposition together in a credible way and ensuring that democracy, the rule of law and human rights are guaranteed. this is the objective that we share. we will continue to use all our instruments and means to try to accompany the country in this way, but it’s a difficult way, however, i can guarantee you that the channels for dialogue from our side are always open. i think it is the right thing to do at the moment, and i’m glad to have the support of the european union member states in our dialogue not only with the government in caracas but also with the opposition and with the national assembly, the legitimate institution of the country. that needs to be recognised. i was glad to meet the president myself, together with the opposition parties, last week. we met here, in this parliament, by the way. we will continue to coordinate positions with our regional and international partners, from latin american and caribbean partners to the united nations, to the holy see and others that can help to bring the different parties inside venezuela back to the negotiating table. we will continue to support and even step up our assistance to a population that needs it. for their generosity in welcoming and supporting venezuelan people who are crossing the borders at the moment, the neighbouring countries and communities also need to be supported. i mentioned in my opening remarks that we called for a revision of the electoral calendar, but i want to be clear here. for us, a revision of the electoral calendar would also mean the elections being held in different conditions. it’s not just a matter of dates; it’s a matter of how an electoral process is prepared and, for the european union, it would involve an electoral observation mission. you know that very well because you have lead them across the world. it’s never a matter of one day, the day of the election; it’s about the preparation of the electoral campaign, the participation in elections, the transparency, the open access opportunities for all, the day of the elections and the follow—up of the electoral results. in order to serve the democratic aspirations of the peoples all over the world, all of these processes are subject to some international standards that have recognised criteria and that we, the european union, follow inside our borders and promote outside of our borders. again, as most of you have said, we are making no attempt – and even have no desire – to interfere in the domestic politics of a third country. we have enough to worry about in our own domestic politics in the european union, particularly you, elected members of the european parliament. what we care about is that the processes of the democracy in the world are solid, credible and transparent. this is the only purpose we have in our partnership with our venezuelan friends. as many of you mentioned, there is a strong feeling of friendship between europeans and venezuelans. there are close ties, we know each other very well. i myself come from a country, as one of my compatriots has mentioned, that has many venezuelans – italy. the situation is the same for spanish and portuguese colleagues. we know what we are talking about. there is no antagonism, there is no polarisation, there is a true sense of friendship and communality of purpose here, and it is in this spirit that the european union offers all its support for a truly democratic, transparent, credible process in venezuela that i hope can take place inside the country.
member of the commission. – madam president, you know very well that the fight against corruption and fraud is higher on the agenda for the commission than it is for parliament. several hours ago, the commission president, jean-claude juncker, and the commissioner for the budget presented the commission proposal on the post-2020 multi-annual framework. the eu budget is, of course, a means to achieve our joint political goals and to have the resources needed to turn political priorities into tangible results for europe and for european citizens in order to have a truly positive impact on their lives. to make that happen, however, we must fight fraud and corruption. the financial interests of the union should be protected through effective measures both on the expenditure and on the revenue side. this includes prevention, detection and investigation of fraud, the recovery of funds and the imposition of penalties. i therefore thank the rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, mr pargneaux, for the good work done on parliament’s annual report on the protection of financial interests and in particular for taking a holistic approach to the fight against fraud. the result of your work is a comprehensive report, and there is indeed a continuing need for such a holistic and comprehensive approach to combating fraud affecting the eu’s financial interests in all budget areas. take the example of regional policy, for which i am responsible. the union’s main policy to reduce disparities among regions and member states is a major driver of job creation, sustainable growth and innovation in europe. according to the commission’s 2016 report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests, 45% of reported irregularities concerned the area of cohesion policy and fisheries, 2.10% being related to fraud. that is why olaf has included the protection of cohesion expenditure among its investigation policy priorities and has recommended the recovery of hundreds of millions of euros spent fraudulently in this area. only an effective and also a trustworthy and comprehensive system, including, as i have said, prevention, detection, investigations, penalties and recovery, will persuade member states to support a strong cohesion policy in the future mff. over the last six or seven years, we have progressed significantly in the anti- fraud area at member state level. the commission has developed new and innovative concepts. the basis of the commission anti-fraud strategy and the idea behind the national anti-fraud strategies is that the commission helps member states to develop. the commission fosters the sharing of knowledge and best practice and enables a network to be created among competent authorities of the member states. we finance dedicated programme projects and put anti-fraud tools guidance at the disposal of member states. these initiatives have boosted cooperation with and among member states, but, again, we will do more. that is why the commission is currently in the process of reviewing its anti- fraud strategy in the context of the new multi-annual financial framework, taking into account recent changes in the fraud landscape. this new commission anti-fraud strategy, an update of the strategy dating from 2011, will respond to the major risks affecting new financial interests, for example organised crime. the new strategy might inccorporate oversight of the anti-fraud measures in commission departments and agencies and strengthen the role of analyses. let me now turn to the legislative domain. over the past few years we have together reinforced the legal framework for protection of the union’s financial interests, achieving significant results. 2017 was a year of great achievement in that respect, with the adoption of two major legislative acts: the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor’s office and the directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. continuing in the same vein, the commission will later this month adopt a proposal to amend the olaf regulation (regulation (eu, euratom no 883/2013) to ensure close cooperation with the eppo and the effectiveness of olaf’s investigations. the creation of the eppo is a fundamental advance in the eu approach to fraud affecting its budget. once european prosecutor investigation has been set up, we will have two eu bodies with distinct but complementary mandates to investigate in this area. european prosecutor investigation will increase the effectiveness of the criminal law response to fraud, and it will be in line with european criminal prosecution policy proper, whereas olaf will complement the prosecutor’s activities through its administrative investigations. the commission is currently taking the necessary steps to set up the european prosecutor’s office. our aim is to ensure that it will start operations in late 2020, thus contributing to successful implementation of the new multi-annual financial framework. in order to ensure that all available means are used to counter fraud and other illegal activities affecting the eu budget, the european prosecutor and olaf will work in close partnership and be mutually reinforcing, each acting within its own mandate. this is one of the main drivers of the proposal to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013. the commission wants olaf to remain strong and fully functioning so as to complement the european prosecutor’s criminal law approach with administrative investigation. olaf’s role will remain essential in several respects. firstly, olaf will keep its mandate in all member states in the area of non-fraudulent irregularities concerning the union’s financial interests. the eppo will have no competence for these purely administrative irregularities. let me give you concrete numbers from the reports that we have been discussing today, which show the impact that non-fraudulent irregularities have on the union’s financial interests. in 2016, for instance, a total of 19 080 fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities were reported to the commission, involving a total of approximately eur 2.97 billion. out of that figure, 17 700 irregularities were reported as non-fraudulent, with a financial impact of approximately eur 2.5 billion. this means that 93% of all irregularities reported in 2016 were not of a criminal nature and thus do not fall within the mandate of the european prosecutor. secondly, olaf will continue its investigations on the same basis as now in member states not participating in the european prosecutor’s office. in those member states, the national authorities, as well as olaf, should create the conditions to ensure an effective and equivalent level of protection of the union’s financial interests throughout the eu. thirdly, in the member states participating in the european prosecutor’s office, olaf’s operations will be adjusted. today, when olaf encounters possible criminal offences, it can only address a recommendation to national judicial authorities, but with no guarantees as to whether a criminal investigation will be opened. in the future, olaf will report such suspected offences to the european prosecutor’s office and collaborate with it in its investigations in order to complement eppo operations to the greatest possible degree. olaf investigations in participating member states will lay particular emphasis on facilitating recovery and preventing further harm to the new financial legislative measures, thus supplementing the eppo’s criminal law approach. in coordination with the eppo, it may need to carry out action to complement an eppo investigation, for instance in cases where there is a risk related to time or where the amounts at rsik are very high. olaf must therefore become a close and a dependable partner for the eppo in the member states participating in the enhanced cooperation. carry on its work concerning irregularities of a non-criminal nature in all member states and continue to fulfil its mandate as it does today in non-participating member states. we will need the strong support of the european parliament and the european council to ensure that by the time the eppo becomes operational, the olaf regulation is amended in order to allow full cooperation and the smoothest coexistence with the eppo. as i have said, we must keep on stimulating, encouraging and also – when necessary – criticising the commission and the member states in our efforts, when dealing with fraud and irregularities, to protect europeans’ financial interests effectively.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for his report. it is true that efforts have been made to protect the financial interests of the union. it is very good that fraud is detected and damages are recovered and in this respect there must be very important cooperation between the european court of auditors, olaf and, of course, the future european public prosecutor's office. i hope that all member states will be part of this office, because it is important for the protection of the financial interests of the union. but i think that prevention is also important, because it is more important to prevent and prevent fraud, and in this respect i would ask - and there is this request in the european parliament's report - to put a lot of emphasis on online procedures throughout the whole chain of tendering, implementation and monitoring of projects with european money. i think that would be very helpful in terms of prevention and at the same time i think that simplification of procedures, of regulations would be a good thing in this respect.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what the commission has just presented to us, the cfm, is very much in line with the report we are now examining. in fact, the shortcomings we have found in the cohesion fund, the common agricultural policy, support for smes and the other elements of the financial framework presented can be solved by fighting fraud. and the rapporteur has presented it well and all the colleagues who have spoken: what are the money leaks and where? in public procurement, in the use of european funds, in the undervaluation of products, not only from china, of non-european products entering the internal market of the european union, in addition to being unfair competition. i would like to highlight two things from the report. first of all, i think we should focus very much on prevention, and ensure that transparency, but also assistance for the staff who work in the institutions that manage these funds. secondly, i think i should - and i support the rapporteur's proposal - have an annual report from the commission on the use of european funds and bank transfers from the eib and the ebrd. and i also regret that we no longer have that public report on fighting corruption. that is the rapporteur's proposal and i support it.
madam president, we have a strong european transport policy, represented by the regulation on european networks. significant investment is needed, both at national and european level. at european level, these investments are made through the regional development fund, the cohesion fund and the cef. unfortunately, from what i saw in today's proposal, all three of these funds fall in the post-2020 proposal. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. i think it would be useful to have a map in parliament from the commission showing what the member states are proposing to complete the networks, the core network, in particular the transport networks. i think there needs to be better coordination between dg move and dg regio, because the money is mostly in dg regio, only it is for transport and dg move should have a much bigger say in the investments that are being made to complete these transport corridors that are extraordinarily important for the european economy. so in my view, in the next regulations we should see some cooperation procedures between the two dgs so that we can discuss in the near future the completion of transport corridors.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i attended basic school with a large number of roma children and they are still my good friends. i was happy to have such an experience; it was very enriching. this was a very important and serious debate, so let me briefly react to some of the comments. i think it is quite clear that the problem of children in migration and creating better conditions for them, especially security and perspective, requires cooperation at all levels, starting from the eu institutions, through the member states at regional and local level, but also civil society organisations. we all have the obligation to strictly follow the principle of acting in the best interests of the child, because this is not only a legal and political obligation; it is also, and especially, a moral imperative. we will discuss it with the member states in june, as i said before. we will look back into the commission communication and recommendation and we will discuss seriously what has been done and what still needs to be done. much has been done in the field of training and deploying more capacities. we are continuing funding programmes. you would be surprised how flexible the funding is, because we try to react to current needs and urgent needs. i will not go into details, because of the time pressure. we will be more, let us say, strict in asking member states to facilitate guardians for the children because, rightly, and for very good reason, we set a five-day deadline for choosing guardians for the children since if this does not happen then there are very frequent cases of children going missing. this is a sensitive moment and we have a duty to have guardians for them as soon as possible. regarding the fingerprinting of children, we proposed a reform of the european asylum dactyloscopy database (eurodac) to lower the age for taking fingerprints and facial images to six years, precisely to strengthen the protection of children in migration and, in all cases, fingerprinting of minors must be carried out in full respect of their rights and best interests. by the way, it was very urgently recommended by the people working on the ground, in the hot spots. they warned us that the lack of identification is also one of the causes of children going missing. my last comment is on the detention of children. i have to stress here, again, that the administrative detention of children should only be used, in line with eu law, exclusively in exceptional circumstances and where strictly necessary. it should only be used as a last resort where no less coercive measures are available, for the shortest possible time and always in dedicated closed centres. this is very important to stress. as a very last comment, i think that we, first of all, have to offer children a perspective, because providing them with food and bed cannot be enough. i think it is our obligation, as you rightly pointed out, to provide them with an education and full integration into our society. this is absolutely essential and i think it is our common duty as well.
in writing. – the recommendations of the european commission’s communication on the protection of children in migration of 12 april 2017 requires an urgent and strengthened implementation across eu member states, starting with the processes of identification and registration. according to europol, more than ten thousands migrant and refugee children have gone missing after their arrival in eu, victims of human trafficking and extreme abuses. the main barrier in combating this worrying phenomenon is the lack of data (biometrical data and fingerprints) which leads to an incapacity of traceability of migrant and refugee children across eu. consequently, i stress the importance to reinforce the procedures of data collecting at all eu all borders and assemble effective mechanisms of prevention and responses. with regards to prevention, it is decisive that missing children detected across the union are immediately identified, registered and assigned to child protection authorities, and further hosted in different establishment than adults in order to prevent risks of violence and other abuses. eu members need to step up efforts in cross-border cooperation, information-sharing and coordination among all authorities involved in order to find and protect the missing children, irrespective of their migration or refugee status.
mr president, over the past five years, the european union has been at the forefront of animal protection by banning the sale of cosmetics tested on animals, generating a global movement and inspiring many nations to apply progressive rules in this area. the european union's ban on animal testing of cosmetics has led to increased efforts by scientists and manufacturers to develop alternative tests needed to verify the safety of cosmetics. however, the european union's move to ban animal testing of cosmetics is outweighed by the current proposal for a global ban, which is the only guarantee that animal testing will end worldwide. with four out of five countries still allowing animal testing of cosmetics, we need coherent, viable, immediate measures and actions to ensure the development and marketing of non-animal cosmetics globally, based on the participation of all stakeholders.
member of the commission. – mr president, as you know i am taking this point on behalf of my colleague, commissioner thyssen. i am happy to do so because both vice-president mcguinness and i are, unfortunately, only too familiar with the issue of farm safety and the devastating effect that loss of life and life-changing injuries can have on victims and their families. before i deal with that issue, ms mcguinness mentioned the announcement today of the budget. this was a proposal that has been in gestation for a considerable period of time and i think that the announcement today is certainly a very good attempt to mitigate the worst effects of what may have been proposed some months ago in relation to the budget. organisations like farm europe were saying that there is a cut of 15% in the cap budget, when it is actually 5%. it should be seen for what it is, fake news. we are all aware that farmers have to work in all weathers and all conditions. this year’s long winter and frequent storms have heightened the risk to farmers working in poor light and unsafe conditions. commissioner thyssen and i share your concerns that the number of accidents and fatalities on european farms is far too high. indeed, in 2015, there were more than 500 fatal accidents in agriculture, forestry and fishing. this is nearly six fatal cases per 100 000 persons employed in these sectors, and this is precisely why the protection of occupational safety and health of workers, including farmers and others working in the agricultural sector, remains a high priority for this commission. in this respect, the european pillar of social rights emphasised the right of workers to a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment. over the years, the eu has developed a comprehensive acquis on occupational safety and health (osh), which applies to all economic sectors, including agriculture. for example, according to the eu directives, the employers have the obligation to determine and assess the risks of hazardous chemical agents used on farms, such as pesticides, cleaning agents, veterinary medicines, fuels and oils, and the risks related to whole-body vibrations when driving tractors. they also have the obligation to provide, if necessary, personal protective equipment, free of charge. the available data on accidents at work show that the application of the acquis on osh has contributed to improving workers’ protection in the eu, including in the agricultural sector. for example, the number of fatal accidents in farming decreased by nearly a quarter between 2008 and 2015, in the eu28. this means 100 fatal cases less, albeit it’s still a very big number, and any death is a tragedy for their family and the statistics do not show that. applying health and safety regulations is also beneficial for businesses. studies show that the employer may have a double return on every euro spent on osh. at the same time, we are conscious that implementing the eu health and safety rules would be something of a challenge for farmers and small enterprises in the agricultural sector. i also take note of the concern of ms mcguinness that there might be an unacceptable level of farm accidents on farms with low incomes. although there is no evidence to confirm this link at this stage, it is a point that is worth taking into account. we do know that there is a particular risk to part-time farmers who often have to check their stock when they come home from work and often in poor conditions. our main priority is to help farmers and smes to meet their obligations under the eu acquis. i am aware that around one-third of the workforce in the farming sector is self-employed, including farmers, and that the eu osh directives are not applicable to them. this is why it is important that member states take measures at national level to promote the safety and health of self-employed workers. i note with great interest your question as to whether we would propose to fund farm safety schemes in the context of the next cap reform. the cap is not necessarily the framework for setting rules on working conditions or occupational health and safety at work. i would be more than happy to see the cap used to encourage greater farm safety and i am certainly open to any ideas on how the cap could be a positive driver of change in this area. the second pillar of the cap provides for on-farm investment which could be used for farm safety measures. vice-president mcguinness will be aware, and other members will also be interested to know, that the irish department of agriculture included a farm safety scheme as part of its targeted agricultural modernisation scheme (tams, as we call it) under the rural development programme. the objective was to improve the standard of safety on irish farms by providing grant aid for a number of specified investments. farmers could apply for grant aid of up to eur 8000 per holding. as i said, and reflecting commissioner thyssen’s concern, the occupational safety and health of all eu workers, including farm safety across the eu, is a priority. in this sense, the 2017 commission communication on safer and healthier work for all clearly indicates our key actions for improving and modernisation of our occupational safety and health legislation and policy: firstly, fighting occupational cancer, and this is relevant for the agricultural sector as well, in particular the updates to the carcinogens and mutagens directive; secondly, supporting smes in complying with rules for occupational health and safety and, again, this applies to farms; and thirdly, ensuring better enforcement of the rules. these three actions aim at improving the safety and health of workers in the agricultural sector. last, but not least, i would like to stress the importance of further developing the monitoring tools, as evidence-based policies require high quality, comparability and, as ms mcguinness said, timely data. we need to get the member states to give us more data in order to have a more coordinated approach at eu level on how we can tackle this issue. for that, we need to work closely with our member states and our social partners to develop the tools and to improve the quality of the data. that is not there at the moment.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that activities in the agricultural sector generate a high rate of workplace accidents. so according to eurostat, there were over 500 fatal accidents in agriculture, forestry and fisheries in 2015 alone, which i think is very serious. the fact that these activities are carried out in areas that are sometimes difficult to access, in open spaces, in the wind or in the sun limits the possibilities for specialised crews to intervene in case of need or in the event of accidents. the time factor, the lack of qualified human resources and financial pressures are driving farmers to intensify their activities, which very easily creates the premises for unacceptable accidents. working in isolation, lack of protective equipment, fatigue and stress are risk factors to which workers in these fields are exposed on a daily basis. added to this is a lack of awareness, training and counselling programmes, and information about the risks. the life and health of those who provide the commonplace litre of milk or kilogram of meat or cheese for many are often put at risk by the extremely complex work of a farm. the european commission, together with the member states, must therefore immediately start procedures to combat this phenomenon. i also believe that we need to pay more attention to preparedness and prevention measures in these sectors and to the introduction of awareness programmes on the safety of workers on farms.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the person who raised the question. it's a very serious thing. but i would like to stress that we have shared responsibilities here. we have to be realistic. the commission cannot solve everything. they must work with the member states. the commission can think of policies and share positive experiences, it can think of a system of financing for education and for vocational training and for training for accident prevention, but it must above all work with the member states to have on the one hand national and european funding programmes for safety at work. on the other hand, we are talking here about accidents, but also about occupational diseases, and it takes a lot of information to know how to use the substances they use, how long they have to work, how to prevent certain diseases and accidents, obviously, through occupational safety, which has to be done regularly.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the summary of the report by mrs esther herranz garcía on the current situation and future prospects in the ovine and caprine sectors in the union (2017/2117(ini)) (a8-0064/2018).
mr president, the development of the sheep and goat sector is an essential link in a sustainable and efficient agriculture. the main role of this sector is obviously to provide quality and affordable products for european consumers and beyond. the contribution of this sector to the prevention of climate change, floods, avalanches and forest fires, as well as to employment in rural areas, is also essential. however, the sector is experiencing major difficulties, and the signals received from sheep farmers are extremely worrying, as they are forced to close their business due to a lack of labour, with many farms being liquidated or on the verge of bankruptcy. it is therefore necessary to encourage association, to increase the amount of coupled support granted to producer organisations in this sector, the forms of support for the setting up of slaughterhouses and to simplify the authorisation procedures by the national authorities. they would significantly contribute to increasing the access of producers to the markets for distribution, an essential condition for survival.
mr president, commissioner hogan, the sheep and goat sectors are the most vulnerable in terms of animal husbandry. it is therefore important to ensure that the sector has a viable future in the european union, also taking into account the undeniable environmental added value, contributing to the maintenance of biodiversity and landscapes, as well as to combating phenomena such as soil erosion. let us not forget the contribution to the development of rural economies. sheep also play an important role in the environment, helping to maintain a significant number of hectares of grassland in the european union. therefore, there is a need for increased support in these sectors.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. it's a very important subject. we have to think that there are areas, countries where raising animals, goats and sheep is the main occupation. it is a source of income for those people, so i appreciate that the reporting has touched on all the issues, including those related to market regulation, and perhaps the commissioner really tells us how we can protect sheep and goat producers in the european union, given the decline in sheep and goat meat by 25 million head, given imports from third markets. i also think it's very important to realize that value chain from grazing to meat and milk processing from both species of animals. so there are things to be fixed and perhaps in future agricultural policy you will not forget, commissioner, to think about regulations for these two professions: sheep and goat farming.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 3 may 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the summary of the report by mrs barbara spinelli on pluralism and media freedom in the european union (2017/2209(ini)) (a8-0144/2018).
the news has been spread that cambridge analytica has closed down just this evening or so. i am sorry, mr mamikins, but the rule has been established, so there are no blue cards.
mr. president, the report states that the access of minorities and local and regional communities to the media is at risk. it also stresses that every citizen has the right to have his or her mother tongue be the official language of the state or a minority language have access to independent information, and therefore considers it important to provide training opportunities for journalists working in minority languages. in this regard, it calls on the commission and the member states to support initiatives targeting minority groups, such as internships for minority-language media. we must see that in this age, even print and digital media publishing in the official language of the state is in a very difficult situation, but the functioning of minority language media is simply impossible. minority communities are in greater need of their own media products, as the prestige of a language without official status is further damaged by the lack of independent media. this problem also shows that the commission should take a positive approach to the successful signature-gathering of the minority safepack european citizens' initiative.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. obviously, this is a report that tried to remind us all that freedom of expression is a fundamental right and not just for journalists, for every citizen. obviously, there has to be a balance between the responsibility of the information we give. we're dealing with those fake news stories, as the reporter said, not just online, but fake news stories in print. but, in reply to my colleague who said that the responsibility of journalists was not included, in point 2 the rapporteur stresses that there is a need for a shared responsibility of legislators, journalists, editors, the media in general. so there is a provision in article 2 and it's good that it's there. of course it's good to have neutral institutions monitoring the media, and yes, there is an over-concentration of the media, and i think that's where we need to work more internally in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 3 may 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the increasingly easy and rapid access to a wider and more diverse range of information makes the media's role in meeting contemporary democratic, cultural and social standards more important than ever. with its resolution on media pluralism and freedom in the eu, the european parliament addresses the current media problems (excessive concentration of ownership, the phenomenon of 'fake news', violence against journalists, abuse of online spaces, etc.) and proposes to the european commission and the member states a series of measures for genuine media freedom and diversification. in an increasingly complex and interconnected media environment, the judicious use of information and new possibilities of expression is essential. i therefore believe that, at both union and member state level, particular attention should be paid to quality media education, approached from a lifelong learning perspective and accessible to all citizens, including the elderly and those from vulnerable or disadvantaged groups.
in writing. freedom of expression and information is internationally recognised as one of the essential elements of the architecture of human rights and fundamental freedoms. at the same time, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are safeguards for the health of a democracy. i am deeply concerned about the restriction of the freedom of expression of some romanian tv journalists and i strongly condemn any act of intimidation of journalists in any corner of the world. i am in solidarity with romanian journalists and i ask that both the romanian and european authorities ensure that freedom of information is respected by the management of romanian television. i ask the european commission to be actively involved in guaranteeing press freedom not only outside the european union but also within it.
in writing. – the freedom of expression and information, media freedom and pluralism are fundamental values to the architecture of freedoms and human rights, enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights and in the european convention of human rights. however, across member states, journalists continue to be victims of attacks which include threats of violence, interferences of security and intelligence services, and pressures to disclose confidential materials and sources. all these pressures and interferences lead to magnifying the self-censorship phenomenon and enhances precariousness in the media sector. i fully support the call on the commission that the eu takes legislative measures to protect, guarantee and promote media freedom, pluralism and the safety and security of professionals in the media sector. it is vital that the eu member states carry out an annual monitoring of media freedom and pluralism, an assessment of transparency of ownership and conflicts of interest, such as political control over media outlets ownership. member states must take measures against violent attempts on media freedom and independence in order to safeguard a pluralist media environment. moreover, these mechanisms should be concrete and legally binding to ensure that member states will guarantee a proper implementation of the charter of fundamental rights.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
mr president, today the commission presented its budget proposal for the future financial framework of the european union. although we are talking about a draft that sets the stage for the negotiations and debates that will lead to a final formula for the post-2020 budget, i cannot help but note the worrying signs that the commission's proposal brings. the challenges facing the european union today cannot be met by coming up with a vision that weakens the european project. by reducing the amounts for cohesion policy, the most recent states to join the european union, such as romania, are directly exposed. reducing economic and social disparities is fundamentally dependent on european money, especially that allocated to cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. reducing funding for this area can only lead to a de facto division of the european union on development criteria. i think the commission's draft needs to be substantially improved. i appreciate the efforts to propose a draft budget, but i do not think it fully meets the development needs of the european union. it is up to european leaders, and also parliament as the institution representing the citizens, to build a budget that does not affect the development of the member states, that does not generate deficits within the union.
mr president, commissioner, i want to talk about the rule of law, especially since president juncker said today that we need a more stable, more solid, stronger europe, one europe and not more europe. the conditionality that the commission has put forward today, in relation to the rule of law and european funds, worries me, because i do not know what the instruments are. they did not provide a definition. what is the rule of law? each state, once it has joined the european union, is considered to be a state governed by the rule of law, has a constitution, has institutions, a parliament, institutions to check the application of legislation. i believe that, in addition to the fact that we do not have this information, the conditionality violates the treaty of lisbon, violates the principles and values. it's not right, now, when the euroscepticism after brexit is growing, it's not right, around the elections, to come up with such messages. i am asked in my country why in france when you break windows it is democracy, but in romania when you go out on the street they say that there is no rule of law, that you did not vote correctly in parliament. who says that a vote was or was not taken in a fair national parliament?
the centrifugal force is always smallest at the centre.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, we in romania have a proverb that says that divided, we can't do much, together, united, we can do a lot. and i am referring to your policy, unfortunately similar to that of president macron, of a europe with several speeds. we need, mr prime minister, a europe of solidarity, unity and development. developed in the east, as it is in the west. only together can we make the european union a strong, respected, global actor that plays an important role in this world. at the same time, yesterday the european commission presented us with a budget with massive cuts for agricultural policy and cohesion policy. i want to tell you that cohesion policy is a symbol policy, a key policy, essential for the construction of europe. this policy must continue, we must not increase the divisions and differences between western europe and central and eastern europe. on the contrary, all of us, the citizens of central and eastern europe, when we joined the european union, considered and believe that we must have the same level of development, the same rights and the same future, and i ask you, mr prime minister, to support a common european policy.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, i'm not going to say anything about your speech because i liked it very much. but because there were some inconsistencies, i want to ask you a few questions to clarify them. when president juncker asked you to give citizenship to british citizens, you responded very promptly - and i appreciate that you must certainly consider the case law of your country. then i ask you, in the council will you vote on that new conditionality related to the rule of law? and secondly, will you vote to cut funding to cohesion and the common agricultural policy? and, mr. prime minister, last question, i feel safer in my country, romania - which, unfortunately, is not in schengen - than in your country, where you know what happened. will you vote for romania to join schengen?
madam president, in accordance with the rules of procedure, i would like to inform you that in the debate with the prime minister of belgium, a colleague addressed the prime minister with the following phrase: 'you are the girl in the class who raises her hand and never makes history'. i think it is discrimination, girls make history, women make history and it is not normal to discriminate in the european parliament.
madam president, how is european citizens' money being lost or stolen? in 2015, the losses caused by the difference between the theoretical and actual revenues from vat receipts, plus vat fraud, in the union amounted to around eur 160 billion. in the cohesion fund alone, which is very important for the development of all member states and regions, reported fraud increased to eur 480 million in 2016. we need to know where this money, which was supposed to balance the development of the member states, went. fraud and corruption are not fought with slogans or speeches, but with targeted measures and cross-border cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area.
madam president, in romania, my country, the european investment bank has financed over 126 projects by 2017 and invested over 13 billion euros. romania is ranked fifth in the union for eib financing. among the projects financed are the modernisation and extension of the regina maria medical network and also the financing of the european energy corridor. but we do not have a clear picture of the value added, of the useful effect of these financing. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but also to the capital needs of the bank. they're not very transparent at the moment, and that's why i'm asking for transparency, so we can control them. transparency means control, accountability and so on.
the president, ján kuciak and daphne caruana galizia were killed when they exposed the arms of the transnational octopus of organized crime, drug trafficking, corruption and money laundering. we need the truth, because only the truth and freedom -- the press, first and foremost, which gives people freedom -- keeps us from dictatorship and keeps us in democracy. control: several european countries are adopting the russian model of a media controlled by power-loyal oligarchs. that is why, in these circumstances, i tabled an amendment to the 2019 budget to create a fund to fund independent investigative journalists. the world needs truth, because only then can it fight, if it has truth and freedom, against lies, propaganda and dictatorship.
mr president, no-one challenged the importance of the nuclear deal with iran and the historical role played by our union, but for the effectiveness of the debate, i will invite you all to think first. such a debate can be beneficial when having a real contribution from the commission and the council, with the high representative in the plenary. and secondly, we have already decided to have a debate on iran in june. this is why i warmly invite you to think of the possibility of having a debate with the high representative in june.
mr president, commissioners, i certainly congratulate her on the fact that we have reached agreement among three commissioners who are going to offer us, put us on the table, the third mobility package. as commissioner bulc said, we certainly want safe, clean and connected mobility, but of course this depends on certain conditions: first of all, the quality of the infrastructure. to have transport security we need an infrastructure - at european level, at national level - on which cars can run. then we need a high-performance car industry that can deliver new models. we need research and innovation in the car industry and, last but not least, of course, we need to support the potential of smes to enter this industry and be able to produce at european level and, why not, be pioneers in alternative fuel vehicles. i recently participated in a hydrogen car test in my country, and i was able to drink the clean water from the exhaust. so we can also address this problem of the clean air we breathe!
this item on the agenda has been closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – i welcome the adoption of the third set of measures for a cleaner and safer transport system in europe. the new package puts forward co2 targets for heavy-duty vehicles for the first time and an action plan on batteries, which commits to the ethical use of resources, pursuant to the re-use and recycle logic of the circular economy, as well as a forward-looking strategy on connected and automated mobility. furthermore, the measures also include proposals on passenger and road user safety, which will contribute to diminish fatalities and severe injuries in road accidents, as they envisage that new models of vehicles are equipped with advanced safety features. these initiatives, along with the circular economy and recent legislation on energy efficiency and renewables pave the way for a sustainable and healthier economic model. the objective is to ensure safer traffic, less polluting vehicles and provide more advanced technological solutions, while upholding the competitiveness of the eu industry. indeed, i believe that the proposed measures lay the ground for a new model, but, in order for the latter to bring the expected benefits, i share the opinion that it has to be matched by appropriate financial incentives and investments.
the next item is the report by ulrike rodust, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for demersal stocks in the north sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks and repealing council regulation (ec) no 676/2007 and council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 (com (2016) 0493 - c8-0336/2016 - 2016/0238 (cod))
that reminds me that some sharks have been discovered with bicycles in their bellies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 29 may 2018.
the next item is the joint debate on the reports: report by mrs clara eugenia aguilera garcía, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the optimisation of the value chain in the eu fisheries sector (2017/2119(ini)) (a8-0163/2018), report by mrs linnéai engström, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the implementation of control measures to determine the compliance of fishery products with the eu market access criteria (2017/2129(ini)) (a8-0156/2018).
mr president, the agricultural sector needs reform that takes account of the previous difficulties faced by farmers. at the same time, it must adapt to new social and economic realities that allow a better life for farmers, but also increase their ability to produce food cheaply and at affordable prices for the population. in this respect, i believe that simplification is much more important than the cap's financial envelope, which is also important. i ask the european commission to establish a single set of rules, valid for both western and eastern farmers, while at the same time prohibiting member states from coming up with additional rules for farmers. i welcome the continuation of direct payments, but at the same time i draw attention to the need to support farmers equitably according to their individual needs. equally important, however, is the balance of direct payments between member states as a result of our being players in the same single market.
mr president, commissioner hogan, the money from the european union budget for agriculture has turned the union into one of the world's largest producers of agri-food products, a clear proof that we must keep the same cap budget and the two pillars. yes, targeted financing is needed for small and medium-sized farms, but large farms also need adequate financing. i'm not in favor of capping and i'm in favor of having a more pronounced redistributive payment. if the majority of member states vote for a ceiling, then i will be firmly in favour of a voluntary ceiling. on the external convergence side, we need to achieve a level playing field in direct payments between european farmers. the reasoning behind the different amount of subsidies between european farmers, i.e. different production costs from one country to another, is no longer relevant. oil, farm machinery, food for workers, pesticides used in agriculture, labour, all these now have the same cost in all the member states of the union. for european farmers to have equal chances in a single internal market of the union, the romanian farmer must have the same subsidy as the french farmer and not half, as is happening today.
in writing. i believe that the common agricultural policy needs to be modernised and, moreover, simplified. i support the commission's proposal to put in place a programme for the development, implementation and monitoring of a results-based approach in order to sustain performance. this programme should be applied in such a way as to lead to simplification in the true sense of the word and not to add new administrative burdens for farmers. the modernisation of the common agricultural policy should take into account the renewal of generations of farmers and the provision of incentives for young farmers to enter and remain in the agricultural sector. in the same vein, an environment favourable to farmers' development must be created by providing financial support for the setting up of producer organisations, eliminating unfair practices and adapting environmental architecture to local needs.
in writing. we are back to the point where we have to reform the cap. i wish the new cap could better respond to the challenges of today. i want to see no more pay differentials between member states or between regions. i wish farmers could have a decent income and better access to the market. i wish that young people who want to stay in the countryside or settle there could enjoy more substantial support. i want to see agricultural enterprises and farms that receive subsidies forced to respect the environment and produce in a sustainable way. i want to see the sectors in difficulty able to receive coupled support and local markets and short supply chains encouraged. agriculture is not just an economic sector, it's a vital sector for humanity, providing us with quality food and managing limited resources like water or soil. that is why i hope that this sector will enjoy adequate funding. i hope that in the future negotiations on the multiannual financial framework we will be able to maintain a significant budget for the cap.
mr president, commissioner, farmers over 65 years old represent 31% of the active population in european agriculture, while young people under 35 years old represent only 6%. future agriculture cannot be sustainable and successful without young farmers having financial support and access to state-of-the-art technological mechanisms. depopulation of rural areas is a reality and concrete measures for young farmers are the solution. to attract and retain farmers in rural areas, we need a big pillar two, investment in agricultural infrastructure. access to land is indeed the biggest obstacle for young farmers in europe. in this context, i find the report we are voting on tomorrow in the plenary very good for farmers, but i would ask that the final part of article 2.2 of the report on the restriction of farmers' ability to benefit from state pensions and agricultural subsidies in parallel be excluded, given that pensions in the eastern european countries are much lower than in other member states of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to exchange views with you on the european parliament’s expectations concerning the connecting europe facility after 2020. the commission plans to adopt its proposal for the new self-regulation on 6 june. the mff package adopted on 2 may already provides some key orientations concerning the possible design and priorities of the connecting europe facility (cef). we all have in mind the high investment needs in transport infrastructure in europe for the period 2021-2027. we estimate that the ten-t core network development alone will require eur 350 billion of investments. in addition, we need to tackle much more decisively the challenge of decarbonisation and digitalisation of the transport sector. the cross-border dimension remains at the basis of the eu added value. however, efficient and interconnected mobility also needs to be smart, sustainable, inclusive, safe and secure. this is why i have proposed to modernise the connecting european facility. cef is among the very few programmes for which a reinforced budget has been proposed by the commission. the overall cef budget proposal amounts to eur 42.3 billion, of which eur 30.6 billion would be dedicated to transport. our proposal is thus to keep the current budget levels both for the general and for the cohesion envelope with 12.8 billion and 11.3 billion respectively. in addition, we propose to deploy a eur 6.5 billion budget for transport infrastructure of dual use: civil and military. i would like to refer to six points raised in the parliament draft resolution that i consider particularly important. first, on the priorities. i fully agree that it is important to strike the right balance between the development of new infrastructure and the modernisation of the existing infrastructure. on one side, i agree that focus should be maintained on the development of the network, with particular priority on cross-border sections and missing links of the core network corridors. this is clearly where continuity has to be ensured in order to complete the big projects supported by the current programme. on the other hand, a much stronger and broader emphasis should be put on the modernisation of the existing infrastructure. we currently need to keep up the efforts as regards ertms and sesar to complete the deployment, but digitalisation should also be supported further. we want to accompany the mobility transition towards connected, cooperative, automated and autonomous mobility, as well as modal integration and new mobility services. at the same time, we want to make our network safer, more secure and more resilient to climate change and natural disasters. for these topics, the geographical differentiation between the comprehensive and core network is not always relevant, so we are planning to propose to also cover the comprehensive network where relevant. but this can only be achieved by a team effort – which brings me to my second point, which is synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors. for instance, on automated mobility we will open possibilities for these synergies. importantly, while providing a framework that is as open as possible to synergies, we should re-establish a list of areas of topics. this should be done during implementation with sufficient flexibility. my third point concerns the cohesion envelope. based on the first positive experience, the commission has proposed to transfer from the cohesion funds an amount of eur 11.2 billion to the cef for implementation and direct management according to cef rules. of course the cohesion and co-funding rate would apply. however, we are considering a higher rate to apply to cross-border links. fourth, i would like briefly to mention investeu and blending. in order to streamline the instruments, the commission has proposed to merge most existing financial instruments into one single investment – investeu. it will have a specific window for infrastructure and it will complement the cef, which in turn will no longer have specific financial instruments. as regards blending, we should keep the possibility to blend cef grants with investeu, but also to use cef grants in combination with non-eu financial instruments, for instance from commercial or national promotional banks. my fifth point focuses on the new component of cef – military mobility. this is an important component of the new initiative proposed in the area of defence. the proposed budget of eur 6.5 billion would be implemented through cef to support civil transport infrastructure in order to adapt it to military mobility requirements. in other words, investments necessary for military mobility purposes will also have to be serving fully the needs of civilian mobility. and finally, my sixth point, on energy. the european union’s climate commitments require an unprecedented level of investment in energy infrastructure which enables decarbonisation of energy systems. electricity grids will need to undergo massive reinforcement. grids will need to become even more digitalised and smarter, to allow for efficient demand management. some gas grids may be transformed to carry synthetic gas, reduced with surpluses of renewable energy. therefore, a targeted public financial assistance will continue to be required to deliver the necessary investments. this will be potentially important where the infrastructure includes significant positive externalities such as security of supply, solidarity or innovation. the cef has a very important and growing role to play here, so an ambitious financial envelope is required, as well as support for synergy costs as i mentioned before, where transport, energy and/or digital can act together. furthermore, cef will be needed to support some more outstanding investments in projects to ensure energy security. so we are set for an ambitious but realistic future cef, and i hope i can count on the support from you, the european parliament, to move it forward.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for the information you have given. it is clear that transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures are at the heart of economic development. the connecting europe facility now in its financial year has been highly appreciated by both the member states and the commission, which considered it a successful project. there has been a lot of investment in railways, in sesar, in airports. that's why the amount allocated to this facility after 2021 is surprising, even if there is still some confusion in the figures presented, both by the difference between current prices and prices in real terms, and by the coming together of military infrastructure and financial instruments. i hope the regulations will clarify this. but i would remind you that in 2011 the commission proposed €50 billion for this facility. the amount proposed now is lower than in 2011 and is also lower than in the current financial year, for transport in particular. for energy or made some improvements and also for telecommunications. so i think you have to make an effort by june 6th, when you said you were going to submit your proposal to change that amount to support transport infrastructure.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate, which demonstrates again the positive aspects of the current connecting europe facility (cef) and the common willingness to reinforce the instrument after 2020, both in terms of budget and priorities. the period after 2020 will be crucial to ensure the successful delivery of the ten-t core network within the given deadline by 2030. various improvements to cef 2.0 will significantly contribute to achieving these goals. i have, in particular, taken note of your interests, priorities and synergies concerning the support for infrastructure projects. let me elaborate on some of your comments. first, regarding the cef budget. the multiannual financial framework (mff) proposal incorporates an ambitious proposal for the future of cef, which is among the very few programmes with a reinforced budget, amounting to a total of eur 30.6 billion for 2021-2027, circa 20% more compared to the current period 2014-2020. not only has the mff proposal preserved existing elements of cef in the general and cohesion envelope; the cef has been further reinforced with a new pillar of military mobility. during the difficult times surrounding the withdrawal of the uk, this is an impressive achievement, showing that the cef has been recognised by the commission as an effective instrument, adding real value to the european single market. let me stress here again that all the money allocated to military mobility is allocated to dual use; all the infrastructure is civil infrastructure used for civil purposes and then reinforced also for military mobility. on synergies: synergies between transport, energy and the digital sector will be implemented through a joint work programme, jointly financed and with the possibility to apply to the highest co-funding rate in the sector concerned. we are yet to define clear criteria under which the synergies will be taking place. again, let me stress that the ‘use it or lose it’ principle will remain part of cef. this was one of the most successful principles. it allowed us such a high level of delivery that, already in the first three years of this commission, our deployment achieved more than 90%. one last comment regarding the priority projects that was raised by a respectful member. let me say that many of the member states proposed new sections. we could not take all on board, but many of them will be taken on board, only of course those that were aligned with the annex of the regulation. finally, thank you very much again for allowing me to introduce the initial structure of our proposal that is coming in the first week of june. thank you very much also for your support. i will ask you to continue to demonstrate it, and i really look forward to continuing discussing it in the coming months, in close coordination with my colleagues in charge of the energy and digital sectors, to allow swift progress on this very important file.
in writing. – the development of transport infrastructure is currently fragmented across the european union with repercussions on territorial cohesion and economic growth. connecting europe facility (cef) is one of the main instruments that aims to address this shortage by focusing on facilitating cross-border connections, leveraging funding from both the public and the private sectors. cef transport triggered successfully already eur 41.6 billion of total investments by 2017 and statistics indicates that every billion euros invested in the ten-t core network creates up to 20 000 new jobs. therefore, the instrument brings a massive eu value added, enhancing cohesion, long-term sustainable growth and economic competitiveness. it also contributes considerably to the eu’s achievement of decarbonizing its economy in the context of the paris agreement. i stress the importance that member states and the european commission remain committed to the cef’s main policy objectives, especially with regards to completing the ten-t core network and the european rail traffic management systems (ertms). lastly, in the context of the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2017, i underline the importance of ensuring proper investments for digital and innovative transport projects and further reinforce cef instrument by ensuring complementarity with other programs such as the investeu fund or horizon europe.
mr president, romania will assume the presidency of the council of the european union in the first part of next year. it'll be a first. but her preparation is in great danger. the blame lies with the government led by viorica dancila, primarily because many ministers are incompetent. and worse, the prime minister has abandoned his prerogatives. the power of the government has been usurped by a convicted criminal - liviu dragnea. he leads the psd and, in an opaque way, dictates government action. the rule of law in romania is more lax than in hungary or poland. the psd-alde majority is not ready to assume the presidency of the council of the european union. i would remind you that in the first 6 months of 2019 the negotiations for the mfa will have to be concluded and the uk's exit from the european union will have to be managed. there are political resources to overcome the crisis in bucharest, but i believe that only early elections can give a legitimate and competent power, just like in italy mr president.
mr president, commissioner, fellow europeans, lift the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania. for more than 10 years, romania has been monitored by the cvm. romanian citizens are rightly wondering whether this mechanism of cooperation and verification has not been used, over the years, against public figures as a pretext. at the same time, romania has fulfilled the recommendations made to our country by the last cvm report, the one of november 2017. moreover, romania is the country that is to take over the presidency of the council of the european union from 1 january 2019, and the failure to dismantle the mechanism by this date will undermine the negotiating power of the european union in the framework of brexit. romania has suffered enough and unfairly, as an image, because of this mechanism, which now needs to be urgently lifted because absolutely all the technical conditions for lifting have already been met. countries like the netherlands, france and finland use the cvm against my country as an argument for romania not joining schengen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our project of organising a united europe seems to be losing some of its substance, its coherence, and the reason is simple: the european citizen, regardless of the member state to which he belongs, no longer feels that brussels is working for him. one way in which the european citizen should be brought closer to european values is through european health policy. therefore, if we want a credible european union, backed by the trust and support of the citizens, i believe it is necessary to start a structural reform of the health system. we should, despite the national differences in approach to this area, lay the foundations for the construction of a single health system, which focuses on the man, with his problems, not just the profit and profitability of the businesses in this system. in this context, i ask the decision-makers in the european commission to come up with an initiative to this effect, which could become a reality by the end of the next legislature.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i appreciate your intervention, but i would like to ask you something. the commissioner said that the commission's proposal was to cut funding from cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and the european social fund. (the president interrupted the speaker)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure the question was whether you agree that the right thing was done by cutting from the three funds, which in my opinion hold the european union together. we need the cohesion fund, we need the common agricultural policy. is it normal to cut back on these funds? that was the question.
mr president, commissioner, any entity that wants to develop wants to have a budget for the next period that is larger than the budget for the previous period. the same rule should apply to the european union. you can reduce the budget to policies you no longer need, but you cannot, for years, praise certain policies, such as cohesion or transport, and then come back and propose a smaller budget, especially when these policies are very much needed. i think that, given the discussions you have presented to us and what is really happening with the member states, you have two options: either implement the european parliament's proposal, with 1.3%, which i think is a decent proposal, or bring the successful policies up to the level of, at least, this financial year and cut out from the new proposals, the new policies that the member states must support on their own.
in writing. commissioner, you have presented to us the commission's position on the new multiannual financial framework, which is in major conflict with the position of the majority of the european parliament! you have told us, quite frankly, that you have done the right thing by cutting funding from the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and the european social fund! how do you do the right thing when the three funds are the pillars of eu development, competitiveness and unity? you said there was not enough money because britain is leaving, but you said nothing about new measures by which you could bring money into the budget from the enormous tax evasion, from the huge losses from the cross-border vat evasion, from the non-taxation of profits made in tax-free zones! we need subsidies for farmers! there are still less subsidies in the east than in the west and we have to match them! we need cohesion funds because we still have regional disparities in quality of life! find the sources, commissioner, do not cut the funds that keep europe together!
in writing. unfortunately, many meps and politicians in the member states continue to underestimate the impact of the uk's exit from the european union and insist on increasing the eu budget. now, we need to reach a compromise on the 2021-2027 budget figures as soon as possible. without this compromise, we will not be able to have effective negotiations on the draft regulations on the various european programmes, including those for cohesion and the common agricultural policy. we need to accept the reality of losing the second largest net contributor to the eu budget and find the compromise needed to take the first step: the 2012-2027 budget level. we need flexibility and pragmatism in our approaches.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive has been the subject of much debate, generating political but also geographical divisions, and rightly so. in my view, the task of this file to protect the rights of mobile citizens in the european union is extremely important. however, i wish we had been more ambitious. we need effective solutions to real problems that affect these citizens. i would mention here the fight against letterbox companies, but also the change in the practices of multinational companies, especially in the old member states, which choose methods of transferring profits from the member states where these profits were made to the member states of origin. let us fight together for equality of living standards and, by implication, of wages throughout the european union! citizens from eastern or southern europe should be paid at the same level as those from the rest of europe, on the principle of equal pay for equal work, no matter where we are in the european union. and here, my colleague who left should know that in romania a worker who does the same job, who has adequate training, just like the one in the west, is paid 30 - 40% of what the other is paid.
mr president, support for young farmers is key to achieving the objectives of the cap, but in line with the recommendations of the report, we must stress that access to land is a serious barrier for new entrants. however, administrative barriers often prevent young producers from accessing support, and the lack of capital from young producers also puts larger producers in a more favourable position. in this area, the new member states are in a worse position than the old ones, where these problems are more prevalent and constitute a much greater barrier to the entry of young people into production. the whole system needs to be made more flexible, because in agriculture - it is no longer just the weather that is at play, but also the rapid changes in market conditions - it is not always possible to maintain a business plan from one point to another for several years, the good farmer adapts to the changes in nature and to the needs.
mr president, two years ago, when we had our first discussion here on this topic, i already expressed my doubts about whether the revision of this directive was really the solution to fighting abuses and fraud in the area of labour mobility that it was claimed to be. today, after a great amount of political capital invested in this file from all sides, i am still not convinced. labour mobility is a force for good. it allows a timely and effectively response to labour market needs, it stimulates innovation and development and is a vehicle for transferring and upgrading skills. to properly function it needs public support. this is why it is so important to address legitimate concerns and to tackle abuse, but this can also be done without falling into the trap of simplistic slogans, creating red tape, shocking cost competition and jeopardising the single market. we should bear in mind that the administrative burdens we create today will primarily affect smes that abide by the rules and leave bogus self—employment, social security fraud and undeclared work unaddressed.
mr president, i very much welcome this report, which monitors the state of justice in the individual nation states. although, in my view, justice policy is rightly a matter for the individual national states, and indeed the creation of the internal market, the defence of the value of the rule of law should lead the european commission and the european institutions to monitor the functioning of justice in the individual member states and to make recommendations and, where appropriate, exchange information between the individual national states so that, gradually, similar cases will be decided in the same way in the individual member states. it is the basis of legal certainty for the citizens of the european union, so that individual judicial decisions, wherever they occur within the european union, are predictable. if this monitoring method contributes to that, then i am only too happy to do so, but i do not think that this can be the only activity of the european commission. we should think about the future and how we can contribute more to the european union's judicial systems functioning and deciding in a similar way, if we are committed to the rule of law.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, these have been tragic weeks. well over a hundred palestinians have been killed since march, including several minors, several thousands have been injured, and hundreds will suffer life-long disabilities. today, we have seen heavy mortar fire from gaza that reached an israeli kibbutz. no one can be indifferent to this tragedy. we need a political solution that stops the violence. israel has the right to defend its legitimate security interests and its sovereignty. but every response should be proportionate and the high representative has called on the israelis to avoid the use of live fire against unarmed protesters unless there is a real and immediate threat to life. the palestinians have the full right to protest peacefully. at the same time, we have also stressed that hamas and those leading demonstrations in gaza must ensure that they remain strictly non—violent, and they must not exploit the protests for other means. in five public statements we have urged all parties to refrain from actions that would lead to the loss of life. we have also engaged through our diplomatic channels. we heard different versions of the facts and different narratives about what was happening from israelis and palestinians. our judgment should always be defined by facts, not emotions. that is why we have said since the beginning that an independent and transparent investigation is needed to shed light on events and possible violations by all parties. the priority right now is for all parties to avoid any action that could spark new violence and lead to further loss of life. the first step to reduce tensions is to mitigate the dire humanitarian situation in gaza, where there is record unemployment and an economy on the brink of collapse. gaza’s health system is under extreme pressure in treating the injured. humanitarian access to gaza and medical referrals to hospitals elsewhere must be allowed to save lives. the commission has allocated an additional eur 3 million for an emergency aid package for gaza and the health, water and sanitation sectors. second, we must speed up investments in infrastructure and job creation, as discussed in the two recent meetings of the ad hoc liaison committee. this is key to countering despair and frustration. there has not yet been the progress we had wanted and hoped to see in gaza. israel has to do its part. real progress requires progress on movement and access and the possibility of trading. removing israeli restrictions would be more helpful than any increase in aid. the paris protocol agreed between the parties should be fully implemented, indeed updated. the palestinian authority must also play its part and fully live up to its responsibilities for the people in gaza. this means working actively for reconciliation, under egyptian auspices, to reunite gaza and the west bank under one legitimate palestinian authority. the only realistic perspective for peace, security and growth in the region remains the two—state solution. and the two states can only be achieved through meaningful negotiations on the basis of the 1967 borders, with west jerusalem as the capital of the state of israel and east jerusalem as the capital of the state of palestine. no one can deny the historic ties of the jewish people to jerusalem, and the same is true for the ties of the palestinian people to the city. precisely because of jerusalem’s unique history, its status can only be solved through negotiations between the parties. this is what we have repeated to our american counterparts since president trump’s decision to move the us embassy to jerusalem. no one but the two parties can take jerusalem off the table. we in the european union have also said that we will continue to respect the international consensus on jerusalem embodied in un security council resolution 478, including on the location of diplomatic representations, until the status of jerusalem is agreed by the parties. what has happened near the gaza fence and in jerusalem in the past weeks reminds us that what we urgently need is to reopen a path that may eventually lead to peace and security for all people in the region. as europeans we have a duty to play our part in this, however we can, and we will.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i am a little uncomfortable with the title of our debate, which juxtaposes two separate issues. the violence instigated by hamas cannot be attributed to the decision of the united states to open its embassy in jerusalem. in our resolution last month we clearly recognised that the protests which began on 30 march were orchestrated by hamas, a terrorist organisation recognised as such by europe. today, 30 rockets were fired at israel from gaza, and it's still hamas. of the people killed in the protests two weeks ago, 50 were recognized by hamas as its agents and rewards were offered for participation in these violent protests. in our resolution, we clearly rejected acts of terrorism and incitement to violence as incompatible with progress towards a two-state solution. on the question of jerusalem, clarity will not have to be sought in eastern europe, in the position of romania. we got not one, but two different responses from the authorities. so the internal conflict over the location of our embassy has disappointed both israelis and palestinians. romania - i remind you - was one of the seven member states which recognised the palestinian state. there was an expectation that jerusalem would continue to be regarded as the capital of both states. we also disappointed the israelis - with whom we have excellent bilateral relations - who expected us to recognise jerusalem, which has been their capital since 1949.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you mentioned resolution 181, the partition plan from november 1947. but do you remember that this partition plan was rejected by the arab states? at the same time, as you know, after president trump decided to move the embassy, which was a decision of congress from 1995, this does not preclude future negotiations between the two sides on the future status of jerusalem. what is your opinion on this?
mr president, madam commissioner, we are living uncertain moments which might impact not only the future of the eu-us trade relations and the decades of governed global trade system, but also the future of the international rule-based multilateral system as a whole, in which the cornerstone of a peaceful and stable liberal order was represented, among others by the trade relations between our continent and the united states. yes, president trump’s demands are deepening policy differences between the transatlantic allies on issues ranging from trade to foreign policy. the requested tariffs on steel and aluminium could seriously harm the interests of both sides and can unleash retaliations in the reciprocal protectionism around the world. without hesitation, i can only affirm today the most clear positioning of the socialists and democrats: we support and we wish to consolidate the multilateral system and work together with all our partners for ensuring free and fair trade. the worst we can have is an economic war (inaudible).
mr. president, i already signed up. europe is working to protect member states against imports of dumped and subsidised products into non-eu countries. the measures are necessary to ensure fair competition on the european union market and to protect european companies from the effects of unfair competition by certain exporters from third countries. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. we must not lose sight of the fact that steel is not just any commodity, but a strategic product. the commission notes that the union industry is still in a difficult situation, with a high level of employment and a high level of employment in the union. since no building can be built without steel, it would be wrong for the european union to depend only on steel from third countries and i believe that such dependencies do not bode well for the european economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this first annual report by the european parliament on the functioning of the schengen area sets a precedent for the years to come, and it is therefore essential that we ensure that the rights and freedoms of our citizens are respected. the schengen area does not work as long as some countries maintain internal border controls. thus, six schengen member states are already illegal as of november 2017. moreover, instead of sanctioning them, the european commission is trying to legalise their practices. all the while, since 2011, romania has been applying the provisions of the schengen acquis and acting as a de facto member by managing over 2 000 kilometres of the european union's external border, without however benefiting from the advantages of free movement. that is why in this report we have called for the schengen area to be extended to include romania and bulgaria. every day outside this space is a clear discrimination against the romanian and bulgarian citizens, but also a defeat and a shame for the european project. i thank you, commissioner, for your support for this initiative and i hope that tomorrow a clear majority will vote in favour of this accession, which is too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the schengen working group set up by the libe committee and the rapporteur, mr coelho, for the work on this report and the overall vision of the functioning of schengen. the report sets out very clearly what should be the priority actions of the european institutions and the member states to strengthen the safety, security and integrity of the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital in the schengen area. we clearly need closer cooperation between countries in reforming and improving the schengen information system, as well as strengthening cross-border cooperation between police authorities, the judiciary, customs and visa authorities. the schengen member states are to implement the recommendations on the vulnerability assessment of the european border and coast guard agency. i support the recommendation in the report condemning the continued reintroduction of internal border controls. systematic checks must be transformed into spot checks. unfortunately, in some non-schengen countries, such as my own, disproportionate border controls have been introduced in the last two years, making it unnecessarily difficult for people to move. in particular, i welcome the reiteration of support for the immediate accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. romania is fully prepared from a technical and border security point of view and only reasons of internal politics and some easy, populist speeches in some member states have opposed the accession of romania and bulgaria and have made this impossible so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the libe committee has approved the first report on the functioning of the schengen area in which it was very clearly reiterated that romania and bulgaria are ready for immediate entry into schengen. as romania's representative in the european parliament, i appreciate the fair and fair assessment of the libe committee and the rapporteur and i believe that we are prepared in all respects for this approach. thus, if this is recognized by the european commission and the european parliament, it is time for certain member states to recognize this fact and support romania's accession to schengen. i would also like to point out that the schengen area was created on the basis of a technical approach, it is not a political agreement. i would like to remind all my colleagues once again that romania has been fully fulfilling all the criteria for becoming part of this area since 2011. it is unacceptable that romania is not yet part of the schengen area and i firmly believe that any delay in this respect is unjustifiable and represents genuine discrimination against a considerable number of european citizens. in my view, any ambiguity on this subject is strictly political and it is time to admit at european level that romania's place is in the schengen area.
mr president, the schengen system has indeed suffered serious disruptions in recent years and we must unfortunately see that progress towards a solution has been very slow. this is a serious problem because the existence of an area without internal border controls is one of the most serious european achievements and has so far clearly been perceived by citizens as one of the most tangible positive aspects of the european union. we must, however, recognize that until there is adequate protection of the external borders of the area, the member states' concerns are unfortunately entirely legitimate and the maintenance of internal border controls cannot be envisaged as a temporary measure. i come from a member state which has not been considered by the other member states as suitable for becoming a member of the schengen area, while several schengen states are unable to maintain their own border which at the same time protects the schengen border . romanian and bulgarian citizens who are eu citizens see that they cannot be part of the schengen area even today, when it is not these two countries that are receiving hundreds of thousands of uncontrolled and illegal immigrants.
mr president, commissioner, i want to thank you for once again reminding us that romania and bulgaria must be in schengen. i would like to thank my colleague mr coelho, who made an excellent report, and all the colleagues who stressed the importance of the schengen area and the need for romania and bulgaria to be there. commissioner, after the single market, the schengen area is the most important. how can we be competitive? there are additional costs. how can we have borders within the european union? what is the purpose of the european union? please, commissioner, try to insist to the council that romania and bulgaria are joining schengen, and as the rapporteur said and as the report states, that all member states respect the schengen area and, without borders, we will be able to better defend the european union's border, a single border, together, with solidarity and communication.
in writing. the ep reiterated its support for the immediate accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, because they have fulfilled the conditions and are no longer considered second-tier countries. the european commission is also asking the council to take a decision on bulgaria and romania, as the schengen area becomes safer with the inclusion of these two countries. the european parliament must support the democratic control of the schengen area. some member states have introduced temporary internal border controls, which should not become permanent. national governments often tend to delegate some responsibilities to schengen, thus blaming it for what happens at the borders. therefore, a balance must be struck between internal security and the movement of citizens. the schengen code needs to be amended, as proposed by the commission, by bringing internal border controls back to their current level, to meet security requirements and to support the area.
in writing. last week, another step was taken towards romania being accepted as a member of the schengen area. in the libe committee i voted for a report on the implementation of the remaining provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system (sis) in romania and bulgaria. as a european member of parliament, i see that things are moving extremely slowly, and the fact that a member country of the european union is denied access to the schengen area in 2018, although all official documents confirm that we have been meeting the conditions imposed since 2011, denotes not only subterfuge and internal political calculations of the countries that oppose it, but also a departure from the principles of equality between members of the european union. on 9 june 2011, the council concluded that romania fulfilled all the conditions in the areas of the schengen acquis relating to air, sea and land borders, police cooperation, data protection, the schengen information system and visas. romania deserves and must be welcomed into the schengen area now! no more of this babbling, my fellow europeans. the council, by postponing romania's accession to the schengen area, is only fuelling anti-european sentiments such as those that have already begun to escalate in some member states.
in writing. in most cases, the issue is not the existence of minimum rules on the rights of victims of crime, but the correct application of the relevant provisions. in many cases, states do not comply with the provisions of the directive with regard to their own nationals, and do not consider it a priority to ensure certain rights of victims of other nationalities, such as the right to information or access to interpretation. one of the aims of the directive is to ensure that eu citizens enjoy the same rights in any eu member state if they are victims of a crime. as the law enforcement systems and police practices in the member states also vary considerably, there is still a great deal to be done today to achieve this and to ensure that citizens enjoy at least approximately the same rights in this respect, regardless of whether they are victims of crime in any member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank the rapporteur for the very important work that you have done on the implementation of the common commercial policy. we welcome the very detailed look that the european parliament has taken at the trade for all communication and the implementation of our free trade agreement (fta) reports. i appreciate in particular, madam rapporteur, the way that you also highlighted the fact that you share our assessment of the quick-changing environment for eu trade policy, protectionism, changing positions on the us and china, on what open, free and fair global trade based on wto obligations actually means in practice, as well as the growing economic political weight of asia, the digital economy and brexit. the report highlights the importance of revitalising the multilateral trading system, boosting trade in services, protecting and promoting eu values and standards, and the need for transparency in our negotiations. in this regard, the report recognises the commission’s efforts to ensure that our trade policy meets our overarching economic and political objectives, as was seen in the package of proposals aiming for a balanced and progressive eu trade policy that we presented here in 2017. we would like to underline the importance of implementing free trade agreements. all the institutions, business, stakeholders and the member states need to work together to make sure that eu operators and consumers can fully benefit from the opportunities offered by our trade agreements. parliament’s orientation will be important here when it comes to guiding the work on the enhanced partnership on implementation. this is, as i said, a shared responsibility. we are working with member states and all stakeholders to forge a strong network of implementation to improve the coordination of outreach activities and the information flows. this is crucial. the enhanced partnership will also allow us to represent the eu’s interests more effectively, to spot problems at an early stage and to identify possible solutions. we are working on several items mentioned in the report to make sure that our free trade agreements deliver benefits. for instance, we are conducting comprehensive implementation studies on partner countries’ legal and administrative frameworks to ensure that the ftas function properly. we are also working together with the external action service to deploy eu economic diplomacy that aims at improving the way we promote our economic interests abroad with regard to trade agreements, in cooperation with our member states’ embassies and business organisations. we are also working to extend the market access database and looking to create tools to help small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to benefit more from our trade agreements. in the latest agreements with japan and mexico, there is a specific chapter for smes to help them to take advantage of the agreement. as suggested in the report, we are also working to improve data availability. we take note of the requests to place figures in context and provide additional explanations to help parliament to assess the impact of our ftas. the implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapters is one of our top priorities. we will be working on the 15-point action plan and, here, stepping up the support to civil society groups and reinforcing cooperation with international bodies such as the international labour organisation (ilo), the united nations environment programme (unep) and other civil societies. thank you very much to madam rapporteur, ms saïfi, and the different shadow rapporteurs for this very important report.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the report points out, since the publication of the 'trade for all' strategy, the international context has been marked by the emergence of new challenges and, in the face of the rise of protectionist practices, we must strengthen our support for an open, fair, balanced, sustainable and values-based trading system that offers economic opportunities to the citizens of the european union and our trading partners. as rapporteur for the committee on development, i would like to stress the role of trade as a major driver of development and growth. it should be stressed that trade is not an end in itself, but that a fair and supportive trade policy, conducted in accordance with the objectives of sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, plays a key role in poverty eradication. it is therefore essential to remain committed to engaging partner countries in a process of cooperation and to provide comprehensive provisions in trade agreements, in particular with regard to social, labour and environmental standards.
mr president, mr prime minister, congratulations on your speech. you are one of the youngest heads of government in the european union and the representative of an influential country, one of the founding countries of the union, and your support for european construction is very important. i have seen you for years at lymec meetings and i know that your commitment to european values is sincere and strong. i was pleased to hear your support for cohesion policy. this policy has brought concrete results for european citizens. the commission's proposal is a good and balanced one, and for my country, romania, it will remain a very effective tool for bridging the gap between the poorest and most developed regions of our union. concerning tax, tax avoidance is compromising the future of our european union. it is about tax fairness. as president juncker and manfred weber, chair of the european people's party (epp), stated, it is about contributing to the national budget in a fair way, so i would like to ask prime minister bettel if european citizens can count on his support in moving europe forward to a fair, sustainable and modern tax system.
mr president, mr prime minister, what do you think of the proposal to reduce the aid granted under the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy for the countries of central and eastern europe? luxembourg is a founding country of the european union, it is an important country. do you not think that this will create a rift between western europe and central and eastern europe? what is your policy on the schengen area? because we romanians have been waiting for ten years. we have spent 500 million euros to secure our borders and we are still not allowed into the schengen area.
mr president, mr prime minister, i welcome your intervention and the answers you have given. i would like to refer to a statement: 'citizens demand an open and tolerant europe'. i would add "equitable" as well. of course, the citizens of my country would like to live like in luxembourg. the problem is, and the question to you is: do you think that the cohesion funds and the strategic investment fund had the best criteria and that social cohesion was achieved? what do we do with these disparities? how can we have the united europe that you have spoken of and that i want, when we have such a difference in the quality of life of people? people are disappointed. we have to give them a message, as you said, that we can have social support and that requires a lot of equity. you want to break the unanimity in the council? he wants a very clear answer, because, look, romania and bulgaria are not in schengen precisely because one or two countries are opposed and it is not normal to have two schengen markets in a single market.
mr president, we have brought romania and bulgaria much closer to schengen. they can now use the information entered by other member states in the schengen database and also all member states can see the information entered by romania and bulgaria in this database. as such, they will be able to collaborate seamlessly and in real time. when you have information, you have science, you have power, and you can prevent terrorism, illegal migration, cross-border crime. you can also identify and catch those who are preparing to commit such crimes or those who have already committed them and are wandering from one country to another or, well, hiding somewhere. the enforcement of these things, which are already in law, is in the vision, in the science, in the political capacity of the leaders, of the politicians who lead us and of the judicial institutions, the police, the border and so on. we don't have a second to lose.
mr president, many people are victims of crime in the union every year. in romania, in 2016, over 1 800 victims of domestic violence were registered, more than half of them being minors. the authorities must guarantee victims fast, efficient and needs-oriented procedures, firstly, and secondly, information on the release of an offender, precisely to protect victims and enable them to take protective measures. cooperation between member states is essential in this respect, because criminals and victims move around the european union like any other european citizen. as such, this cooperation is very necessary. also, for human trafficking, for example, it is necessary to protect the victims, even sometimes to hide their identity, because otherwise we will not catch the criminal, we will not catch the trafficker, we will not have evidence, and we will also endanger the lives of the victims, who are the trafficked people.
mr. president, a golden visa is the immediate receipt of citizenship or residency in another state if you have a large amount of money at your disposal. in more than a dozen eu countries, a passport or residence permit costs between eur 250 000 and eur 10 million. these include hungary, the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, cyprus and greece. the source of the invested funds and the profits of the applicants are superficially verified and thus the russian, ukrainian or other oligarchs can permanently settle in the european union. in this way, eu countries are becoming tax havens for corruption, organised crime and money laundering. in addition to a life of luxury, they escape justice at home. the luxury migration of the corrupt must be stopped by shutting down these programs.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very grateful for your initiative to debate and vote on your position on the european mechanism. it proves this parliament’s commitment to the better protection of eu citizens, and a strong civil protection mechanism – a european mechanism – is our common priority. as i said when i presented this proposal six months ago, time is of the essence. there is no time to lose. the next disaster, unfortunately, is just around the corner. thank you very much for your commitment. the commission’s proposal aims to make the civil protection mechanism better prepared and more responsive to protect european citizens, their livelihoods and our environment. why do we want to do this? because, unfortunately, the current system has reached its limits. we, of course, have achieved a lot through the current system, and i am deeply thankful to all the countries that have shown real, practical solidarity to others in times of emergencies. but disasters can strike at any time, with high frequency and high intensity. they can strike simultaneously in several of our member states due to climate change. climate change is making the challenge even bigger and more unpredictable. this is why we need to improve our collective preparedness and response. so, dear colleagues, climate change is not fake news. recent deadly natural disasters, such as the forest fires in portugal last october – ms gardini has already mentioned this – proved that voluntary assistance is sometimes impossible. what is our suggested solution? it is to create resceu to strengthen the existing solidarity mechanism and to combine it with stronger responsibilities of each member state. so it is not a revolution; it is an evolution of the current system. prevention also begins at home. we need to support member states in their efforts for better prevention, and the european union solidarity element is strengthened by higher co-financing from the eu budget from the existing voluntary pool. at the same time, as a last-resort safety net, we create a well-defined set of eu capacities like forest fire-fighting planes and medical teams, hospitals, and so on. you have seen our proposal and worked on its details. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, elisabetta gardini, for leading discussions between various responsible committees, across different political groups, to come up with parliament’s position – thank you so much elisabetta – and, of course, also all the shadow rapporteurs and also the rapporteur from the committee on development (deve), ms zovko. my presence here today gives me the opportunity to thank you in person for your work, all of you. i am particularly grateful that you recognise the importance of the prevention and preparedness pillar – the second pillar of this excellent proposal. we need stronger prevention and preparedness activities if we want to address natural disasters in a comprehensive way. we need solid risk assessment and risk mitigation planning; flexible, innovative and adaptable risk management plans; and also even some corrective measures. i agree that the response mechanism must be efficient and workable in practice. it is therefore important that the commission has a role of strategic coordination. this coordination is key. in an emergency time lost is lives lost. when disasters strikes, we need the authority to take rapid decisions on deployment of rescue capacities, in particular in cases of competing requests – and this is the most critical time. but when it comes to action on the ground, the member state affected must be in control of operations on its territory. so there is no problem about subsidiarity regarding command and control. i know many of you have already expressed your support on other provisions, which are even more ambitious than the original text. your report and interest in raising the point today in plenary demonstrate our shared objective of a strong ‘europe that protects’. thank you once again for your collaboration and your support in this very critical proposal.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on regional development. mr president, i first of all welcome the commission's proposal, i congratulate commissioner stylianides on his work and at the same time i thank the rapporteur, mrs gardini, and all those who have worked on this report. the existing instruments provided for by the civil protection mechanism had to be adapted to the new realities generated by the current crises. forest fires, refugee flows, terrorist threats, but also hurricanes and earthquakes know no national boundaries. this makes it necessary to strengthen european mechanisms so as to allow for a prompt and adequate response. however, the member states and, by implication, local and regional authorities have the primary responsibility for taking all the necessary measures, primarily prevention, intervention and preparation of the population to deal with any borderline situations. the european commission should retain the competence to manage civil protection capacities at european level, but in compliance with the principles of subsidiarity. finally, i appreciate that better coordination is needed between the civil protection mechanism and the european union solidarity fund for disaster prevention.
mr president, commissioner, i want to start by congratulating the commission on the proposal and, of course, the report and the improvements that have been made. who wouldn't agree to have an integrated civil protection system. we know well, each of our countries have faced problems, with catastrophes. my colleague was using my country as an example of the floods of 2010. i lived through an earthquake in romania in 1977, where thousands of people died. i think that's a first step. we need to cooperate. you said, commissioner, that civil protection starts at home and the rapporteur said that at local level there is subsidiarity (municipalities), but in certain situations we need this integrated mechanism. i think we also need to think about how we can allocate funds, because in the face of earthquakes, a lot of buildings, especially in the eastern countries, are unconsolidated and basically we intervene in vain after the buildings collapse. it can also inform citizens to know how to prevent and how to act in the event of a disaster. i think we still have some steps to take, but i congratulate the commission and the rapporteur and i hope that there will be a report voted on.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 31 may 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, containing recommendations to the commission on odometer tampering in motor vehicles: review of the eu legal framework (2017/2064(inl)) (a8-0155/2018).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. this affects the correct assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle, which creates unfair additional costs for consumers, car dealers, leasing and insurance companies and manufacturers. it is also of concern that this phenomenon has serious implications for road safety, as it is a significant contributor to the increase in the number of accidents. in practice, incorrect assessment of the technical condition of a car can have serious consequences for road users, putting their lives at risk. as the representative of romania in the european parliament, i believe that a quick solution must be found to solve this problem, especially since romania, my home country, has become a profitable market for the sale of second-hand cars. given that a high number of used cars traded cross-border have a tampered odometer, i consider that this phenomenon contributes significantly to the increased number of road accidents in my country. in these circumstances, the european commission must take firm action to protect the lives of european citizens. as legislators, and in the context of the debate on the mobility package, we must do everything we can to stop this phenomenon that endangers human lives. (the registrar has agreed to answer a question referred under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. indeed, that is a question for the committee. what i can tell you as a member of the transport committee of the european parliament is that, together with my colleagues, we have raised this issue and we strongly support the need for the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative proposal in this regard and i am confident, based on the good cooperation we have with the european commission and the fact that we are also discussing the third part of the mobility package, which also contains elements of safety and traffic safety, that it will come forward with a proposal in this regard.
mr president, commissioner, the report presented today confirms that the european used car market involves a number of risks for consumers and that it is absolutely imperative that measures are taken to protect the interests of car buyers. although this report focuses on just one issue, which is mileage manipulation, in reality we are all aware that there is a lot more falsified data that is stored in used car records and that is put on sale. the falsification of such data leads not only to a situation where buyers are deceived financially, but also to a situation where their physical integrity is directly threatened. it is appropriate to implement a technical and legal mechanism at member state level providing for the history of all machines on the european market to be recorded in a common database. i propose, commissioner, that you set up an identification platform and this common database, which will provide consumers with free information on the history of a car. i welcome this report which proposes similar solutions and i believe it is important that discussions on the introduction of such a measure take place as soon as possible at the level of the european institutions, but also at the level of the governments of the member states.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr ertug on his report. i think you have realised that the majority of parliament is in favour of the report, so the commission must get to work. in the tran committee there was only one vote against, it was almost unanimous. of course, i'm not going to go back to the effects on consumers, on people's lives, fraud. all things are said. but i want to add, keep in mind that the most vulnerable are the people with the lowest incomes. they usually buy a used car. children, their families could be put in danger. it is an injustice after all and can only be solved cross-border. we cannot do this, each country has to have a different rule, because, commissioner, we are talking about connectivity, digitisation, the single market. why don't we have rules here too, when we have so many negative economic effects, human lives, obviously, accidents on the roads in the european union. please commissioner, may we have your answer and a time limit on what you intend to do with this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 31 may 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer on the extension of the scope of chapter i of the brussels iia regulation to include registered partnerships (reform), addressed to the commission by lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000027/2018 - b8-0023/2018) (2018/2551 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs gebhardt on her strong argument on the question we are waiting for an answer to. things, after all, are in motion, society is evolving. we have, and i know in my country, a lot of partnerships, families that have been created, especially in the younger generation now, and that don't formalize marriage, but result in children. and finally, we have to think about what happens to those children, because there are situations where after five years, six years, 10 years, they break up and the children are left in a state of confusion. commissioner, i wanted to ask you - you argued that you had not thought of amending the regulation because a study showed that it was not necessary. can you present to parliament an impact study on this situation? how many partnerships do we have in the european union? what's the ratio of marriages? how many kids are in these partnerships? i mean, to have a foundation for what you're saying, so you can come in and tell us that you never need to change.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the impact of relocation on workers and regions (2018/2674 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that no development strategy can be effective without women and girls playing an important role in it, and that the principle of equality between women and men, a fundamental value of the union, must be fully integrated into all our political activities. while recalling that equality and the empowerment of women are stand-alone human rights objectives, i would like to emphasise that they are essential to the achievement of the sustainable development goals, and i would like to emphasise in particular the fifth sustainable development goal, which aims to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls worldwide. the report, whose content i welcome - and i congratulate the two co-rapporteurs - takes stock of several positive developments after the first year of operation of the action plan, as well as on gender equality, while highlighting various ways of improvement. i share the view that the action plan should include a comprehensive programme to address the main drivers and causes of discrimination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the ecodesign directive has been an effective instrument, as the implementation report confirms. unlocking the full potential of green design contributes to improving energy and raw material management and accelerating the transition to a more sustainable and low-carbon economy. however, eu ecodesign legislation needs to be open to cover a wider range of everyday products, it needs to be consistent with related union regulations and better understood by eu citizens, and innovation in the field of ecodesign of products needs to be stimulated. this will help to reduce the millions of tonnes of waste entering landfills and incineration and, subsequently, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. market surveillance should also be strengthened through a series of measures, with the improvement of the market surveillance system requiring adequate funding from member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the broad support for the petitions sends a strong message that immediate change is needed. the abuse of rights by mcdonald's or other companies in the public or private sector must end immediately. workers in precarious employment are even more vulnerable to socioeconomic vulnerability and are more likely to lack sufficient resources to lead a decent life. as the resolution stresses, policies to combat precariousness must be 'adapted to its dynamic nature, through integrated, all-level policy frameworks that support inclusive and concrete labour standards, coupled with effective measures to ensure respect for the principle of equality'. furthermore, i share the view that the commission and the member states must tackle precarious employment, such as zero-hour contracts, by relying on new instruments and ensuring consistent respect for the case law of the court of justice of the european union, as well as the practical application of national and european legislation at national level, in order to tackle the shortage of decent jobs and implement a rights-based strategy.
in writing. the continued detention of dual european and iranian nationals following unfair trials must cease immediately and the detainees must be released immediately. the iranian authorities must be held accountable for the violation of their rights. it is very serious that there are still cases of death sentences, which have long been banned in europe, without any exception. iran must ban the death penalty and, pending legislation, stop all executions. it should also end the use of arbitrary detention in relation to dual nationals as well as foreigners and provide procedural safeguards to ensure fair trials. president hassan rouhani has appointed a committee to investigate recent deaths in iranian detention centers, but no information from the inquiry has been made public so far. independent investigations into the arrests, as well as allegations of excessive use of force during the recent protests in iran, are vital to ensure that people have minimal trust in state institutions and to stop the brutal violation of civil and political rights.
mr. president, very conflicting signals are coming from saudi arabia. we all welcomed some of prince mohammad bin salman's openings, like lifting the ban on women driving, which will start on june 24. but the fact that the very activists who were able to campaign for the lifting of this ban have been arrested is a very negative signal. it appears that at least 11 activists, most of them women, have been imprisoned and the european parliament must demand the immediate release of these activists. reforms must continue, because the precarious situation of human and women's rights in saudi arabia is still intolerable. saudi arabia must implement its international human rights commitments and the european union must use all diplomatic and economic means to ensure that this is implemented.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, women's rights were on the agenda of the discussions i had with the subcommittee on human rights delegation that travelled to khartoum in december 2017. i was able to visit omdurman prison on that occasion. in this prison is also noura hussein hammad, whose situation has rightly mobilized the global public. as my colleagues have also said, this young woman was forced into marriage at just 16 years old and then raped by her husband with the help of relatives. noura hussein hammad defended her life and dignity, which is why today, here she is, sentenced to death. unfortunately, the sudanese justice system has not taken into account the outrageous, law-abiding circumstances that i have mentioned here. i want to insist, as my colleagues have done, on commuting the sentence of noura hussein hammad. i would first like to remind you that the european union has a firm stance on the death penalty. in addition, according to international rules, when the death penalty is imposed against clear evidence of self-defence, it can be assimilated to an arbitrary execution. i therefore ask the sudanese authorities to heed the requests we are making today, namely, to all the political groups in parliament.
the next item is the debate on the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 as regards the clearing obligation, the suspension of the clearing obligation, reporting requirements, risk mitigation techniques for otc derivative contracts that are not cleared by a central counterparty, registration and supervision of trade repositories and requirements applicable to trade repositories (com (2017) 0208 - c8-0147/2017 - 2017/0090 (cod)) (a8-0181/2018).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the emir refit proposal, the revision of the european market infrastructure regulation under the programme for sound and efficient regulation, which revises the original emir regulation of 2012 by simplifying certain rules for financial and non-financial counterparties in the derivatives market, making it more proportionate and, i quote, simpler, lighter, more efficient and less costly. while stressing that the emir refit proposal brings several improvements, in particular with regard to the suspension of compensation and the calculation of the compensation threshold as well as the treatment of pension schemes, i consider that pension schemes should be encouraged to implement centralised solutions and compensation in a timely manner. finally, i would particularly welcome the proposal's objective of preserving financial stability and extending central clearing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2018.
the next item is the report of mr marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european union aviation safety agency, and repealing regulation (ec) no 216/2008 of the european parliament and of the council (com (2015) 0613 - c8-0389/2015 - 2015/0277 (cod)) (a8-0364/2018).
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a very important regulation for the aviation industry, a regulation which sets out all the certification rules for all the categories within its scope. i think the outcome of the negotiations is balanced, it takes into account both the passengers and all the components of the industry: carriers, producers, workers, staff, traffic management, administration. rules are proposed to ensure aviation safety, but also to ensure the necessary flexibility in aircraft and equipment production, which is needed in the context of rapid technological progress. for the first time, the regulation covers all sectors of industry, thus simplifying the work of the administration and beneficiaries. the competences of the easa and the competences of the national authorities are very clearly specified. the development of certification specifications shall be based on the principle of risk assessment. dg move is obliged to update all secondary legislation within a period of five years, due to this principle. this principle will, for example, allow the rules to be adapted to different categories of aeroplanes depending on their complexity and utility and will allow for cross-border flights of small aeroplanes. for the first time, rules on security and in particular cybersecurity are introduced. a european alert mechanism for overflight of conflict zones is also included. the freedom of decision of beneficiaries regarding the certification authority shall be ensured, while at the same time the possibility of transferring responsibility should the activity of an authority endanger the safety of passengers. the commission has a fairly important future responsibility in the development of secondary legislation, covering issues of great importance for passenger safety and industry development, rapid access to flight data in the case of flights in difficulty, ensuring traffic control in the event of unforeseen disruptions, integration of unmanned aircraft into air traffic. this last point is extremely important. the drone industry is booming these days. rules are needed to ensure not only flight safety but also privacy and security. it is clear that in the coming period the large number of drones and the number of applications for these drones will create quite a lot of problems in this respect and some very clear rules are needed in this direction. parliament is looking forward to this secondary legislation with great interest. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the political group rapporteurs, because we worked very well together. i also thank the commissioner for her support and i thank the estonian presidency for the great effort it has made to reach this agreement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we have had a necessary proposal from the commission, the proposal for a new regulation. i want to congratulate the rapporteur and the rapporteurs and all the colleagues from tran who have contributed. i believe that this proposal for a regulation and this report which we are going to vote on tomorrow - and i am sure it will be voted on - are part of the strategy to improve the competitiveness of the european union's aviation sector. i have read the commission proposal and the report carefully. all interested parties were considered. the commission presented a result of the consultation. i think we've covered all the subjects. i think we need to have a single system of certification and oversight in the european union. it is very important, commissioner, what you will do, the agency is supporting you in monitoring the application of this regulation in the member states and i believe that this is the key to the success of this regulation. it is also very important, as mr marinescu, the rapporteur, said, that you come up with subsequent legislation, because the regulation must address two extremely important things: the safety of passengers and the protection of the environment.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this very positive and engaging debate. i have taken good note of your comments. i believe that we have a common understanding in considering this compromise as the right answer to the need to maintain a high level of civil aviation safety under the current challenges of growing traffic, while ensuring the competitiveness of european aviation. before i conclude, allow me to make some comments on the topics that you raised. first, on social conditions, this topic has not been forgotten during negotiations. there are indeed new provisions in the regulation to make sure that interdependencies between social and safety aspects are adequately addressed by easa. let me also inform you that the commission will continue to work on this during the year. in the second part of the year, we intend to issue reports on social issues in the aviation sector. on the question of oversight, let me say that the proposal includes a balanced and effective oversight support mechanism. this mechanism enhances the cooperative nature of the oversight system in europe. it is driven by a clear timeline and planning of the activities and reserves the possibility to take further measures to ensure safety if necessary. i will make another comment on safety itself. let me stress again that in europe we have one of the highest – if not the highest – level of aviation safety, and it continues to improve year after year. this is clear evidence that the single european aviation market functions well and thus in no way compromises safety. on the contrary. i will make one quick comment on drones. easa will ensure the safe coexistence of commercial aviation and drone activity for professional or recreational use. this implies, among others, an adequate design and use of our air space. the agency is already working on those issues, including in urban areas through the so—called urban aviation space or ‘u-space’ as we normally call it. i have to say that this is a very important eu innovation. before concluding, allow me to draw your attention to another crucial piece of legislation for the future of european aviation on which the european parliament will be called upon to play a major role in the coming months, namely our proposal of safeguarding competition in air aviation, better known as the revision of regulation 868. it is a priority to equip europe with an efficient and credible instrument for the benefit of our industry, passengers and regions. please bear in mind that the council, under the bulgarian presidency, reached a general approach on this topic. i know that discussions with the council will not be easy but, thanks to your support, i am confident that we will succeed.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues again for this very, very good cooperation, and the president for always being with us in the negotiations. commissioner, i must express my regret about the statement on galileo - it was not necessary, in my opinion, because i had already dealt with the subject in the text of the regulation. i hope that this statement does not cast a shadow on the performance of the galileo system, which is a very important system. i repeat: you have a very great responsibility for the future of this regulation through secondary legislation. there are a lot of things that you can solve with this legislation, things that are expected by the industry and are expected - some of them - by a lot of passengers, because, after all, the passenger is the most important thing in this industry and we have to take very good care of him. commissioner, tomorrow we shall vote on the easa. it is a very important step forward, but you know very well that it is not enough. we also need the single european sky. we need a new regulation; we need to unblock the negotiations for ses ii+. for sure, ms karima delli will be very happy, because the single european sky will bring a decrease in emissions without any effort and without any cost, only political, and this is not a big cost. i know that you can do it. it is in your power to discuss this with the ministers and to convince them to start negotiations with parliament on ses ii+.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly lacked this system for monitoring and measuring emissions and fuel consumption for heavy duty vehicles. i want to congratulate the commission on keeping its word. in the 2017 mobility package you said, commissioner, that in the first half of 2018 you would come up with a proposal. it's very good. i also want to congratulate the rapporteurs and colleagues who have worked. we need to measure emissions, after all, of course, we have the interest of safety, but also of environmental protection. but i have two concerns, and please, commissioner, take them into account, my colleagues have raised this. firstly, what if we still protect european heavy vehicle manufacturers from imports from other countries, subjecting them to the same tests and checks. and secondly, of course, we have to consider how manufacturers can keep pace in building new low-emission vehicles so that they don't block car building and ultimately block road transport. i hope that this will be taken into account and, of course, i hope that you will monitor transport correctly in all member states and that there will be a fair system with data protection.
in writing. the low-carbon circular economy is a major eu objective. the achievement of this objective is underpinned by an investment plan aimed at reindustrialising europe on the basis of new business models and cutting-edge technologies. as is well known, in order to transition to clean energy for all europeans, the eu has set itself ambitious emission reduction targets by 2030, to which the transport sector must also contribute. however, to date, the co2 emissions and fuel consumption of new heavy-duty vehicles entering the eu market have not been certified, monitored and reported, which creates a barrier to the establishment of policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the heavy-duty vehicle sector. the monitoring and reporting system for new heavy-duty vehicles proposed at union level will therefore contribute to the creation of a fully transparent market for new heavy-duty vehicles, which will allow buyers to make the best informed purchasing decisions, giving manufacturers a stronger incentive to innovate and develop more energy efficient vehicles.
mr president, despite ever-faster changes in economic and social life, one truth has remained constant over the years: quality education is as crucial as ever for the well-being of individuals and for society as a whole. providing for it is one of the best investments a society can make. member states are primarily responsible for their education, and there are wide disparities among them. according to a recent world bank document, romania’s education system is failing: 40% of romanian students are functionally illiterate, and one in five children drop out of school. adding to this, the skills of the workforce have not kept up with the increasing sophistication of the economy and the switch in exports from labour-intensive to high-technology sectors. to advance from situations such as this, member states will need eu support to drive reforms in their social and education systems. i am hopeful that through pushes from the semester process, and with instruments such as the esf and the srsp, we will be able to move on together. in this drive, it is essential that we insist on education systems that are truly inclusive and accessible to all people, irrespective of their social, ethnic or linguistic background. i fully agree with the report’s recommendation for member states to ensure access to mother-tongue education at all levels for pupils from autochthonous minorities. the eu used to request this before accession; it should continue to do so today, especially because we see that many member states currently pursue policies in full contradiction of their pre-accession promises.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs lybacka, on this excellent report and on the work she has done. together with the new skills agenda for europe, this report provides a comprehensive overview of education and training in europe. yes, my dear colleague, all member states have full competence over the implementation and development of education systems in their countries. but i think we can all agree that a set of sound and reality-based principles for a european single market is very useful. i fully support the key priority of the european pillar of social rights to ensure inclusive and high-quality education, training and lifelong learning. however, as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to point out that vocational training has not received the same attention and the same investment as higher education in many member states. that is why i would like, on this occasion, to raise yet another alarm to remedy this emergency. furthermore, as a strong supporter of synergies between formal, non-formal and informal education, i ask member states to accelerate their efforts to implement the council recommendation on the validation of non-formal and informal learning by the end of 2018. i also support the creation of a european education area, but also a higher education area, as presented at the gothenburg social summit in 2017. but i insist that the european proposals should stimulate cooperation and avoid any interregional cleavages. last but not least, please support the recognition of study periods abroad, as i have proposed with many colleagues in this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commission. it's a very important subject. who can argue that education has nothing to do with our society, with the modernization of society, with peace, and ultimately, with how citizens behave in society? so i think we have to think about -- and we know it's subsidiarity, but we have to think about it at the european union level as well -- how can we modernize education. we have methods that are often outdated. we must no longer rely on memorization, we must rely on vocation, we must identify the skills of children from primary school, develop a love of work and, of course, we must think about the rural environment, commissioner. what are we doing there? because teachers don't go to the countryside very much, we don't have teachers, we have substitutes, actually unqualified. how to educate children? and it's late for college. and it's also very important to think about how we match education with the need in the economy, because we're in an economic development and we have to take into account the new jobs that we need.
in writing. – i would like to reiterate the vital importance of education, not just for nowadays society but also for building a better future for the generations to come. sustainable development cannot be reached without a solid educational base, adapted to the current framework in order to provide the necessary knowledge and skills to address the contemporary challenges. digitalisation and common educational platforms have a huge potential, by contributing to the establishment of a modern education, more accessible, available and inclusive, but in order to benefit from their full potential, prevention programmes and awareness raising campaigns on the new issues of cyberbullying must be also integrated within this project. the european education area should be focused on achieving common goals, including ensuring quality education for all. i strongly believe that internal and external collaboration must be enhanced, and the rights of the most vulnerable groups must be promoted, including women’s and girls’ rights. therefore, a notable increase in the founding of the erasmus + programme is essential in order to provide the same opportunities also to students from disfavoured environments and to include more students and teachers, which will result in a better inclusion and more qualified workforce at the european level.
in writing. – education is a key element for fulfilling the economic potential, and a crucial factor for development in the information society. it is vital that education systems take into account the rising social and demographic challenges, as well as europe’s requirements of the labour market, new technologies, personal preferences and educational needs, which are determining the current directions of changes in education. i strongly believe that in order to deliver high-quality knowledge, while ensuring adequate competences, it is necessary to adapt to these rapid changes. data has shown that modern technologies can improve the interaction between teachers and students, making the teaching process more effective. this is why i fully endorse this report, which calls for a paradigm shift in teaching. i firmly believe the idea that learning by rote is obsolete and no longer responds to the current needs of society, and this is why it must be replaced by developing skills such as critical and analytical thinking. moreover, i strongly support that eu member states must invest at least 2% of their gdp in higher education and give priority to educational programmes, when in cooperation with regional authorities, use national and regional resources and allocate european structural funds.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz, and the committee on fisheries (pech) for their work on this comprehensive report. i welcome the fact that your report recognises the importance of developing a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector. this report builds on the momentum of the ‘food from the oceans’ report submitted by the commission’s high level scientific advice mechanism. it highlights the fact that aquaculture can and must grow in the future to feed a planet with 10 billion inhabitants. first of all, let me recall that we have already done a lot to create a positive environment for the sustainable development of eu aquaculture. together with member states, industry and other stakeholders, the commission first identified in 2013 the main barriers to growth for eu aquaculture and has been working since to help member states address them and stimulate growth. the main blueprints for development are the member states’ multi-annual strategic plans for aquaculture, on which they have made good progress, in particular by developing maritime spacial planning and reforming overly-complicated national laws. the commission is currently undertaking a mid-term review of the eu’s and member states’ progress on aquaculture since these plans were established. our review will be finalised in mid-2019. we are meeting regularly with member states in the context of the open method of coordination and with stakeholders through the advisory aquaculture council. we have a constructive dialogue with the key players at national level and those involved in production. your report gives this work an additional political impetus, especially through the links you have established with key players, such as regional authorities and developers, during its preparation. at the initiative of this house, the commission is also starting a pilot project on trans-national producer organisations, which will hopefully foster cross-border cooperation and increase interactions within the sector. i am proud of the significant funding the eu invests in research and innovation: around eur 20 million per year under horizon 2020, as well as in communication to promote sustainable aquaculture in the eu. under the current emff, eur 1.2 billion, which is approximately 21% of the total emff budget, have been allocated directly to the promotion of aquaculture. your report rightly stresses the need for imported aquaculture products to meet the same standards that eu operators must meet. let me recall that imported aquaculture products are already subject to strict sanitary requirements and that the european commission is carrying out regular inspections in third countries to control compliance with eu legislation. despite the important successes we have already reached together thanks to hard work and commitment, we are fully aware that more has to be done. we need to see even more improvements at administrative level: more reduction of red tape when it comes to licensing new farms – a number of member states have made clear moves in this direction. more need to follow, and a commitment to simplification and adequate support needs to be taken by the regional authorities who ultimately take the relevant decisions. i share your opinion that support to innovation is needed, and we will support smart ideas and approaches that make the sector more sustainable and more competitive. one way we are working on this is through the launch of a blue bioeconomy forum, which should be operational in the third quarter of 2018, and which will help identify a project pipeline, draft a roadmap for the development of the sector and find new markets and value chains. we are also working on a blue economy investment platform to support innovative business ideas in the blue economy that have reached the post-research stage, but are not yet ready for full-scale investment. this platform will help mobilise funding from both private and public resources, including the european fund for strategic investment. and of course, there is continued support for aquaculture development in the current and the new emff, as well as funding for research through the horizon 2020 programme. i’m looking forward to continuing to work with you on further promoting aquaculture and developing a competitive and sustainable aquaculture sector in the eu.
in writing. we find that in recent years the european aquaculture sector has stagnated, unlike aquaculture in other areas which has been growing steadily. this is evidenced by the fact that eu aquaculture production covers only 10% of the domestic demand for fish and more than half of the products of this type are imported from third countries. i believe that in order to reduce the pressure on natural fisheries, it would be beneficial for the eu to increase its aquaculture production. the union also needs to develop freshwater aquaculture and inland aquaculture in enclosed waters, sectors that represent an opportunity for improving food security and rural development, providing jobs in the poorest rural areas and playing an ecological role in maintaining valuable wetlands and providing a wide range of ecosystem services. last but not least, the procedure for obtaining the necessary documents for this activity needs to be simplified and harmonised at european level in order to encourage business investment and thus reduce imports from third countries.
reporting officer. madam president, commissioner, it is a pleasure for me to present to the european parliament's plenary the first report on recreational fishing. recreational fishing is certainly considered a hobby, but it is a hobby that is part of the cultural heritage, the traditions of many communities in coastal and island areas. it is an activity which has an economic influence that is unfortunately easily overlooked in our common fisheries policies. in the case of marine recreational fishing alone, nine million people are involved and the economic impact of this activity is over eur 10 billion per year. and in freshwater fishing, which takes place in the vast majority of european countries, over 25 million european citizens are involved and the industry associated with this fishing activity is worth some 25 billion euros. of course, this is an area of subsidiarity, but it is an area that will play an important role in what we call the 'blue economy' and the circular economy. unfortunately, the scientific data at the moment are insufficient for a few fish species. they are there, but we need to have a solid scientific basis for a coherent definition of this activity. and i call on the commission to support and promote the collection of scientific data on recreational fishing in the member states in order to have a very clear view of this activity, to have a relatively uniform definition throughout the european union. recreational fishing is different in every state, as i said, it's a cultural fact of many communities, but often, for many, many communities, it's a subsistence fishery and the only source of food for communities in the outlying areas in particular. the economic activity that can be carried out and that can bring many jobs to the european union must also be supported and i call on the european commission to include recreational fishing among the themes of the year of the eden project for sustainable tourism and to initiate projects in our cosme fund to promote tourism generated by recreational fishing. it is very important to give a chance to diversify economic options in communities that are marginalised and are environmentally dependent on this type of fishing. we also ask the european commission, on the basis of the 2013 definition of the international council for the exploration of the sea, to try to define this activity clearly in the future fisheries policy; we also ask for financial support for scientific research in this area, for the collection of data to establish the level of fish stocks. all of this will certainly shape a role for recreational fisheries in the common fisheries policy. we believe that the emff funds should be used for this activity too, because in a changing time, with climate challenges, with food challenges, recreational fishing is not only a chance for recreation but also for life.
madam president, please. the representatives of the 47 countries of the council of europe met in the szeklerland at the invitation of the rmdsz. we have concluded that we need to strengthen the relationship between the council of europe and the european union, as we see that the eu does not adopt the eq standards on the rights of national minorities. despite the fact that we have raised this issue here in the european parliament on numerous occasions, the copenhagen dilemma has not been resolved. eu accession requires candidate states to ensure the protection of indigenous minorities, but this obligation will cease after accession. in our case, this has resulted in the situation of hungarians in romania deteriorating eleven years after accession to the eu, with more frequent legal violations and an increase in anti-hungarian sentiment. we want to see the etu's practice of protecting minorities incorporated into eu law, and we are therefore calling for much closer cooperation between the two organisations.
madam president, romania is a clear supporter of the existence of the schengen area. however, it has not been granted membership status although according to all assessments it fulfils the accession criteria. the european commission and the european parliament have repeatedly expressed their support for romania's accession to the schengen area. romania is one of the countries that can strengthen the security of the european union's borders, and this is one of the clear reasons why it should be part of the schengen area as soon as possible. the fact that romania fulfils the accession criteria after a costly and long-term effort also entitles romanian citizens and the romanian economy to benefit from the advantages of belonging to the schengen area. on wednesday, parliament will vote on a motion for a resolution on the draft european council decision showing that romania and bulgaria are prepared in all respects to join the schengen area. i therefore call on my colleagues to support the draft resolution, which represents an additional step towards romania and bulgaria becoming members of the schengen area as soon as possible, as is right.
blue-card question. – madam president, it seems that mr woolfe and ms atkinson are speaking only to the uk, to mrs may and to the british people. why are you here within the european parliament? you should have to go home to speak, because here you speak to the europeans, you speak to all the european union countries and people. why don’t you go home? probably, it might be time.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, in your speech you said that after brexit we would have a smaller budget - and we will - and you referred to the fact that the member states, the citizens, should contribute more. do you not think that the commission could, by very coherent measures, find other resources to replenish the budget on the exit of brexit? for example, vat evasion and tax evasion in the internal market? thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i must say that i agree with everything you have said here. the european union is at a crossroads. you have presented that for the first time since 1945, we have an american president who ignores the relationship with the european union. you also told the council that it must be decided. we're in agreement here. the problem is that if the council puts on its agenda - and i have been very attentive to what the council representative has presented to us - so many subjects, all of them very important, i do not think that any decision can be taken. and it's important that we make decisions. you announced that certain things were postponed. members, representatives of the member states, must take account of the interests of the european union if we want to have it, if we want to have no eurosceptics, not of national interests. and i think this is the key to success in the regulations that we take. because, yes, we here reach a consensus and we are 751. i do not understand how 28 states, 27 states cannot reach a consensus on the interests of the union, the internal market, our trade, the protection of workers and all that we have discussed here today.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as regards the discussion on eu-nato cooperation and the guidelines for further work on defence, i would like to stress that the strategic partnership between the european union and nato is fundamental to tackling security challenges and that the actions of these two organisations should be more complementary in terms of security in order to better face the new, unprecedented and multifaceted challenges in this field, in the west and in the south. finally, on the employment, growth and competitiveness aspects, i would like to recall the commitment to step up efforts to bring the single market strategy, the digital single market strategy, the capital market action plan and the energy union to a successful conclusion by the end of the current legislative cycle. the european union must continue to work towards the completion of a sustainable and fair single market fit for the digital age and facilitating competitiveness, innovation, sustainability and european cohesion, as this is quite important for the countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. what would you rather eat: a small portion prepared by prestigious chefs, made from fresh natural ingredients, or a huge bowl of junk food? which would you rather live in: a house designed by a brilliant architect or a tower of babel built by a crowd of unskilled workers? in short, do we want quality or quantity? do we want a better union or a bigger union? at this moment in history, the answer is one! we must return to what unites us without compromise and leave the divergent issues for later. i strongly support the idea that the european parliament sends a clear message to the council: decisions on the future of the union must be taken by consensus! any major decision taken by qualified majority weakens unity, increases inequality and corruption, undermines democracy and jeopardises our future.
mr president, recent weeks have shown us all continuing high volatility on the markets. this means that markets are nervous, and this means that risks still persist. the question is: what is the origin of this nervousness? it is without any doubt due to recent political developments. that is why the key question for me is: who is stronger in europe – populism or our currency? we have to make sure that our common currency, on which the prosperity of 500 million citizens in europe is based, is stronger than populism, which wants to harm the euro. the question is: what do we have to do? we have to strengthen the euro to prevent the next crisis, because managing a crisis is always politically difficult, it is harmful for the people and it is expensive. the better way is, of course, to prevent the next crisis. therefore, vice-president dombrovskis, my questions are: when we are looking to the european stability mechanism and eventually reflecting upon developing it into a european monetary fund, what goal do you foresee for a possible european monetary fund in preventing the next financial crisis? my next question is: could you clarify how a european monetary fund would be based on the eu legal framework? what role do you foresee for the european parliament after the possible creation of the emf? but also before, while we decide on the creation of the emf: what role do you foresee for parliament to ensure democratic legitimacy for that creation?
mr president, i welcome the european commission's proposals for the completion of economic and monetary union. i believe, however, that even if we develop all the instruments and policies needed for this union, it will not be complete until the non-euro area member states join the euro. and these member states, when they joined the european union, they committed themselves to fulfilling all the conditions to be able to join the euro. that is why i believe that the convergence facility provided for in the new 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework will have to be used for those member states which make a commitment and have a concrete action plan, setting out the exact timetables, the measures they have to take to join the euro.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will start by saying that there is nothing strategic in dismantling our common eu—usa achievements throughout history, dismantling the multilateral rule-based system or calling into question the high value of multilateral diplomatic victories. for the sake of clarity, the iran deal required the country to eliminate 98% of its uranium stockpile, dismantle and seal two thirds of its centrifuges, cap uranium enrichment at levels well below weapons grade and remove the core of its plutonium reactor. today the sweeping inspections regime of the international atomic energy agency certifies that iran is complying with all its commitments. yes, the deal is key for nuclear non—proliferation and should be kept in place as long as possible. this is key for global peace and security and is in the interests of the international community, including the usa and iran. the credibility of the usa negotiating future nuclear agreements, notably the one with north korea is now at stake. today, after the summit between president trump and president kim jong—un i can only hope that the north korean deal will be as ambitious as the iranian one. at the same time, this is to protect european companies in the light of the reintroduction of american sanctions. thus, the s&d group welcomes the commission proposal to activate the blocking statute. it goes without saying that the dialogue with the united states should continue. nevertheless, in order to address separate issues, such as iran’s presence in syria and its support for the bloody assad regime and the development of ballistic missiles, in parallel we call on the eu to take all necessary measures to ensure tangible economic benefits for iran. finally, we are living in turbulent times. it is therefore key for the european union to stand firm and unite in the face of this challenge.
mr president, madam high representative, as we all know, the iran nuclear agreement is a pillar of the overall security architecture and an important achievement of the european diplomacy you lead. during the afet/droi mission that visited tehran in february, i could measure the concern of our iranian interlocutors about the change in us policy, because they, at the time, were already convinced that trump was going to do what he did. we have tried to assure our iranian interlocutors that europe will work to preserve this agreement and what you and the foreign ministers are doing. but i also noted the dissatisfaction of our iranian partners with us europeans. i was shocked by their criticism, particularly as regards the economic consequences: they blame us, they blame you for their absence, and we had to defend you, madam high representative. what worries me is that they keep doing this, and they keep saying things that are not always in the political philosophy of this agreement. recently ayatollah khamenei spoke about the increase of iran's nuclear capacity under the agreement, which is completely unacceptable. i would like to conclude by saying that i am pleased with what you have said about the possibility of discussing human rights. but i would also like to see some practical results. we have discussed the case of ahmadreza djalali again here last time. he is a citizen who also has swedish nationality and i would like to see him released... (the president withdrew from the floor)
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has really been a very useful exchange and i thank so much the honourable members for their interventions. i would also like to congratulate again mr tannock on his report. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in ensuring we conclude an ambitious, comprehensive and progressive-oriented modernised association agreement with chile. i also note a wide convergence of views between what the european parliament wants to see in the modernised agreement and what we are currently negotiating. we will continue working with our services in the member states to ensure all concerns expressed here today are conveniently addressed. i would like to clarify something about the rights of the indigenous people. i can indicate that the issue has been touched upon in the context of the regular annual discussions on human rights between chile and the eu and will continue to be addressed if there are reasons for concern. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation for parliament’s input in these negotiations, which will in turn contribute to a successful agreement.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, human rights are about real people, each one with their own story to tell. in the last year we have constantly tried to show this: when we talk about principles and values we talk about human beings. when we work for human rights, we work to make a real difference to millions of lives around the world. this was the main focus of the campaign we launched to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, and this is also the logic that drives the new annual report. we live in a difficult moment for human rights around the world. in too many countries the situation has become worse, not better. this moment tells us that progress can never be taken for granted, and this is why we should continue working for positive change. but the report also shows that our action can make a real difference. progress can happen, and it is happening in many parts of the world – thanks also to our commitment. for every violation of human rights, there are many more good stories to tell. for every criminal, there are many more human rights defenders. in this fight for justice, we know where we stand. and the report i am presenting today on behalf of the high representative shows what our commitment means in practice. it maps our work firstly to strengthen democracy. secondly, to end the death penalty. and thirdly, to support the rights of minorities. these are just a few examples. let me say a few words on the structure of the report. last year you recommended making the report more readable and publishing it without delay. so this year we have decided to focus on thematic issues and use country-specific examples, rather than going through each country one by one. country reports now feature on our website so that the process is still transparent but also much faster. with the report we do not only want to provide a picture of the activities we do, but also to show our impact and give concrete examples, once again to show that human rights are not only about international law – the strictly legalistic approach – they are about people’s lives and they are the foundation of more solid societies. the report, for instance, mentions the cases of violence against vulnerable children in fortaleza, brazil, that have been cut by two thirds thanks to our support. and federica mogherini has just come back from jordan, where she took part in the graduation ceremony for over 100 syrian refugees who were able to finish university thanks to our financial support. but let me also mention the first ever election observation mission that we deployed in the gambia to accompany the country’s extraordinary path from dictatorship towards a truly inclusive democracy. i would like to thank in particular the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, who has contributed to many of these ‘good human rights stories’ and for making them more visible. ‘good human rights stories’ is the name of a new initiative to be launched at the un general assembly high level week in september. the aim is to show, together with a broad alliance of countries from across the globe, examples of where positive human rights practices have made fundamental changes to individual lives, communities and societies. in the coming year we will be celebrating these stories. they show where strong human rights protection frameworks have been put in place, where communities have been made stronger through the work of civil society organisations and where countries have shown that poverty reduction and sustainable development can be achieved hand-in-hand with making progress in human rights. stavros lambrinidis is also putting into practice one of the main ideas from our human rights action plan: the need to engage with all actors at all levels, because only through engagement can we improve the human rights’ situation around the world. last year we published the mid-term review of the eu action plan. the review showed an encouraging trend concerning human rights dialogues, which are gaining in legitimacy and exerting a more positive impact on third countries. again, this should only reinforce our commitment to engaging constantly with our interlocutors, particularly where and when human rights are not respected. in this respect our european union delegations around the world are at the forefront of our daily work. our staff in delegations monitor and follow up on cases of human rights violations. they meet with the lawyers of jailed human rights defenders and attend trials as observers. and they lead local dialogues on human rights with the national authorities. they are very often the face of the european union in the world, and it is also thanks to their work that we are known as a credible and reliable force for democracy and human rights. this is not an easy moment for fundamental rights, democracy and human rights defenders. in a moment like this, it would be easy to fall into cynicism and despair. we must continue to critically assess our own approach and adjust, where necessary. the scrutiny of this parliament is indispensable in this regard. but as we do this, we must also keep in mind all the progress we have achieved together, and all the lives that have improved thanks to the european union’s commitment. there is always hope, even in difficult times like these. and precisely in difficult times like these we must redouble our efforts.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i welcome the work done in 2017 by the institutions of the european union to promote human rights and democracy in all corners of the world. this work is summarized in the annual report adopted by the council a few weeks ago. i also welcome the new, shorter and more concise format of the report. i was particularly pleased to read that the promotion of democracy is taking on greater importance, as is the work that the european institutions and our delegations in third countries are doing on a day-to-day basis. i have campaigned for this throughout this mandate and especially when i was parliament's rapporteur on the annual report. i believe that we cannot imagine a situation in which human rights are respected in the absence of a well-established democratic framework. in 2017, we have seen how authoritarian regimes continue to violate the most basic rights of their citizens. i am thinking of the venezuelans, whose freedom of expression is being challenged and whose economic and social rights simply no longer exist. in the same vein, i am thinking of cuba, but also of north korea, which the eyes of the world are turning to today, forgetting that it is one of the worst dictatorships in history. moreover, in 2017, a number of leaders turned to the mirage of authoritarianism, as in turkey. in all these cases, i believe we must continue to act and redouble our efforts together with our member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we are living in a dark time for investigative journalism and for a free press. there's abuse, violence, torture, pressure and it's gotten to murder. daphne and jan were killed because they were fighting this fight against corruption, crime and the mafia. just like investigative journalism and digging up all the politicians' mess. the truth is not to be paid with your life. truth must be applauded and rewarded. one danger to these investigative journalists is that there are lawsuits in other countries, in other jurisdictions, against journalists, because that intimidates them, the costs are very high, they can't cope, and they risk going bankrupt or giving up everything they have for such lawsuits. they started to practice these lawsuits against the investigative journalist. the only solution is to amend and adopt modern anti-slapp legislation for these lawsuits in other jurisdictions across the european union as soon as possible.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new convention on the rights of the child, which was adopted in december 2017. all too often, children are exposed to specific abuse and therefore need increased protection. child labour, recruitment into armed conflict and early and forced marriage remain critical issues in certain countries. a significant number also need assistance, particularly in the areas of health and access to education, water and sanitation. i believe it is essential that we at european level draw up an action plan for the coming years to give priority to children's rights in the european union's external policies. the european union has a moral obligation to continue its efforts to protect children from violence, abuse and exploitation.
mr president the european union is seen as a region in the world that upholds human rights at a high level and expects its partners to do the same. human rights are for everyone, including those who seek refuge from persecution and come from a country where not only are their human rights not guaranteed, but their lives are in danger. but that does not mean that we do not want to keep europe a place where no one is discriminated against on the grounds of colour, religion or ethnic origin, and where women do not question the equality of men. human rights are also a european right, and if people who believe in social norms that differ from our own come to us, they must adapt to the model on which we organize our lives and on which we have built the european union. i am convinced that the guarantee of human rights also requires first and foremost the rule of law and its observance, otherwise europe cannot remain a leader in the guarantee of human rights.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, ten years after the war in 2008 in georgia, we, as the european union, have not stopped working for peace and for a true solution to the conflict. i thank this parliament for having this debate today. at the height of the war, the mediation of the european union (you might remember that) prevented further escalation and ultimately resulted in a cessation of hostilities. since then, the european union has been a central actor in the process to manage the consequences of the conflict, to improve the lives of all people in the region and to find a lasting solution. we have, as the european union, a very special role to play, particularly because of our european union monitoring mission to georgia. to date, we are the only international monitoring presence in the field. the mission has fulfilled an indispensable function of stabilisation, to the benefit of all the communities afflicted by the conflict. the mission can currently count on over 200 civilian experts in areas adjacent to georgia’s breakaway regions. its mandate is not only to monitor the stabilisation and normalisation processes but also to actively build confidence, reduce tensions and prevent new escalations. as we work on the ground with the mission, we continue, also, to have a strong non-recognition policy. we continue to condemn russia’s recognition of georgia’s breakaway regions, and very recently the syrian arab republic also announced that it would establish diplomatic relations with abkhazia and south ossetia, and we immediately condemned this move, together with the entire international community. it is a violation of international law and it will only make the resolution of the conflict more difficult to achieve. we are also denouncing the steps taken by moscow to consolidate what it calls new realities on the ground. among other things, we do not accept russia’s military build-up in the breakaway entities and its construction of physical barriers on the dividing lines. all our actions aim at improving the life of all people in the region. together with the osce and with the united nations, we continue to steer the geneva international discussions to address the consequences of the conflict. the european union special representative for the south caucasus and the crisis in georgia co-chairs these talks, with a focus on ensuring security and stability on the ground, as well as tackling humanitarian issues that impact on the life of the local population. progress in these discussions is limited, as you might know, in particular when they address improved modalities for security and stability, but also issues related to internally-displaced persons and refugees. in spite of this, the discussions have helped make the security situation on the ground relatively manageable. above all, the discussions are an opportunity for us to remind participants – starting with the russian authorities – that the situation is unsustainable and unacceptable. it is not only unacceptable for the violation of international law, but first and foremost for the impact it has on all the people in the two entities, elsewhere in georgia and in the entire region. of course, our engagement with georgia goes well beyond our monitoring mission and also well beyond the geneva discussions. it is a true partnership – i would say friendship – a strong one, based on political association and development cooperation, on economic exchanges as well as on a strong friendship between our people. our approach is to include the breakaway regions in our programmes in georgia whenever this is possible. this is what we are doing, for instance, with our programmes on agriculture, on rural development and vocational training. we are also assisting civil society initiatives in the entities. we support all initiatives that can help re-establish confidence between the sides, such as people-to-people contacts, dialogue processes and academic exchanges. all our actions within the two regions are fully coordinated – i would like to underline this, because i think it’s a very important point – are fully coordinated and approved by the government of georgia and in full line with the georgian engagement policy. in light of the recent peace initiative of the georgian state ministry of reconciliation, we are now looking at the possibility of providing further support. for instance, there is a clear interest from the breakaway regions to increase trade with the rest of georgia, but also with the rest of the region, and this would represent a major improvement for the life of local communities, and for all people in the wider region. we are also considering a mobility scheme for academics from the breakaway regions, and this could also be facilitated by the peace initiative i just mentioned. our policy is one of non-recognition but also of engagement with abkhazia and south ossetia, exactly in line with the approach of the georgian government. the conflict has impacted first and foremost on the people of these two regions. they’re not free to explore the full economic potential of their lands; jobs and opportunities are lost, and beyond abkhazia and south ossetia, an entire region suffers from the consequences of the conflict. so, ten years after the war, we do not and will not stop working: first of all for achieving a true solution, and secondly for all local communities, for their development and for their dignity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i am very pleased that this debate is taking place to mark the 10th anniversary of the russian invasion of georgian territory. i am also glad that my group, with the help of a few other colleagues, was able to stop the initiatives coming from the far left and, of course, also from some socialists who wanted to talk about a war between georgia and russia, thus taking up the rhetoric of the kremlin. what happened in 2008 was indeed an invasion by russia of the territory of an independent neighboring country, it should be remembered. moreover, 10 years after these events - it should also be said - the russians are doing everything on the ground to annex de facto abkhazia and south ossetia, in violation of all principles of international law. this is of course unacceptable and we must also remember that just before this invasion, unfortunately, nato was not able to take the decision to include georgia. the current situation is a result of this lack of solidarity and political intelligence. it should also be remembered that putin's russia is seeking to control the countries around it by military force, as in the soviet union. this is why we have real black holes in the map of europe: in transnistria, the territory of moldova, in the west of ukraine and in georgia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the occupation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia by russia was the result of georgia’s nato ambitions at the bucharest summit ten years ago. georgia paid a high price for its aspiration but, in these ten difficult years, georgia has managed to make incredible progress along its european integration path and, in particular, to visa liberalisation and the association agreement. this is the best sign that russia did not manage to take georgia and the georgian people away from their dreams and will not manage to succeed with ukraine. ten years after, georgia is a much stronger and more developed country, a model for the east european partners of our union, and an example also in the way it deals with the occupied territories – especially with the initiative aimed at peace and reconciliation by the georgian government. the s&d fully back the european path for georgia and condemns all actions undertaken by russia in undermining any prospect for peace, including the de facto integration of abkhazia and south ossetia into the russian customs system, the referendum and the name change of south ossetia and the military deals with the two regions. we also condemn russian disinformation and hybrid war and we call on the eu to help our georgian friends to face all these challenges and to take the lead towards a permanent solution guaranteeing georgia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – any violation of international law, any illegal occupation of a territory belonging to a sovereign state, should be condemned. this is why, definitely, we condemn the occupation of the northern part of cyprus as well as we condemn any occupation, be it the two provinces of georgia or crimea, by russia.
mr president, it is now 10 years since the russian military aggression against georgia, and the russian federation still continues the illegal occupation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia, undermining basic international law. today we reaffirm our strong support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within its internationally-recognised borders, and we reiterate our solidarity with the people of occupied georgia. the eu has not forgotten what took place in 2008. the 2008 invasion was a major russian open attack against the european order and was followed by the annexation of crimea and the war in eastern ukraine. it is time for the russian federation to unconditionally fulfil all the provisions of the cease-fire agreement and to withdraw all its military forces from the territory of georgia. the eu must continue pressure against the russian federation and support even further the association-agreement countries of georgia, moldova and ukraine on their european path.
mr president when we analyze the security situation in the caucasus, we cannot ignore russia's moves and actions. we have heard a lot about the events in georgia, and i would like to draw your attention to another country that is internationally recognized and has a russian military presence. this is the republic of moldova, which has often had to contend with the encroachments of surrounding great powers throughout its history. moldova has a special relationship with romania, the majority of the population is romanian-speaking and a significant part of its political elite is committed to european integration. however, it cannot be ignored that the russian 14th army is stationed in the territory of the republic of dniester and russia has repeatedly indicated that it is monitoring the fate of this territory. it is in the light of this reality that the steps that constitute the eu's eastern partnership policy towards moldova need to be designed.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all, let me thank everyone for their support for the work we are doing together with the authorities in georgia, to, first of all, make sure that this conflict is not forgotten. those of you who mentioned this are perfectly right. there is that risk, because of the proliferation of crises and conflicts around us. making sure that this is not forgotten and doesn’t slip into the shadows is our priority, together with the authorities in georgia. thank you for this report on the policies that we have put in place over the years and that we are determined to continue, first of all the search for a solution through our diplomatic action, through our work on the geneva talks, the focus on people and citizens which, at the end of the day, are the reason for our work and, in particular, through our work in the monitoring mission, that i have heard many of you support, and in all the different fields of work we have in our partnership with georgia. i would like to stress here that it is a partnership that is deep. it is a friendship that also goes beyond this work we are doing on abkhazia and south ossetia. mr president, if you allow me, i would like to take the opportunity, as i have the floor and before we start the next debate, to share with you one positive feeling that today we are lucky enough to have. just a few moments ago, respectively in skopje and in athens, prime minister zoran zaev and prime minister alexis tsipras announced that they had found a bilateral agreement, under un auspices, on the name issue. i think they deserve all our support and our congratulations for an historic moment ... (applause)... that will be important not only for the two countries, but also for the entire region, for europe and for the world, showing – as we have mentioned several times today – that through dialogue, perseverance, leadership, courage and diplomacy, solutions are possible, including to the most difficult issues. i will be honoured to join them for the signature of this agreement in the coming days. thank you also for the signal of support that you showed a moment ago. i think this is very important for both of them and for the entire region.
in writing. 10 years after the start of the so-called peacekeeping operation of the russian federation in georgia, over 20% of the officially recognized territory of georgia is still under russian occupation. kremlin agents continue to advance into georgian territory, repeatedly moving the line of demarcation. people went to bed in georgia today, and woke up on the other side of the fence, under russian occupation. the operation in georgia set the tone for the implementation of the imperialist policy of the putin regime. here moscow tested its annexation techniques, later used in crimea. if we remain spectators, we will find ourselves under dictatorship. some people forget that democracy has to be defended every day. moscow must abandon its annexation policy and respect the territorial integrity of its neighbors.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is no secret that in the light of a marked deterioration of europe’s security environment, the relations between the eu and nato have got a new increased relevance. indeed now that internal and external security are inextricably interlinked, putting together the best abilities of the two organisations in providing security in general for the european citizens becomes imperative. since crimea in 2014, the basis and substance of collaboration between the eu and nato have accelerated and enlarged, so that today we speak about no less than 74 common actions. however, as of late, the transatlantic relationship has become strained following the recent trade disputes between the us and their allies. under the circumstances, besides trying to manage these disputes so that they do not get out of hand, one should also attempt on the one hand to insulate the security dimension of that relationship from its commercial one, and on the other, preserve and accelerate the existing good momentum in the eu-nato collaboration. in general, given the existing fragile setting, what otherwise are normal differences of opinion between the two organisations today require more sensitive management so that we can overcome the difficulties of the moment. the changing atmosphere related to the topic has been felt during the consultation and writing of the present report, a fact illustrated by comparing its first draft with the version used for the vote in the committee on foreign affairs. the report is based on the premise that the eu and nato, both confronted with the same challenges and threats, share the same values in their complementary activity devoted to preserving peace and security in a rules-based international system. in regard to those threats and challenges, the upsurge in russia’s military assertive behaviour and activities, political manipulation and cyberattacks, as well as direct interference in european countries’ internal affairs aiming at undermining their unity, are equally concerning to both the eu and nato, a reality underlined by the fact that many of the 74 common activities mentioned above are directly devoted to countering exactly such actions. the report is addressing, understandably, the transatlantic relations and is stressing that the eu’s own increased defence and security efforts, apart from responding to us previous appeals, see for instance the ‘adios’ speeches of both defence secretaries gates and panetta, are a concrete contribution to burden-sharing, reinforcing both nato and the security bond with britain after brexit. the eu-nato joint declaration and the subsequent implementation actions mark a new and substantive phase of the strategic partnership. in that context, the report looks forward to the new joint declaration to be adopted at the approaching brussels nato summit in july. as expected, special attention is given to the collaboration between the two organisations in military mobility, recently identified as a priority area of cooperation between them, and in this respect suggest that the west-east axis should be complemented with a new one running north-south, which would confer the necessary coherence to their eastern flank. controlling hybrid threats, countering cyberattacks, building resilience, sharing situational awareness, increased information-sharing, fighting terrorism and continuous improvement of cooperation on mission and operations at both strategic and tactical level, represent concrete domains for collaboration between the eu and nato that were mentioned and supported in the report.
madam president, as my colleagues have already done, i would like to welcome the opening of this new era in cooperation between the union and nato since the warsaw declaration of 2016. complementarity, operational cooperation, more effective coordination are key words, and as my colleague mr danjean has reminded us, we must always bear in mind the combination of nato's collective defence and the union's strategic autonomy. i think that's a good plan to follow. this is how europe will be a credible partner, especially in the current conditions, namely a renewed russian aggressiveness on the baltic borders and in the countries of eastern europe, including the western balkans. i could not finish without congratulating mr paşcu on his report. i would also suggest that he send this report to his party leader in bucharest, who has much more to say about the union and nato than mr dragnea, who has just said that the union and nato have financed what they call the 'parallel state'.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the high representative, ms mogherini, because she gave us a lot of extra information in the beginning, so we now know more about the collaboration, but also because she responded to some of the problems raised by my colleagues here and makes my task easier from this point of view. our debate has been another example of the classical paradigm in which a bunch of blindfolded men are touching an elephant, and everyone is touching one part of that elephant and is describing a totally different animal. so although we have the same report in front of us, you saw how differently we present it. to mr van orden and i would say that, instead of still using the old the image of a half-empty and a half-full glass, i would say that we have a glass which we fill from the two faucets at the same time. this probably better indicates the reality. i did not know that i have to bring something new in this report, because i did not know that this should be considered a phd thesis. some colleagues would like to see the novelty and when they don’t, they don’t like it. i am not a good samaritan. my life experience up until now indicated to me that practically turning the cheek for another slap is not always the right thing to do, and that’s why i support the eu’s efforts in the field of security and defence. i would also say thank you to mr preda for his congratulations, but i’m also regretting the fact that he could not isolate himself from bringing internal politics into our discussion today. i would like to conclude by saying thanks to all the rapporteurs. indeed we worked very, very well. there were many amendments. we found the compromises, which are reflected in the report. at the same time i’m thanking everybody who has said good words about the report but also the critics, because it indicates that they took the effort to read the report.
madam president, cohesion policy is without doubt one of the fundamental european policies and it offers the best tools for implementing the circular economy. sustainable economic growth requires the most efficient and responsible use of resources of all kinds, as they are limited. the involvement of local and regional authorities, as well as other partners, in the processes of developing circular economy strategies is essential and should take into account the strengthening of partnerships on a horizontal basis. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that less developed regions generally face problems of lack of administrative capacity. in this respect, i believe that funding programmes should be better tailored to the profile of regions aiming to exploit their sustainable potential, and that support should be geared towards a smooth transition to the principles of the circular economy. this is why an increase in circular economy spending in cohesion policy after 2020 is needed.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the european commission and i would like you to convey to mrs crețu, in particular, my congratulations to her, because the circular economy has been included among the first five priorities for cohesion policy. it's very important because when we talk about the circular economy, we're talking about a radical change in the way we think about, make and use products in our daily lives. europe bears the burden of responsibility to become a global leader in this area, especially with regard to decisions by some of our strategic partners. we can't go on with the current principles, since resources are becoming scarcer, more expensive and more damaging to the environment to obtain. research and innovation today offer us alternatives to harmful processes, developed in the past but used today. why do we not use the best technology, commissioner, when it comes to cohesion funds, when it comes to countries that today do not have effective collection systems. let's invest in what we need!
mr president, it is of great significance that one year ago the council approved the signature of the istanbul convention. but can we really celebrate today in terms of facts and figures? violence against women is an extremely serious crime and a serious breach of human rights. still, it is a persistent issue in the member states. the numbers are alarming, as every third woman has been a victim of physical or sexual violence in the eu. in romania there have been more than 20 000 reported cases in 2017, but we know that the majority of incidents do not even come to the attention of the police. there is still a long way to go until real practices follow ratification acts and the different forms of gender-based violence diminish in our societies. the istanbul convention is not only about numbers but also about changing current attitudes in our households as well as shaping the future behaviour of the next generation. member states can no longer tolerate abusive behaviour towards women and need to join forces to implement action to combat such violence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we - at least those of us who are here, not the colleagues who have left - agree that the signing of the istanbul convention was a first step. ratification in other states, by some of the member states, was the second step. but it's very important if we take into account what it says in this istanbul convention. we have to be careful, and i'm surprised that a colleague here says it depends on the country. violence does not depend on nationality, it does not depend on anything. violence is violence and we must fight it with all means: prevention - through education, punishments - must be a harsh punishment for those who dare to rape women, young women, children, for cases of forced marriage. we have so many ugly forms of violence and i really believe that we have to be united in this and i'm glad that yesterday, before the anniversary of the signing of the convention, we had an own-initiative report on education. i think we need to link education and include violence prevention in education.
mr president, i will refer to two of the prime minister’s key words: unity and trust. i remember that we have to pay attention. if the gap between what we preach and what we practise is only getting larger then we are offering support to populism, euroscepticism and even anti-euro cronyism. this is why i have two questions for you. what is your view on the future of the schengen ssystem and what role do you see for romania and bulgaria, knowing that your country systematically – and without any legal basis in the treaties – opposed the integration of my country into schengen? the second question is: what is your vision of the future of the eurozone, considering that a moment ago you referred to president juncker’s state of union speech with some, should i say, offensive connotations? if you have a vision, you should go to the doctor. what is your vision of the future of the eurozone and how can the eurozone be enlarged to integrate new member states?
mr. president, mr. prime minister, here behind you, if you look... i am also a member of the european parliament from romania and i want to appreciate a few words you have said. yes, europe has to make some decisions. yes, we all need to benefit from free movement. yeah, we have to deal with some emergencies. we must be united, you spoke of unity. you spoke of european competitiveness, mr prime minister, very nicely. but, come on, mr. prime minister, let's use this word that you used, or this expression, team up. i will just express it: team up, team up and respect the laws, prime minister. respect the laws and the requests that were made here in parliament and in the council, and bring romania and bulgaria into schengen. don't mix up corruption, because your ambassador had a meal for the new year with a criminal person from romania who was convicted in the first instance. so please respect the law, prime minister.
mr president, mr prime minister, there are two issues i would like to bring to your attention, namely: your country has consistently opposed the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area in the council, even though we fulfilled all the technical conditions, being providers of security and stability in the region. i would like to ask you clearly: what is your position today on the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area, because the current situation seems to me profoundly unacceptable and unfair to the romanian people. the second problem is the one concerning the budget of the european union. the netherlands today is opposed to increasing the national contribution to the eu budget to a level that would allow for adequate funding of cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, but also to address challenges such as migration or border security. in this context, i ask you, mr prime minister, how do you think we can make a strong european union without the financial resources to do so?
mr president, mr prime minister, as a member of the european council you have declared yourself an opponent of romania and bulgaria's integration into the schengen area, whereas romania is already acting de facto, defending over 2 000 kilometres of the eastern european border. your opposition has consolidated and fueled a discourse of some eurosceptics in romania, who link this decision to certain protectionist economic policies and the delay in the entry of the port of constanta in romania into competition with other ports in the european union. in the previous plenary session, the european parliament reiterated its call for romania and bulgaria to be integrated immediately into the schengen area and - as you rightly pointed out by giving the example of the roman empire - the great empires fall apart if they fail to secure their borders. two weeks after the european parliament's decision, i would like to ask you: what is your position on the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area?
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that in my country there is still a lot of sympathy for his beautiful tulip country. but don’t forget, prime minister, that these tulip flowers come from east europe. we share the same values in our history and we ask you to share the same values in the european union, to respect the treaty of schengen acquis and to respect all the treaties, because for us the rule of law means respect for the treaties of the european union, including the lisbon treaty.
mr prime minister, romania deserves the schengen. i listened carefully to your speech and in the spirit of what you said, especially about solidarity, i ask you to support the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. i am making this appeal because it is incomprehensible to romanian citizens that the netherlands opposes romania's entry into schengen. there is a current of opinion in my country that the netherlands is opposed to romania's accession to the schengen area so that the port of constanta does not become a direct competitor of the port of rotterdam. because romania has fulfilled all the criteria for accession - and not only i say this, the commission says it, the european parliament knows it too - and if there were other reasons, other states would certainly have opposed romania's entry into the schengen area. that is why, in conclusion, mr prime minister, i ask you to support romania's entry into the schengen area, as well as bulgaria's.
prime minister of the netherlands. – mr president, i am so happy that the whole parliament has now come together to listen to my final reply. thank you all for participating in this debate. i believe it is an excellent opportunity to discuss the big issues of the european union and how we can work together. there were so many questions, i cannot answer all of them but i have tried to bring them back to basically four key issues. the first of them, of course, is the multiannual financial framework (mff). ms schreijer-pierik, i am of course in favour of the common agricultural policy. it has to stay, but it also has to modernise and the whole budget has to modernise. we, as politicians, have to make choices in scarcity. we have to make choices about what we are going to spend our money on. i am absolutely convinced that we cannot just say there are new tasks which have to be funded and, at the same time, we cannot find savings in the existing budget. that is the plea i am making here. that is exactly what all the member states have to do. i believe that simply saying we have to go to 1.3% again will only fuel the extremists who are saying that europe is not making the necessary choices. secondly, on migration: here today i reach out my hand to italy because i know that they have to deal with an extremely difficult situation. but i also eagerly await the italian government’s national measures because they have to do a lot in order to manage the inflow of illegal migrants better, and then they know that we stand ready to show solidarity and, as the european union, to work collectively to address this issue, which no doubt will be with us for years to come. ms de lange rightly alluded to the common european asylum system, and we need, as part of that, to take out the root causes of migration. this is also my answer to mr bashir on this issue: better guarding of our borders and working on better return mechanisms for rejected asylum seekers. again, i hope that i will be successful, with my colleagues at the european council in june, in taking the necessary decisions although, looking at where the debate is now, it is not an absolute given that we will be successful on this. many of you alluded to or discussed schengen and the accession of bulgaria and romania. let me be very clear on this: i welcome the fact that both bulgaria and romania have the aspiration fully to join the schengen acquis. we acknowledge the work which has been done in bulgaria and romania on this issue, but we also know the work is not yet finished. romania and bulgaria need to meet several conditions that stem from joining the eu, as defined in the cooperation and verification mechanism, one of the benchmarks of which concerns corruption – and, here too, a deal is a deal. we cannot have countries entering the schengen area if they do not fulfil all the criteria. another issue is that of which tasks the european union should be working on. for example, one of the tasks raised by the s&d group is the issue of a social europe. i believe that social affairs have to stay at a national level, but when social affairs have a cross-border impact then europe also needs to get involved. therefore, for example, this issue of making sure that people get paid the same amount of money in the same circumstances for the same type of work is an issue where europe has a role to play, as it does in the area of transportation. i know that one of the speakers was the chair of the biggest dutch union and i am absolutely convinced that, in those days, she would have fully agreed with what i have just stated. as i said in my speech, the european union has to concentrate on its core tasks: those being, of course, the internal market, economic and monetary union (emu), external borders, the issue of migration and, yes, the big issue of climate change. finally, regarding the eurozone and emu: as you know, a particular subject on the agenda for the european council meeting at the end of june is the banking union. i believe that we need to take the necessary next steps on the banking union. but let me also go back to what was the basic promise of the euro, namely that it was not a redistribution of wealth but that our cooperation makes the cake bigger for everyone. that was the basis of emu. i believe that emu can deliver on this only if all the member states get their house in order, which means aiming for sound and sustainable budgets and competitive economies through the implementation of structural reforms. when you do this, you will have not one big european mechanism to absorb macroeconomic shocks, but rather mechanisms at national level – 19 shock-absorption funds – and then you will not need additional stabilisation funds at european level. we also have to remain focused – and this is crucial – on structural reforms. they are essential for competitive and shock-resistant economies, and here, as i said in my speech, already at the moment in the mmf, we are spending hundreds of billions of euros within the eurozone on cohesion funds, on a common agricultural policy and on structural funds. my plea would be that the eurozone countries, together with the commission, would give much clearer guidance on how to make better use of that already existing money in order to ensure that it fuels and supports structural changes in our national economies, because that would mean we were making better use of the existing money. the idea of the commission proposals is to put some extra money in for the eurozone, but here i would say that we already have hundreds of billions of euros on the table and we can make better use of them. so, in terms of emu reform, the main issue on the agenda at the end of june will be the banking union but also we will no doubt discuss some wider themes, and this will be part of my input to that debate. thank you again for hosting me and giving me this opportunity. i thank the whole parliament for this wonderful initiative and i will tell all my colleagues – six have already been here, i was number seven – that they should all come because it is useful, it is invigorating and it is also great fun. so thank you. (applause)
in writing. i hope, mr prime minister, that neither you nor the council are focusing on the last part of the quote! i listened carefully and agreed with some of your statements, but you disagreed on many points! you said you wanted a better europe, but you don't want to support a bigger budget for cohesion. you said that states must work together, that you understand the value of compromise and shared interests, but at the same time you support tax havens in your country and not the interests of all european citizens! an eloquent example is the systematic opposition to the entry of romania and bulgaria into schengen, although they have been meeting all the technical conditions for seven years! you said that the eu should take account of the position of the national parliaments, but in the council you take this into account on a discretionary basis, even though you said that the eu should listen to its citizens! all the citizens, mr prime minister! then listen to the millions of romanians and bulgarians, but also to the citizens of other countries who are asking for romania and bulgaria to be admitted to schengen! you spoke of unity, but you add solidarity! what kind of union can ignore social cohesion?
mr. president, in ukraine, the law for the establishment of the anti-corruption court has been adopted. this success is due to the firm stance of the world bank, the international monetary fund and the european union, which refused to allocate funds until the adoption of this law on the anti-corruption tribunal. the efforts of civil society and responsible politicians in ukraine should also be mentioned. yeah, we see that the conditionality is working. therefore, the union must not give any more money until it sees results. today i gave the green light for another billion euros to be transferred to kiev. i ask the politicians there to use it responsibly for reform, for the people and against corruption.
mr. president, a key point of next month's nato summit is defending against cyber attacks, which are becoming increasingly common. recent events show that cyber attacks are part of hybrid warfare and nato needs to respond effectively and swiftly. in addition, we must be prepared for crisis situations. transport infrastructure, roads, bridges, railways need to be modernised in all member states. and bureaucratic barriers need to be removed, so that the flow of transportation of personnel and equipment can go, not be stopped by bureaucracy. we must definitely and very clearly cooperate with nato in all these matters that concern our defence.
mr. president, cyber threats range from politically motivated attacks funded by states like the russian federation to forms of terrorism. moscow uses billions of dollars to pay thousands of experts to launch attacks on computer systems in member states and overseas. terrorist groups use cyberspace, which is a cheap and accessible way to recruit and to radicalise. in virtual space, the military realm cannot be clearly separated from the civilian realm, and those who want to attack us take advantage of our hesitations. there are solutions. i hope that at the next nato summit next month, they'll find even more. but we clearly need european and international databases to be interoperable, to communicate with each other and to have a coordinated platform so that information can be transmitted and analysed quickly and efficiently.
madam president, thank you very much. i would like to congratulate my colleague andreas schwab for the work done on this dossier and for the compromise he reached in the negotiation. in the eu, qualification requirements can differ widely between member states, resulting, among other things, in fragmentation of the single market. the proposed introduction of a proportionality test before adoption of a new regulation on professionals will on the one hand harmonise activities within the eu and on the other hand deepen the single market for services and foster growth. i come from a country, romania, and myself i studied medicine, where health professionals are very well trained but choose to leave the country for better jobs. knowing the specificity of this profession, i think that the rapporteur is right to propose the creation of a specific status for healthcare professions. i fully agree that the member states should take due account of the objective of ensuring a high level of requirements for healthcare professions, such as reserve activities, protected professional title, continuous professional development and rules relating to geographical distribution or the organisation of the profession, professional ethics and supervision, while respecting the minimal training conditions as laid down in directive 2005/36/ec. in conclusion, with all the improvements from the work in the internal market and consumer protection (imco) committee and in other committees, this proposal will strengthen the internal market and will make our union greater and stronger.
madam president, while an occupational regulation can be a means to safeguard consumer interest, it can often turn into a rent-seeking activity for powerful occupational groups, with harmful effects on labour markets. indeed, in most cases, there are valid policy reasons to justify the regulation of professions, such as the need to ensure good performance or for security or safety reasons. however, data shows that this is not always the case. according to business europe, many activities are regulated in only a few member states and more than 25% of them are regulated in just one member state. from the perspective of the internal market, mobile workers represent a meagre 3.3% of the total workforce. intra-european mobility is already made difficult by factors such as language, access to information, bureaucracy and social security provisions. overregulation of some professions adds another layer of burden for mobile service providers. as a measure to prevent further fragmentation of the single market, the proposed proportionality test system is therefore very welcome.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the colleagues who have contributed through amendments to the improvement of the commission's proposal. it is a very important report and i hope it will be voted on tomorrow. of course there are professions - as was shown in today's debates - that needed to be regulated. i am convinced that this regulation will make it easier to work across borders, to recognise qualifications. states are free to certify under this report, but they must also report. at the same time, as the rapporteur, mr schwab, said, there are professions such as the craft sector which should be regulated on a unitary basis, as well as other professions. i believe that the report is balanced and can be voted on and i hope that it will bring an improvement for the internal market. we all want it to be developed and to have very good professions and, of course, to contribute to increasing competitiveness in the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations on the post-cotonou partnership agreement represent an opportunity to renew eu-acp relations in order to address the common challenges we face. while welcoming the commission's proposal for the general architecture for future cooperation between the acp group of countries and the european union, i would like to stress that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the sustainable development goals and the european consensus on development must form the core of the future partnership. in addition, it is essential that the fight against poverty remains a central element of the new agreement, as do conditions related to respect for human rights, including explicit references to liability, the monitoring and review mechanism in case of non-compliance. similarly, it is essential to involve civil society in the political dialogue and i reiterate that its full participation should be a binding part of the partnership. in conclusion, i stress the importance of strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the future agreement by ensuring that the future joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) ensures an open, democratic and comprehensive parliamentary dialogue.
mr president the development of roma integration strategies was itself a recognition of the special situation of roma communities and the eu's intention to play an active role in solving the problems together with the member states. i think it is very important that the eu tries to monitor the work of the national authorities, but we must also see that the most important thing that governments can do to implement the strategies is to do so. the issue is extremely complex, but i feel that the most important is the social and educational dimension, because the recovery of roma communities can only be successful if their members feel that they have the opportunity to break out of poverty and that their situation can be significantly improved through education. if we look at the labour market developments in the cee region, we have to realize that there is a huge need for roma people who are currently unable to enter the labour market because of their low level of qualification. roma integration is therefore not only important for roma, but also has many benefits for all member states and local communities.
mr president moving beyond the limits of our mother tongue and learning foreign languages brings many cultural, social and, not least, economic benefits. at the same time, knowledge of foreign languages and therefore quality language education is becoming increasingly necessary in today's multicultural world. nowhere is this more evident than in the european union. this gives the opportunity to learn about each other's cultures, to deepen relations between nations, but it also gives effect to one of the eu's fundamental principles: the free movement of labour, which would not be possible effectively without the practice of a foreign language. it is therefore important that all eu action supports the idea of modernising language teaching so that we can ensure the conditions for modern language teaching. i also think it is important to focus more on strengthening relations between neighbouring countries through language education, in addition to the basic languages. it may be useful to have a foreign language taught in a country other than the basic foreign language as the language of one of the country's neighbouring countries. this could also make communication between neighbouring countries and mutually beneficial mobility more efficient.
madam president, commissioner, the question to the commission is pertinent. we all want to be corrupt. i say all, i believe in the good faith of my colleagues in the european parliament. but commissioner, before pointing the finger at one country or another, do you not think that we should have - as has been said here - a common definition of crime, common tools for measuring crime, for monitoring, for reporting, for accurate information, because we cannot make decisions on some information that we do not know how to collect. commissioner, you said we had to protect whistleblowers. i'm with you. but what do you say about what's happening in my country, where, after certain whistleblowers, without any basis, have denounced, prosecutors have tortured dozens of people, who have now been acquitted after trials. i think the solution, commissioner, is not to stigmatise a country but to establish these measures. and i'll tell you one more thing. the commission often says - and it was discussed today - that you will be subject to conditions for european funds. but mr juncker did not answer, nor did you, which are the instruments by which you measure the rule of law, so as not to make this assessment subjective in the allocation of european funds.
the question is "blue cardboard". i thank my colleague for accepting my question. he mentioned the need to launch negotiations with russia. do you not think that the time has come for the high representative of the european union, mrs mogherini, to engage in a serious process with russia to establish a system of negotiations between ukraine and russia regarding the crimean political prisoners held by russia?
mr president, this is a 'blue card' for you, because our political group has two minutes for mr zdechovský. so please check with your secretariat, because we don't want to be penalized. i am speaking here as the epp coordinator.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we have tried to have a dialogue... (the president withdraws the speaker)
au nom du groupe ppe. – mr president, unbelievable these socialists! monsieur le président, nous avons toujours tenté d’avoir un dialogue avec le bahreïn sur la question des droits. malheureusement, ce dialogue n’est pas possible vu le refus des autorités, à deux reprises, de recevoir une délégation du parlement européen. cette demande de dialogue est une initiative du ppe, madame schaake. cette visite aurait été l’occasion d’échanger ouvertement sur les défis que le pays doit relever en matière de respect des droits, je pense notamment au respect de la liberté d’expression, que ce soit pour les défenseurs des droits ou pour la participation des partis d’opposition au jeu politique, particulièrement dans le contexte des élections prévues cet automne. le cas de nabil rajab, que le parlement européen a déjà soulevé à plusieurs reprises, est très inquiétant et nous attendons un signal fort de la part des autorités du pays, à savoir sa libération immédiate. monsieur le président, j’espère que la prochaine fois, sous votre présidence, le ppe ne sera pas pénalisé suite à la mauvaise gestion du temps de parole.
mr president, the agreement of 6 june with the un agencies on the repatriation of some of the rohingya who fled from myanmar into bangladesh will not lead to a significant number of safe returns. meanwhile, despite the very commendable efforts of bangladesh, hundreds of thousands of people, including children, will continue to suffer. most worryingly, just as the monsoon rains are coming, thousands of babies conceived in rape are expected to be born soon in the camps. sexual violence was an integral tool of the burmese military in its effort to inflict terror on the rohingyas. months after the height of the burmese army’s atrocities, the suffering of these women continues, as they have to face not just a lack of access to healthcare services in the camps, but also exclusion from their deeply conservative families. the absolute priority is to save lives and to shelter these women and babies from the rains.
madam president, i want to ask mr koch why he voted in favour in the committee.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, i would like to thank ms grossetête for her thanks. the european defence industrial development programme (edidp) is a pilot project which strategically supports the competitiveness, innovation and efficiency of our defence industry, consolidating our strategic autonomy, and tactically bridges the research-to-development gap in security and defence capabilities, thus providing eu added value in defence through more cooperation and better spending. it also provides a solid foundation for closer coordination with other regional and international frameworks, especially nato, on capability development priorities. the edidp comes at a crucial time in international politics when both the political and military superstructures and their underlying basis in free trade are under attack. as expected, the eu is a ‘status quo’ power, in favour of maintaining the rules-based old world order which, through peace and free trade, has provided for our security and prosperity. and the edidp, complementing all the other measures taken or envisaged in the field of security and defence, is a major tool helping the eu to do that.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very happy to see the outcome of our negotiations on the european defence industrial development programme. i think that while facing new and evolving threats the european union must first, of course, ensure its strategic autonomy, must become a security provider, but at the same time we must make sure that the european defence industry remains innovative and remains competitive. today the eu defence market is, as we all know, fragmented. there are a lot of inefficiencies, there is a lot of duplication in the way that public money is spent. the european defence industrial development programme is one part of the european defence fund launched by the commission in june last year. we’ve prepared and we’ve been working on two windows of the programme: the research and capability windows. the research window is already well on track with the pilot projects and the preparatory action. together with our edidp they mark really a new era in european defence, the edidp with eur 500 million for the last two years of this budgetary perspective. so i would like to thank parliament very much for its support for those two instruments because, as we all know, all three institutions made concessions to reach agreement. i also want very wholeheartedly to thank the two rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs; they were working very hard in order to reach their agreement at a really record pace. this was a huge effort for all of us and we all know it was not a very easy process. for everyone, of course, there were some points that didn’t make it through the negotiations and that is why we have foreseen a number of declarations that will have to be appended in the record of tomorrow’s session. i mean especially the commission’s declaration on the list of priorities for the adoption of the work programme, on the selection of experts for the evaluation of proposals, and on the intention of the commission to manage directly the programme. overall i certainly believe that the compromise is a very good and balanced text. it is balanced, inclusive again, and it will truly help the eu defence industry to cooperate more and more efficiently. i am pleased that the final outcome upheld most of the proposals from the commission and, of course, even improved on some of them. on a few specific points: the budget. the final agreement providing for 60% of the budget to come from redeployment of existing programmes and 40% from the margins is, i think, a good and, once again, balanced one. as these redeployments have not yet been earmarked for specific purposes, we are confident that this will not affect the good implementation of their respective programmes. additionally, the programme provides strict conditions for the participation of companies based in the eu but not under eu effective control, and for cooperation with companies from outside the eu. it also provides conditions to ensure that intellectual property rights and eu added value will remain within the european union. we will also introduce conditions for subcontractors’ participation. the european defence fund, as was said before, is not a protectionist tool; we just want to make sure through this programme that the security interests of the eu and the security interests of its member states are preserved. a firm obligation not to fund actions related to products prohibited by international law was added and a specific reference has been made to defence products designed to carry out level strikes without human control. on governance: the regulation provides a very well defined and framed list of categories of capabilities that the work programme should include. we will define the work programme, of course, with the limits of our competitors and, as i said before, the commission intends to implement the programme directly. finally, as i stressed when presenting our proposal to you in october last year, the programme is not only – definitely not – for the big companies and for the big member states. i am very happy to see that the inclusive character of the original proposal was not only maintained but even strengthened in the final proposal. the programme promotes the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises from different member states in the defence supply chain and provides some bonuses for cross-border smes and cross-border mid-caps. it is open to participation by beneficiaries from all member states. now, the most important thing is to be ready by january 2019. i hope that the work programme can be adopted right after this summer break, so that we can launch the call for proposals immediately afterwards. with the edidp we tested our capacity to discuss and to agree at european level between different institutions on defence matters, but the real test of course is now. we need concrete and ambitious projects and this is work that is ongoing right now. the edidp also paves the way to the fully-fledged european defence fund that we just proposed for the next budget, with eur 13 billion in financing. this new programme is, of course, again building on the results of the agreement reached on the edidp. so i count on parliament and i count on the council to be able to agree on the future european defence fund in the same spirit of compromise in finding solutions and at the same pace as happened with the edidp. thank you very much for your work.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i thank mrs grossetête for this excellent report and all those who worked on it. it is certainly regrettable that after two world wars we in europe have to increase spending on the defence industry, but we have no choice, because the security of each member state and of the european union must come first. and if we have no choice, then we have to try to do everything we can to increase the efficiency of the spending we do on the defense industry. i particularly appreciate the emphasis in the report on cooperation between member states, because economies of scale are as important a law in the defence industry as in any other industry and unfortunately, as the commissioner said, in this industry we have an incredible fragmentation, we have a multitude of types of weapons used by member states and this will have to be made more efficient. i also very much appreciate that the report focuses on the incentives for smes to participate in this programme.
madam president, madam commissioner, i will begin by saying that i want and try to look at this report very objectively. i do not think anyone wants war, but the european union must strengthen its autonomy in the field of defence in order to guarantee the union's freedom of action on the world stage. we have to be very realistic. the defence industry in the european union needs to be globally competitive and this is what this regulation is actually trying to do. the defence industry must be based on cooperation, innovation and research, and i am certainly pleased that this regulation, with the proposals from my colleagues, in addition to the commission's proposal, includes smes and crossborder cooperation. after all, it creates some jobs and i am interested in producing in europe, in reindustrialising the european union - safe, and civil - but also having this defence industry, instead of being dependent on imports, as we are in so many other areas.
the reporter. commissioner, madam president, i would like to thank all the teams that have worked on this dossier, starting with eurostat, the two presidencies the estonian and the bulgarian, the shadow rapporteurs who have accompanied me throughout the dossier and, last but not least, my predecessor, the current prime minister of romania, mrs viorica dancila, who started this dossier. the commission's initial proposal for a new regulation on integrated european farm statistics was based on the idea of simplifying data collection, reducing costs and administrative burdens, but also maintaining a flexible framework that can last and adapt over time. we fully share these objectives, which have been the subject of our work and negotiations to find the balance between costs and flexibility. the process of collecting statistical data, especially on farm structure, is clearly influencing decisions on future agricultural reforms, decisions that ultimately affect the farmer. the first pillar of this regulation is the agricultural census to be conducted in 2020, and efforts have focused on reducing administrative burdens and pressure on farmers and, where possible, complementing data from other existing databases. but our main concern was to have a true picture of the whole of european agriculture, from small farms to the largest structures. the second pillar is represented by statistical modules at regular intervals on different topics such as agricultural labour, agricultural equipment, irrigation. here we have taken care to maintain a flexible framework, which allows european statistics to evolve over time, but also to allow a reasonable number of variables to be taken into account. the third pillar is the option to carry out ad-hoc agricultural research. this was probably the most difficult part of the negotiations. first, the interinstitutional balance between delegated and implementing acts had to be found. secondly, it was necessary to set a limit on the maximum number of variables. i know some of you would like to have statistical information on various subjects. some could not technically be included in this file as they related to production statistics. others represented national or local special cases that are already covered by national statistics. we regret that some animals and in particular horses could not be included in this census. an amendment has been tabled in the european parliament to include horses in census data. unfortunately, it did not obtain the required majority in the expert committee. in addition, some countries no longer consider horses as farm animals and we risk having a wrong picture of the number of horses in different countries. for other animals, such as quails or buffaloes, the numbers are too small and too localized and the statistical analysis would not have been conclusive. i recall that for horses and buffaloes, their numbers can be deducted from the national zootechnical registers. firstly, i think we have reached a good agreement which respects the mandate of parliament, guarantees the necessary flexibility for eurostat but at the same time does not expose the national statistical institutes to unforeseen administrative and financial costs. the council agreed to withdraw the amendments concerning derogations from the personal data protection regulation (gdpr) which aimed to create specific derogations for statistics from this regulation. thank you to the board for the understanding we've had. it would probably have been impossible for parliament to reach an agreement if these amendments had not been withdrawn by the council.
mr president, commissioner, i have said from the outset that i support this report and i am of the opinion that statistics are necessary in order to be able to take a correct decision. we are talking about the cap, we are talking about the common agricultural policy, and it is obvious that we need statistics to make a good decision. i congratulate the rapporteurs who have worked and i think that the improved form of the commission proposal, with the proposals of my colleagues in the european parliament, shows that we have taken a step forward. we'll know the situation of the farms, the situation of the new farms that are coming up, but, of course, i also stress the idea that the methodology, the data collection, the statistics that we need do not add very high costs, especially for the new farmers, for the young farmers and for the farmers who are starting out. but it's important that we don't treat this as, as a colleague said, spying. if we start from the idea that we have an internal market, if we have a common agricultural policy, we cannot talk about espionage, we can talk about knowledge.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken. as you may have noticed, even a highly technical dossier can give rise to interesting debates. as i said in the introduction, i believe that statistics are an essential source of information and feed into public debate on a daily basis, so they must be as accurate as possible. we all want to have information on different aspects of the agricultural sector, but the costs, in some cases, can be exorbitant for information that, with modern techniques, can be fairly accurate approximations. i would like to reiterate that this regulation concerns the factors of production in european agriculture and not production itself. there is a separate european regulation which organises production statistics and, as i understand from the discussions i have had at the european commission, this regulation is also to be revised. i am convinced that the agreement we have reached is a good one and will allow agricultural statistics to evolve for at least the next ten years, if not even longer, which is why the balance between predictability and flexibility is essential. so i invite you, tomorrow, to support this agreement by your vote. once again, i would like to thank everyone who has worked on this dossier and who has spoken today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the report we are discussing today is the result of hard work, compromise and openness towards the need not only to acknowledge, but also to take action in ensuring the protection of the rights of indigenous people. i am pleased to see that we have reached an agreement on so many fundamental actualities related to indigenous peoples: the impact of their lifestyle on environmental sustainability, the preservation of cultural diversity, traditions and languages, the conservation of ecosystems and the fight against deforestation, among many others. but, aside from that, today’s report takes a stance and calls for commitments at eu level, through various existing and potentially new mechanisms, to spare no effort in ensuring that indigenous communities are heard, appreciated and supported in their struggles and endeavours. we speak about mechanisms to support human rights defenders working with indigenous people, coherence between the eu’s trade, development and investment policies and their impact on the rights of indigenous people, the inclusion of these communities when elaborating strategies for tackling climate change, and the development of an eu action plan on responsible business conduct to address the implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights. i would like specifically to thank the rapporteur for his openness and i hope that we will all vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i am very pleased that we are debating today the respect for the human rights of indigenous peoples in the world, because it is true, as was said in our debates before this, that the situation of these rights is worse today than it was a decade ago and therefore, in this sense, there is urgency. this is all the more so as, as the report also mentions, today it is estimated that indigenous peoples represent some 5% of the total world population. i am therefore, like my political group, in favour of firm action to safeguard the rights of these indigenous peoples and to ensure that their traditions and ways of life are preserved. what i think is essential, however, and which has been - i think - slightly overlooked in the report, is the importance of concerted action at international level. today, indigenous peoples live in more than 70 countries. it seems to me that individual measures by the european union alone would not solve the many violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. that is why i believe that our efforts should focus primarily on building a genuine international coalition to promote the rights and cultural traditions of indigenous peoples, because i am not sure that unilaterally imposing sanctions at this stage would be likely to improve anything in the lives of these indigenous peoples. so let 's make this coalition ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, according to the un, indigenous people around the world today are facing greater violation of their rights than was the case 10 years ago. across the world, the collective and individual rights of indigenous peoples are being violated through discrimination, violence, forced expropriations, land grabbing and evictions. it is therefore welcome that the report calls on the eu and the member states to adopt all necessary measures for the full recognition and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples and for their prior and informed consultation on all issues affecting them. however, one of the most useful things the eu could do to help the situation of indigenous people is to lead by example: europe’s autochthonous minorities also suffer from discrimination and denial of rights, and some of them from social exclusion. as a reminder, in the case of my minority, 28 years after the fall of communism and 11 years after eu accession, properties grabbed by the former regime still have not been restituted to their owners, and some that have been restituted are now being renationalised by the state.
madam president, every seven seconds there is a girl under 15 years old getting married in the world, often to a man much older than herself. early and forced marriages seriously violate human rights and, often, girls’ rights to education, increase the likelihood of domestic violence and have serious consequences on the sexual and reproductive health of women and girls. early and forced marriages exist in both third countries and within the eu. some member states have laws allowing children younger than 18 to marry under certain circumstances. in the current refugee crisis, it happens along the migration routes and in refugee camps. we should make legislative efforts to end early and forced marriages, at both eu and member state level. therefore all member states should accelerate the ratification of the istanbul convention and see that it is fully implemented without delay.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank everyone for preparing this report and for the opportunity to engage in this important debate. climate diplomacy encompasses many aspects which we have touched on in this discussion – implementation and ambition under the paris agreement, migration, climate security, climate finance and, last but not least, our domestic commitments and actions here in the european union. there was a direct question from mr leinen related to the paris agreement and trade agreements, and i understand that discussions are ongoing in the council and at dg level on the complex question of potentially including the paris agreement as an essential element in the political process of the european union’s international agreements. the european union has already committed to the promotion of the paris agreement in its bilateral relations, and in trade relations in particular we have included an obligation to implement effectively the paris agreement in our more recentagreements. but elevating the importance of the paris agreement further, putting it on a par with human rights, would also send a strong signal that the european union’s international agreements, including trade agreements, are tools to help save globalisation, not only in economic terms, but also through protecting and promoting european union values. however, it is a step that should not be taken lightly. it needs to be done in a manner that is operational in practice, and the paris agreement is designed to be facilitative, non-intrusive, non-punitive and respectful of national sovereignty. we need to keep this in mind, but the commission is ready to act as a facilitator in the discussions and to provide any information that could usefully inform this analysis. i will conclude by saying that i count on the commitment of this parliament and its support, and i look forward to further discussions as we prepare for cop 24.
in writing. the effects of climate change are known to increasingly affect various aspects of human life, as well as development opportunities, the geopolitical order and global stability. this welcome own-initiative report underlines the importance of climate diplomacy for the eu, a form of foreign policy involving third country governments and global non-governmental actors, to promote the fight against climate change and carbon emissions. taking into account the eu's international leadership on climate change and its commitments to implement sustainable development strategies and to comply with the paris agreement, the report calls for a coherent and coordinated approach to eu climate diplomacy, improvements to its structure, additional financial and human resources, and the integration of the climate diplomacy dimension into the eu's external relations. we also agree that, given the importance of the impact of climate change on human life, peace and stability, climate action is a matter of improving global security and living conditions and that the eu should be more proactive in building alliances to implement the paris agreement.
member of the commission. – madam president, today’s discussion shows the strong synergies and common ground between the european parliament report and the european union priorities for the united nations and the 73rd united nations general assembly, adopted at the foreign affairs council on 25 june. in the coming year the european union will focus on peace and conflict prevention, a common positive agenda with the promotion and protection of human rights at the heart of multilateralism, and on expanding global engagement on issues such as climate action, the environment, migration, counterterrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. these are set priorities and i see in the draft european parliament recommendation the same narrative and key priorities. in the year ahead of us we need to capitalise on this common agenda in our changing global landscape. the european union will strive for a strong united nations as the bedrock of the multilateral rules-based order. this will be a decisive year for un reform, and the european union is a strong supporter of the united nations secretary-general’s ambitious reform agenda. the european union has a strategic interest in seeing reforms unfold this year and we will vigorously support their implementation. i also want to say that i am pleased to see un reform as a point in parliament’s report for the first time. enhanced cooperation with the african union (au) is key. the ground-breaking joint trilateral au-eu-united nations work on libyan migration, aims to pave the way for enhanced cooperation on the wider peace and security agenda. the support being provided to the g5 sahel joint force is a key example of the importance of investing in global security partnerships, and we are happy to see parliament’s report welcoming trilateral cooperation as a strong means of strengthening multilateralism. we see the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights as an opportunity to advance this work at a time of negative threats. we both say that human rights are at the heart of multilateralism. looking ahead, european union unity is essential in order to fortify multilateralism and the current strong presence of european union member states at the un security council contributes to positive forward momentum. a lot can be achieved through this european union presence. let me be more specific on our three interlinked priorities. on peace and conflict prevention the european union will pursue an integrated approach, deploying all its tools and policies in support of prevention. meaningful participation by women and youth in all aspects of peace and conflict prevention is critical to success, including in peace processes. mediation is also a crucial tool to foster peace. in the coming year the european union will further enhance cooperation with the un on mediation and will step up efforts to carry out joint mediation actions, including with the au and other partners. the european union supports efforts to improve the performance of peace-keeping in order to protect populations better. in this respect, the european union supports the un action for peacekeeping initiatives. this will focus on prevention and calls for an integrated approach. peace and security are indivisible from sustainable development and human rights. on our common positive agenda this year, marking the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, the european union strongly supports the pledge by the un secretary-general to move forwards on the human rights agenda, particularly at a time when there have been serious negative trends around the world in human rights. the 2030 agenda is our joint blueprint for action in the years ahead, across all the pillars of the united nations. the european union sees the sustainable development goals as an extraordinary opportunity to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development in its three dimensions – economic, societal and environmental. the eu-un spotlight initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls, launched in 2017, illustrates an innovative, joined-up approach. this initiative also reaffirms the european union’s resolute and unwavering commitment to gender equality and women’s and girls’ empowerment – a common eu- un imperative. finally, on the issue of expanding our global engagement, the coming year will be crucial to accelerating climate action and operationalising the landmark paris agreement. together with china and canada, the european union organised the 2018 ministerial on climate action, renewing global momentum towards the effective implementation of the paris agreement. with regard to migration, the european union and its member states are proactively engaged in the united nations processes shaping the .. migration response firmly on the un agenda. the european union will continue to intensify its efforts to strengthen the respect for international humanitarian law, as well as refugee law and international human rights law. ... full, prompt, impartial and effective investigation in cases of violations. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role and my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr freund, and for his support in keeping these important issues high on the international agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, as usual, we will contribute to the definition of a european union position for the next session of the united nations general assembly. traditionally, this exercise has been quite consensual, because we are all committed here to defending multilateralism and to building a global legal order that reflects the values we defend in europe. cooperation with the united nations is also of paramount importance in responding to the challenges we face, whether it is the increase in conflict, terrorism, migration, climate change or the implementation of the 2030 agenda. i am also pleased that, thanks to my amendments, a chapter on development has been introduced into the text, mentioning in particular the coherence of policies for development. i regret, however, that this year a number of issues that divide us are reflected in the text we are voting on, in particular paragraphs 1 (x) on western sahara and 1 (abm) on the recognition of a protection status for climate refugees. the epp considers the wording of both paragraphs unacceptable and will not be able to support the text if it is retained. it would be a pity to go so far, since the messages conveyed in the other points of the recommendation would be weakened.
mr president, the right to freedom of expression and the right to choose and to form political associations are among the core values of the democratic world and therefore of the european union. in recent years, there has been a resurgence of extremist and intolerant speech and behaviour. it manifests itself in various forms, including aggressive campaigns against those with other options or even violent actions. sadly, we are beginning to see more and more of this kind of intolerance. various groups, sometimes encouraged by the political level, question, through their actions and messages, the very foundations of democracy, which are the free vote and the right of everyone to have their own choice. recently, i myself was the victim of an act of aggression by supporters of a political party in romania. i believe that we in the european parliament must punish extremist deviations wherever they occur, and that is why i call for tolerance, respect for political opinions, debate and openness. these are the defining elements of democratic dialogue. it is our duty as politicians attached to democratic values to convey that the main instrument for exercising democracy is the free vote and that nothing excuses acts of intolerance and violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the foundations of our democratic societies are universal suffrage and respect for the law, in particular the constitution and the decisions of the constitutional court. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in my country, romania, with the help of some european political forces, attempts are being made to ignore both the result of the vote and the constitution. today marks 25 days since the constitutional court ruled that romania's president, klaus iohannis, must issue a decree to dismiss the head of the dna, laura codruța kövesi, and he refuses. it is unacceptable for the president of a member state of the european union to disregard the decision of the highest court of justice in the state. perhaps it would be appropriate for the members of the epp, a political group to which klaus iohannis belongs, to explain that in a genuine democracy, politicianship and politics only go as far as the constitution and the decisions of the constitutional court. otherwise, democracy turns into anarchy.
madam president, mr president juncker, mr chancellor, i congratulate you on taking over the presidency. sure, i know your country very well. you have a beautiful country. i love austria that does not mean that and the current government. commissioner, you talk about creating bridges. you talked about needing to protect. but how do you protect, when you have simply stated, you have stated that workers in your country, romanians, are not entitled to child benefits like everyone else? it's discrimination. you want to defend practicing a nationalism or what? of course i would like romania, when it takes over from you, to be able to carry on with some things related to a united europe, i.e. the equal treatment of citizens, a schengen area in which my country and bulgaria are included. and no more fencing, mr. chancellor! i'm not going to let you do that. you started off wrong. you are young, the youngest leader and you should correct yourself in terms of the treatment of european citizens.
in writing. – on 1 july austria assumed the six-month presidency of the council of the european union for the third time. welcoming austria’s priorities on building a more streamlined, united and focused europe, i would like to underline how important it is to increase cooperation with all eu member states and institutions. at the heart of europe, austria plays the role of an essential bridge—builder in the eu, and at this delicate time, as we are confronted with challenges that are global in nature and scale, such as a lack of resources, climate change and environmental deterioration, massive migration, the fight against poverty, and terrorism, we require a joint multilateral solution. taking into account the need to reduce irregular migration and increase eu citizensʼ security, we hope that, during the austrian presidency, the eu is going to incorporate its eastern border, including romania and bulgaria, into the schengen area. therefore, i am pleased to see that the presidency plans to focus on the fight against illegal migration, securing prosperity and competitiveness through digitalisation and stability in the neighbourhood. i express my confidence that the austrian presidency will strengthen the social dimension of the eu, taking decisions for the good of citizens.
mr tusk, the last european council ended with optimistic statements from all delegations and from all sides. it is a rare thing, and it is to be welcomed! on the other hand, the fact that, according to the council, there were tensions at the german leadership level suggests that general solutions may run counter to local interests. i want to point out two problems. with refugees, as i have always argued, the solution is massive european investment in the countries of origin. wars and migrations start from lack of resources. on the other hand, even if i support the hard line against illegal migrants, i consider the idea of setting up 'trier' camps or centres in third countries to be deeply immoral. i categorically reject such a solution! the second problem is that this council should have made substantial progress on the reform of the european union. the refugees were an emergency, agreed! but in this way, we are in the 'the union is not reforming because it has serious problems' paradigm. do you not think that the union is in serious trouble precisely because it is not reforming?
mr president, commissioner, i have already said to you that these proposals should not have been made. i believe that any appeal to the court of justice of the european union would easily dismiss them, because these proposals go against some fundamental elements of the european union: the free movement of capital, services, labour. i've heard about social dumping here. i think your proposal makes protectionism for certain categories. i've heard of second-rate, first-rate drivers. yes, there will be protected drivers from certain states first-rate and unprotected drivers from the market from other states second-rate drivers. there will be price increases, because the beneficiaries will suffer, because those who will no longer have competition, the transport companies, will raise prices. so there will be bureaucracy. a driver will be paid seven or eight salaries if he goes from portugal to lithuania and i'm very curious if the driver from germany, when he passes through romania, will be paid with the salary from romania. the only reason i support the tran compromises, which are good, is to eliminate the abuses that are being made at the moment by some national administrations. so let's vote on the compromises in the tran committee!
indeed, the reality is always more complex.
ladies and gentlemen, the mobility package raises legitimate questions about the impact on the european transport market. but as legislators, we have a responsibility to create legislation that protects the interests of the whole bloc, not just the western states. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the conditions for the granting of the aid are met. including international transport, a hypermobile sector, under the posting of workers directive will create administrative and economic burdens that would lead to the bankruptcy of several companies in the east. hundreds of thousands of jobs will be lost. as regards cabotage, i believe that reducing cabotage times will lead to market distortion in favour of western companies, which is unacceptable. it is essential to respect rest periods, but i do not think we should impose the location where drivers rest or the obligation to return the truck, which is not a human resource, three weeks home. but i support a european road transport agency.
mr president, commissioner, i want to say that the rapporteurs of the tran committee have done a very good job and i want to join my colleague here who said not to vandalize the cabotage. i say: let's not vandalize this tran package, which still covers the priorities of both parties (if we have to talk about two parties)! this is an attempt to mislead some colleagues by suggesting that the tran model or the tran compromise is one that allows these illegal practices, which were discussed. completely wrong, dear colleagues. they also say that there are companies that practice low wages, that don't protect their employees. these companies are exactly from western europe and they practice these methods through subsidiaries in us, in the peripheral countries. we have to attack them and we have to protect those in smes who are trying to comply with the current legislation. remember, my dear colleagues, we are all in europe and we do not need more borders, we need fewer borders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although we are few in number here, i want to say this: i am not satisfied with the compromises we have reached at tran, but the solution we can have now is to go with the whole package. what does it mean to go with one report? it's a disaster, and believe me. let's not be populist anymore! we all think about the workers, but let's think about the long term! what does it mean to have a multi-state corporation go bankrupt? what does the bankruptcy of smes mean? lack of jobs. and what happens to those drivers? they'll be employed by the post office and paid just as badly as they are now, yes? so let's not be the moral wolf anymore! i propose that we vote on this package tomorrow or else we reject it in bloc and start over, commissioner. we cannot fragment the market, we cannot have competition and competition, we cannot ignore subsidiarity. wages are subsidiary. dumping is what western companies do when they hire from the east and they sit there and pay eastern salaries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 4 july 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the migration crisis and the humanitarian situation in and at the borders of venezuela (2018/2770 ((rsp)).
mr president, there is a need for clear, fair and enforceable european rules on transport. the practice of administrative bullying of international transport companies in some member states has already shown this. but these rules should primarily guarantee fair competition across the entire single market and not aim to protect only geographical vested interests. the inclusion of international transport under the remit of the posted workers directive is indefensible on any logical, administrative, enforcement, political or economic grounds. the only way this would make sense is if the goal was to de facto eliminate peripheral countries from the european transport market at all costs, regardless of whether in the process, as we heard, smes create monopolies, decrease the competitiveness of our industries or increase the prices for our consumers. cherry picking and selectively applying the basic rules of the single market under the cover of simplistic slogans is very wrong and is not the way forward in the context of the current wave of international populist protectionism.
madam president, we must certainly congratulate all those who have contributed over the years to the economic recovery of greece, but at the same time we must stress that it is the greek people who have ultimately borne the brunt of this recovery. and if we're talking about greece doing better today, we need to learn from the lessons that greece has learned over time -- and that includes the european institutions that are engaged in this process. first, for any country with a large debt, there is no way out except the reforms that need to be made and the creditors' understanding to allow the time for those reforms to bear fruit. secondly, in this recovery process, there must always be the understanding, the necessary balance between the real capacity of that country to make the reforms and the service of the public debt. and from this point of view, we have to recognize that greece -- if you remember that very belligerent finance minister -- lost time because they didn't understand how to make the necessary reforms in time. on the other hand, the creditors did not understand that they had to grant the financial relief in time either. well, many countries had huge fiscal deficits, but where the fiscal deficits were rigged, hidden from the greek people, someone had to pay.
madam president, we are now discussing the conclusion of the third economic adjustment programme for greece. it has been eight years, and 450 different reforms that were discussed between the troika and greece, and what are the conclusions that we can draw now at the end of the process? firstly, we should do everything it takes to make sure that such a situation of crisis never ever occurs again in greece or in any other member state of the union. what do we have to do for this? firstly, we have to make sure that our economies reform, that they become stronger, they remain competitive, they attract private investment, that we support entrepreneurs, smes, and of course we have to keep to our budgets in order to make sure that we can react in a situation of crisis. crisis prevention is so important, because if we do not prevent a crisis, then if we enter into a crisis it’s always more difficult. crisis brings misery to people, it brings poverty, it brings unemployment, it brings bankruptcy to companies, and we have to avoid this at any price. the second message which i would like to give is that we have to make sure that the sacrifices made by the people of greece over the last eight years are not in vain. we have to make sure that the country stays on the right track, and for this reforms have to continue. we have to make sure that education is such that children in school are equipped with the right skills to be successful on the labour markets in greece and internationally. we have to make sure that the public administration is efficient and equipped, populated with experts, not politically driven. these are things that we have to observe not only in greece but also in many other member states, but i think it’s important that we draw this conclusion in the end. and one more thing i want to say. over these eight years, we have learned that populism is never a solution. we have learned that populists don’t have solutions; they say one thing during the campaign and then we see that what they say during the campaign they either forget it afterwards or it does not work in practice. i know this is a drastic message but we have to say it: stay away from populists.
mr president, 1.4 billion people from 60 countries can enter the european union without a visa. in recent years, it has become clear that some of these people do not respect and do not respect european norms and values. that is why etias was created. it's a system that will authorize their entry into the union. in the authorisation process, the etias system will determine whether the presence of the person on our territory constitutes a danger to the safety of citizens, to health or whether it is illegal migration of course, and whether it is a danger to the state of legality and not criminals coming to us. the etias shall check each application against european databases containing information on the movement of different persons into and out of the european union. it will also have access to and work with european agencies precisely to help identify people wanted, to be arrested for extradition, for example, or missing people, minors we are looking for and are victims of human trafficking or people who are evading judicial proceedings. i would make one more mention. if there are queues at the borders, as we heard - yes, there are in some countries - then it's because those countries haven't bought the scanners that make the flow of the entry or exit of a country fluid and that check the databases on a single interface all this information. then all is well. if we stick with the counters, then they won't work well.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the report as it improves the proposal to create a european travel information and authorisation system (etias), mimicking the electronic system for travel authorisation (esta) system in the united states. the system will be used to determine whether travellers from visa—free countries will be allowed to enter the territory of the european union. while europol does not belong to the schengen acquis and whereas etias will fully belong to it, i welcome that europol is being strengthened by extending its tasks, especially the responsibility to develop and host the etias watch list. i support the call for the management board, after consulting the european data protection supervisor (edps), to adopt guidelines further specifying the procedure for the processing of information for the purpose of the etias watch list. i also share the opinion that it is important to increase institutional cooperation by ensuring that europol shares information with etias as regards any terrorist offences and ensuring direct consultation through the etias national unit of the member states responsible in cases falling under europol’s mandate. this is very important when it comes to fighting terrorism.
in writing. – security has been a constant theme on the eu’s agenda within the last years and that is why concrete actions have to be taken in this sense. in the light of the recent challenges that the eu is currently facing, especially in terms of migration, it is clear that there is a need for a new approach regarding border security. the european travel information and authorization system – a completely electronic system – will allow and keep track of visitors from countries who do not need a visa to enter schengen. etias will undergo a detailed security check of each applicant to determine whether they could be allowed to enter any schengen country. thus, the travel authorisation system will gather, keep track of and update necessary information regarding visitors, to determine whether it is safe for them to enter schengen countries. i fully support the proposal and i am convinced that implementing etias is another important step in protecting eu’s external borders. moreover, i consider that this system is in the best interest of european citizens, while maintaining a balance between their safety and protection of their rights and freedom of movement.
in recent years, the number of people with disabilities in the european parliament and national parliaments has increased. these were due to their integration into different political parties or their nomination by one of the parties as independents. it is a welcome development that the various parties, irrespective of their political or ideological affiliation, are seeking to position disabled people, by providing opportunities for citizens with special needs to be represented and for these needs to be reflected in party programmes in an increasing number of cases. i hope that the european commission will also be able to propose measures to support people with disabilities in overcoming the obstacles to voting. however, to make the issue more than a symbolic political issue, more measures are needed to make life easier for people with disabilities. such a measure at european level could be, for example, the mutual recognition of disability classifications. thank you, sir.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate you for making this statement and for saying that we need to have examples of good practice to share. the integration of disabled people is ultimately a matter for everyone, for all member states. we're not going without regulation. sure, we have the un convention. we have the constitutions of the member states. the problem is the application. i'm a man who worked with the association of disabled persons. they are responsible people, often more civically engaged than other people, and it's absolutely unfair and immoral to put a barrier in their way. i think it's really important to see how we can simplify participation because, very often, because of inadequate infrastructure, people can't participate. there was talk of guardianship. you may be thinking, commissioner, of amending this regulation too, because i have met and had concrete discussions with people with disabilities who are in care, and i have said this many times: they are practically enslaved. they arrogate rights over their lives, not letting them and not allowing them to participate in civic life. i hope we have a fair participation of people with disabilities.
madam president, my group has proposed that today's debate on the political crisis of proportions that the republic of moldova is going through after the abusive cancellation of the elections in chisinau. this abuse weakens a rule of law that was, and is, very fragile. (the president interrupts the speaker to announce that there are problems with the translation) moldovan democracy is in tatters. i am glad to see that the political groups, for the most part, have supported the epp initiative and, as the joint resolution we are voting on today shows, have understood the gravity of the situation. unfortunately, when i warned last year that great things were happening in moldova, i was ignored. the socialist group has managed by various maneuvers to hide the reality of the republic of moldova here in strasbourg or in brussels. behind these maneuvers is the social democratic party of bucharest, which plays the games of the oligarch plahotniuc. it is unquestionable that plahotniuc and his party are the authors of the decision to cancel the local elections held in chisinau. the decision was not made by the court, but by the oligarch. the cancellation of the elections shows us, once again, that the state is being taken over by a person and that in chisinau, the judiciary is now being used to settle political disputes. this is really serious. moldova is a state captured by an oligarch, who does not want his business and that of his clan in chisinau to be endangered by the coming to the mayor's office of andrei nastase. năstase, the elected mayor who is with us today in the official gallery, is one of the leaders of the pro-european opposition, who has made the fight against corruption and oligarchy a political objective. the citizens supported him, the oligarch blocked him. in this context, i denounce, on behalf of the epp group, the annulment of the results of the chisinau elections, which was done in an opaque manner and for purely political reasons. i express my solidarity with all citizens of the capital of the republic of moldova, who took to the streets in large numbers to defend their vote. it's good to keep doing it, to show that the will of the people cannot be trampled. we have to do something. the events have shown us once again that the preconditions for granting macro-financial assistance are far from being met. therefore, any such payment to the republic of moldova should be suspended. furthermore, i also demand the cessation of european support for the state budget. i believe that no more euros should be sent to chisinau until the following conditions are met: validation of local elections in chisinau, organization of credible parliamentary elections, investigation of the bank fraud known as the 'billion robbery' and return to the rule of law and start of credible reforms in the field of justice.
on behalf of the epp group. the decision to cancel the democratic elections in chisinau destroys the very foundation of the relationship between the republic of moldova and the european union. i want moldova to come to europe, along with romania and other civilized countries, but the authorities have taken the republic of moldova to emergency situations, along with burundi and somalia. today, the overwhelming majority of the european parliament will adopt a decision by which we say: we cannot give the chisinau authorities 100 million in macro-financial assistance. this decision means that there is zero trust in the authorities in chisinau. europe will not pretend that things are going well in the republic of moldova. we will say it like it is, that is to say: the authorities in chisinau are an obstacle to the european union's desire to help the citizens of the republic of moldova. the resolution we are going to adopt today is a very critical one. never in recent years has the situation in the republic of moldova been so serious, and europe sees and knows this. we will speak the truth and stand with the citizens. that's why i say to the people who are demonstrating for european values, very clearly: we see you. we're with you. do not be afraid. you're not alone. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). ) ]
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. you said, dear colleague, mr mureșan, that we should stand with the citizens of the republic of moldova. but how can we stand with the citizens of the republic of moldova, when we will vote that these 100 million do not reach the republic of moldova? the republic of moldova shall ensure that the implementation of the law on the protection of personal data is ensured in accordance with the law on the protection of personal data. they are for the citizens of the republic of moldova and if they really - and this is the truth - are part of the history, ethnicity, in all respects, culture, of southeast europe, we must support the citizens of the republic of moldova first. don't you think?
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i am very pleased to speak for another 30 seconds about the citizens of the republic of moldova. the citizens of the republic of moldova want european values, they want democracy, they want free elections, that's why they are taking to the streets. they'll stand by. they want a justice that does justice and they see that these authorities are not doing what the citizens of the republic of moldova expect: they are not reforming the republic of moldova, they are not improving the roads, they are not improving the schools, they are not improving the hospitals. so people - and if you talk to people, you know, mr. frunzulica - people say very clearly: put pressure on this government to finally do what we expect. the macro-financial assistance shall be conditional. the money will come when the conditions are met.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam high representative, i want to be clear: the annulment of the elections in chisinau, confirmed by three courts in the republic of moldova, is a deeply worrying case of disregard for the will of the electorate and casts an undeserved shadow on democratic developments in that country. but to say without evidence, like the ppe, that the decision was the result of political intervention in the judiciary and, above all, to ask the politicians to intervene and change the court's decision is contrary to the rule of law. the government immediately offered to amend the legislation by september, to guarantee that the upcoming parliamentary elections will be free, democratic and transparent. now the epp is proposing to block european funding for this country, risking playing into the hands of dodon and russia. i address, finally, the opposition and the majority in chisinau. don't set fire to the country! because after the parliamentary elections, you will have to build together a pro-european coalition government.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, law is the art of good and fairness, the romans said, and political science tells us that the popular vote is the foundation of a democracy and the law is the guarantor of that foundation. unfortunately, the moldovan justice system violated the popular will expressed by the vote, misinterpreting the electoral law and cancelling the vote of the population of chisinau. neither goodness nor fairness was found in the court decisions, and the justice system was simply playing political games. andrei nastase, the clear winner of the chisinau election, did what we all do on election day: we invite people to exercise their civic right to vote. nastase didn't mention who to vote for. this is not campaign or electoral propaganda, which is referred to as electoral agitation in the moldovan law. in fact, frightened by the opposition's victory, the real power in moldova, namely vladimir plahotniuc and his cronies, relied on a reliable ally: the controlled judiciary. and it has resorted to absurd interpretations for one purpose: to override the popular will. a political power and a judiciary that deeply despise its own people the european union cannot stand by and watch such a mockery of the popular vote. it is time for a firm, albeit painful, decision: the suspension of tranches from the macro-financial assistance fund until after the proper organisation of the parliamentary elections.
madam president, we are discussing moldova today because the latest developments in chișinău require our greatest attention. the non-transparent invalidation of the mayoral elections in chișinău is an issue of the gravest concern for this house and for all of those who have this country and its people close to their heart. free and fair elections are the foundation of any democracy and so is the fulfilment of all democratic electoral and constitutional procedures and fundamental democratic commitments. we have to think strategically, act rationally and acknowledge that the solution is not decoupling the moldova wagon from the eu train, or derailing it. high representative, this is the reason why a decision on our part to suspend budget support – i am not referring to the macro—financial assistance – would be as wrong as invalidating the elections, and would simply add one mistake on top of another.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, colleague, i think we can all agree that this was an abuse of power. everyone agrees that the election should not have been invalidated. but do you think we can correct a mistake made towards the candidate of nasas - whom i respect and knows, that i met during the campaign with him - with another injustice? cut the funding? should we confuse citizens with party leaders? we must give dodon a chance to boast: look what europe has done to you and win another mandate. do you not think that we should not suspend the funds, but should monitor how the rule of law is applied in the republic of moldova?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr štětina, dear colleague, what do you think about the fact that in moldova we have a puppet government controlled by the oligarch plahotniuc, just like in a member state where the government in bucharest is run by a puppet, mrs. dancila, controlled by liviu dragnea, sentenced to prison twice? how do you feel about this situation?
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot play with the fate of states. we cannot play games with a country that has chosen a pro-european path. it's our chance now. yes, i agree with a resolution, but not with vague wording, to introduce even new fake news here or ambiguities. what does it mean to write in a resolution, in point 1, that there are dubious things? we have to be very precise and specific when we propose something to the government. once again, i agree that they should not have been cancelled, but we cannot cut off this financial assistance to the citizens. are we thinking of the citizens of the republic of moldova or are we thinking of a particular person? that is why i will not vote for this resolution and please understand that by voting for the resolution, we are actually turning the path of the republic of moldova from europe to russia.
mr. president, what has happened in the republic of moldova by invalidating the elections for the mayor of chisinau is unacceptable, even for a democracy in the making. vox populi, vox dei or "the will of the people is the will of god". unfortunately, the pro-russian forces are unable to accept that andrei nastase was the people's choice, invalidating the election for non-existent reasons. i therefore call on all european institutions - the european commission, the council and the european parliament - to continue to intervene immediately, within the limits of their legal powers, so that the will of the people is respected in the republic of moldova. the european union needs a strong republic of moldova, where fundamental human rights and freedoms are respected. its european path must not be interrupted by those who do not understand how to respect democracy, with its values and principles.
mr president, the respect of moldovan citizens for european values is inversely proportional to that of the authorities who today rule the republic of moldova, who use, more recently, legislative devices as a tool against the exercise of democracy. the consequences of this action are, as usual, reflected in the economic development of the republic of moldova and in the european future of young moldovans in the country and abroad. the moldovan citizens need, more than ever, the support of the european union and we must send a very clear message that we will not tolerate this situation, in which the will of the citizens of chisinau, to elect andrei nastase as mayor, is overturned by influencing court decisions. more recently, in the context of new electoral laws, which violate the recommendations of the venice commission and the osce office, an equally clear message is needed that we must return to legislation that offers equal opportunities to all political competitors. moldova must remain on the path of european values, towards a healthy democracy, towards an independent judiciary, towards the development of the business environment.
mr president, even though so much has been achieved since the arusha agreement, i have to express deep concern regarding the existing political and human rights situation in burundi, which undermines any initiative for reconciliation, peace and justice. since april 2015, burundi has been going through acute political, human rights and humanitarian crises, which have so far led to the death of 595 persons, while another 3.6 million are in need of humanitarian assistance. therefore, i welcome the european union’s humanitarian actions in this regard and i consider that we must maintain support for the population affected. it is crucial that this aid be provided in a direct manner to those in need. violence and intimidation against political opponents, human rights defenders and ngos must end, as well as the continued degradation of media space and press freedom. i will conclude by underlining that we should step up our efforts all together.
member of the commission, in writing. – :joint statement joint statement on the discharge procedure and the date of adoption of the final eu accounts "the european parliament, the council and the commission will – in cooperation with the european court of auditors – set out a pragmatic calendar for the discharge procedure. in that context, the commission confirms that it will strive to adopt the eu consolidated annual accounts for the financial year 2017 by 30 june 2018 provided that the european court of auditors transmits all findings concerning the reliability of these eu accounts, and all consolidated entities' accounts, by 15 may 2018, and its draft annual report by 15 june 2018. the commission also confirms that it will strive to provide its replies to the european court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2017 by 15 august 2018 provided that the european court of auditors transmits its draft observations to the commission by 1 june 2018." commission unilateral statements statement in relation to article 38 publication of information on recipients and other information “the commission will support through networks with the member states the exchange of good practices as regards the publication of information on recipients of union funds implemented under shared management. the commission will take into due consideration the lessons learnt in view of preparing the next multiannual financial framework." statement of the commission on mff (single set of rules)"the commission underlines the importance of making progress in the post-2020 multiannual financial framework towards a single set of rules governing the same type of operations irrespective of the way these operations are implemented". declaration of the commission in relation to article 234(1) regarding the creation of thematic trust funds "despite the concerns expressed by the commission during negotiations, article 234(1) of the financial regulation requires that any decision to establish thematic eu trust-funds be submitted to the approval of the european parliament and the council. the commission considers that such a decision falls within the scope of article 317 tfeu, since it concerns budgetary implementation. the envisaged control by the european parliament and the council of the exercise of the commission's implementing powers is not provided for in regulation (eu) 182/2011 , and would be contrary both to article 291 tfeu and to this regulation. the commission therefore reserves its rights." statement of the commission on article 247 integrated financial and accountability reporting “the commission will strive to provide the long-term forecast of future inflows and outflows covering the next five years within the budgetary procedure, together with the amending letter to the draft budget.” statement in relation to article 266 specific provisions regarding building projects "the commission and the eeas will inform the european parliament and the council, in the context of the working document referred to in article 266, on any sale and acquisition of building, including those below the threshold set in that article." statement of the commission on future revisions of the financial regulation (impact assessment) “the commission underlines that the financial regulation provides the general rules and the toolbox for the implementation of the spending programmes. there are therefore no direct economic, environmental or social impacts that result from revisions of the legislation and that could usefully be analysed in an impact assessment. the value added of impact assessments comes when making policy choices on specific spending programmes, which have to comply with the regulatory framework provided by the financial regulation. the commission confirms that the required impact assessments will be carried out when preparing these programmes. the commission will also continue with its practice of targeted and public consultations of all stakeholders and the broader public. in addition to the results of these consultations, the commission will also indicate in the explanatory memorandum of future revisions how it has taken into account relevant evaluations of programmes implementing rules or tools provided in the financial regulation that it proposes to modify.” statement by the european commission on article 272(8)"the commission considers that, where a local action group carries out the tasks set out in points (a) to (g) of the first subparagraph of article 34(3) of regulation no. 1303/2013 as amended by this regulation, that local action group need not be designated as an intermediate body. however, in such cases, the final verification of eligibility of operations before their approval shall remain the task of the managing authority, unless that task is formally delegated to the local action group. in that case, the local action group must be designated as an intermediate body and must carry out that task under the final responsibility of the managing authority in line with article 123(6) of regulation no. 1303/2013 in the case of the funds and the emff, or in line with article 66(2) of regulation no. 1305/2013 in the case of the eafrd." statement by the european commission on article 272(14) point (a)"the commission confirms that the rules on management and control, as set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 40 of regulation no. 1303/2013 applicable at the moment of signature of the funding agreements, shall continue to apply to financial instruments referred to in article 39 of regulation no. 1303/2013 which were established by a funding agreement signed before the entry into force of this regulation. this derogation is already enshrined in the legal framework through article 40(2a) of regulation no. 1303/2013 and covers the entire life span of these instruments, including any amendments to the initial funding agreement, which may include additional contributions." statement by the european commission on article 272(16) point (a)"the commission regrets the modification of article 42(3) of regulation no. 1303/2013 as it will lead to increased amounts of the eu budget being paid into escrow accounts. any eligible expenditure not used in the programming period and paid into an escrow account implies a significant exception to cohesion policy rules as it goes against the basic principle that support from cohesion policy should be implemented and accounted for at the moment of closure of programmes. in addition, this leads to practical implementation issues related in particular to reporting and audit of amounts paid into escrow accounts." statement by the european commission on article 272(26) points (a) and (e)"the commission reiterates that, regardless of the legislative changes on provisions applicable to operations generating net revenue after their completion, the principle of sound financial management – as set out in article 33 of this regulation – requires that managing authorities make appropriate arrangements to avoid the over-financing of such operations, including where such operations are subject to state aid or generate operating cost-savings. this should particularly be the case for operations with a total eligible cost exceeding eur 1.000.000, where the beneficiary is not an sme." statement by the european commission on article 273"the state aid "de minimis" rules are laid down in regulations adopted by the commission on the basis of article 108(4) tfeu pursuant to the powers granted to it by council under article 109 tfeu (through council regulation 2015/1588). measures which do not exceed the ceiling in the de minimis regulations (in most cases eur 200.000 per undertaking over a period of three years) are deemed not to have any effect on trade between member states. they may therefore be put into effect without being caught by the prohibition of state aid laid down in article 107(1) tfeu. the de minimis rule aims at striking the right balance between simplification and avoiding competition distortions in the internal market, where the member states have varying financial capacities to subsidize their economies. the amount of de minimis aid has been set at a level below which it can safely be assumed that the aid will have no effect on trade between member states. the commission is not at present considering changes to the de minimis rules to cater for exceptionally serious economic circumstances. however, the commission would recall that it has in the past put in place exceptional measures to allow state aid to address serious disturbances in the economy of the member states. for instance, in response to the effects of financial crisis on the real economy, it adopted the so called "temporary framework", which applied from december 2009 until december 2011 and allowed, amongst other, aid up to eur 500.000 per undertaking. the commission retains the possibility to take such measures where necessary under article 107(3)(b) tfeu."
mr president, i have two minutes, like all the others, because we didn’t have our mandate, but i will not keep you for two minutes. i will now speak in my own language. votăm astăzi pentru regulamentul agenției it a uniunii - agenția eu-lisa. este vitală pentru managementul și operarea bazelor de date care asigură securitatea uniunii și securitatea și siguranța fiecărui cetățean. regulamentul are și prevederi care protejează datele personale, cum este normal. personalul it și analiștii de date din cadrul agenției eu-lisa nu au acces la informațiile din servere, ci doar asigură fluiditatea informațiilor și a traficului la frontierele externe, atunci când cei de la frontierele externe au probleme accidental sau temporar la accesarea bazelor de date. statele membre au un rol crucial, pentru că ele trebuie să introducă rapid informații corecte și complete în bazele de date – altfel, bazele de date nu pot funcționa. de asemenea, eu-lisa va avea un rol crucial în interoperabilitatea bazelor de date făcute în ani diferiți în timp și care nu vorbesc între ele. e bine să fie coordonate. e mai simplu să te adresezi într-un singur loc decât în zece locuri să obții o informație. în final, mă bucur că am ajuns la un acord final. le mulțumesc raportorilor, le mulțumesc colegilor, le mulțumesc advisorilor de la toate grupurile și, încă o dată, toată gratitudinea mea pentru eforturile pe care le-au făcut pentru a ajunge la o înțelegere finală.
mr president, i was happy to support this proposal to clarify the rules on conflicts of interest, at a time when national politicians would be in a conflict of interest and could in some way draw on the money provided by the european union. i think that such a rule should have been supplemented, because the example of the czech republic shows that such a situation can arise and for the sake of transparency towards our citizens and the public it must be clear that whoever decides on european money cannot at the same time benefit personally from such a decision. i think it is very important that this has been added to the rules by our vote, and that is why we have supported the whole proposal.
mr president, etias is a new system which will allow visa-free entry into the union of third-country nationals. there are over a billion people in this situation. they come from 60 countries, and it turns out that when they come, some of them don't meet european standards. the etias will determine whether the presence of that person on our territory constitutes a security, criminal, illegal migration or health risk. the creation of this system will also increase europol's role. europol shall enter into the etias system information on persons suspected of having committed or suspected of having committed criminal offences. europol shall also enter data on terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences into the etias system. for a secure europe, all these systems and agencies need to function and cooperate.
the 2019 union budget should reflect the priorities of the union's security agenda and continue to allocate funds for cross-border judicial cooperation, the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations made available to it for the 2019 budget to cover the expenditure incurred by europol in the implementation of the budget. we need to raise him. this money would enable, and if we increase it, it enables operational activities that europol has already set for the next financial year, for example: secondary security checks to prevent migrant smuggling, the fight against drugs, against cybercrime, the fight against online terrorism. i hope we can meet those requirements for the safety of each of us. a safe europe means, first and foremost, a europe free from crime and the threat of terrorism.
the next item is the report by helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the legal framework of the european solidarity corps and amending regulations (eu) no 1288/2013, (eu) no 1293/2013, (eu) no 1303/2013, (eu) no 1305/2013, (eu) no 1306/2013 and decision no 1313/2013/eu (com(2017)0262 – c8-0162/2017 – 2017/0102(cod) (a8-0060/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 september 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, many member states struggle with reduced administrative capacities and lack of know-how to implement well-designed public policies. it was the acknowledgement of this fact that led to the establishment of the structural reform support programme (srsp) back in 2017. as a bottom-up tool entailing little administrative burden, the srsp can play a very important role in implementing reforms that push for convergence, reduce disparities and increase administrative capacity. it can also be instrumental in creating the conditions for smarter and more efficient deployment and absorption of eu funds. in the time that has passed since its adoption, the programme has already proven to be a popular and useful instrument in member states. given the positive initial results, i strongly support both the reinforcement of the programme’s budget as well as the commission’s proposal to endow it with its own eur 25 billion budget in the next multiannual financial framework.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to underline the importance of the report and congratulate the rapporteur. of course, i come from the employers' side, and yes, it is extremely complicated, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, to sustain the costs of low productivity, because we have to recognize that people who are not 100% fit for work cannot have the same productivity. but here is the role of the states - and i must stress that it is important to develop social enterprises, to have compensation policies, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that employ people with reduced work capacity. above all, we have to prevent, because, after all, it is important that we do not reach a very large number of people sick from stress, from stress at work. i think that there is a great deal of education that is needed here, both for employers to create jobs without stressing employees, and for those who are no longer able to work, to put emphasis on policies by the member states, but also by the commission, to support compensation programmes for employers that focus on the integration and reintegration of the workforce that is not 100% able to work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to congratulate the rapporteur and say from the outset that i am particularly in favour of paragraph 17, namely that of having a directive, commissioner, because we are certainly not starting to work against harassment now, but the results are not the statistics that have been shown here and are included and the report is certainly not the real data, because there is under-reporting. let's think especially about the rural environment, the villages, where women suffer violence and they don't have the courage to report domestic violence or workplace violence because there is no possibility afterwards to be protected, there is no shelter, there is no possibility to not continue this violence in a permanent form. that is why i think this report is welcome, but it must have a purpose. on the one hand, to have programs, school programs, education, is obvious, but we must have sanctions, because any nonsense we write in a directive or in a law if there will be very harsh sanctions in the case of sexual harassment, and in the case of moral harassment. i'm glad there's a chapter on political life, because we have to be fair to ourselves -- and in political life there's harassment, and we bring attention to this path to political leaders.
mr president, sexual harassment is a form of violence and it is the most extreme form of gender—based discrimination. up to 55% of women have been sexually harassed in the eu. this is totally unacceptable and intolerable. we must adopt and ensure the full implementation of legal instruments, including the istanbul convention, to eliminate gender—based violence across europe. unfortunately, because of the low awareness, social stereotyping, fear and shame associated with talking to other people, women are always reluctant to report these cases. one point i would like to raise is the importance of education, which i believe should be a fundamental tool in avoiding and eliminating this misconduct, changing mindsets and reducing cultural tolerance of sexism and sexual harassment. education programmes and debates should be introduced for both girls and boys, as should information about prevention and measures against sexual harassment, and victims’ rights – such as how to seek legal aid – must be extended to our children at an early stage.
the digital age is redefining the role of languages and giving greater emphasis to the usefulness of each language. it is therefore very important that europe values its linguistic diversity and devotes serious resources to the practical implementation of equal rights for languages. modern technology now offers a solution, and the european union can turn any competitive disadvantages arising from linguistic fragmentation into a global leader. the report draws particular attention to the importance of comprehensive legal protection for some 60 european regional and minority languages and stresses the recognition of the collective rights of national and linguistic minorities in the digital world. it considers it extremely important to provide mother tongue education for speakers of the eu's official and non-official languages. this is an area where some member states do not seem to be doing all they can to promote linguistic diversity, and are actually doing all they can to prevent it. this kind of attitude does not help the eu to achieve its objectives and is therefore clearly anti-eu.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, crossborder regions are an essential part of the european territory and one third of european citizens live in them. however, they suffer from developmental barriers and the problems they face are generally common. a framework of measures is therefore required to facilitate the exploitation of this potential by removing obstacles and exploiting existing advantages. firstly, cross-border labour mobility is an important factor in the development of cooperation and member states, through regional authorities, have an obligation to facilitate the free movement of workers from these regions. the lack of connectivity is another factor that hinders the dynamism of cross-border activities, and the authorities in these regions have a role to play in providing solutions to fill the missing links in transport networks. regional authorities should make more efforts to encourage entrepreneurship in cross-border regions by creating common electronic portals for economic activities on both sides of the border. territorial cooperation programmes provide significant support to cross-border regions and regional authorities have the opportunity to make the most of these forms of support.
mr president, commissioner, you are one of the commissioners who is very familiar with the issue of regional development and cohesion funds. of course, much has been done in crossborder trade and economic development, but the rapporteur has put forward a few proposals here with which i fully agree. first, we need to simplify procedures - for cross-border recruitment, for labour mobility. new small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to develop, which in turn will certainly create jobs and ultimately bring a profit to the budgets of the countries concerned and, of course, to the budget of the european union. i think it is very much up to the member states, but it would not hurt to come up with an experience from the commission, with a procedure, with an example, and try to increase the funds that are allocated for cross-border economic development, because - as we said here - a good part of the citizens of the european union live in these areas. and yes, i agree that we should find ways to do so for the external borders, not just the internal borders. perhaps one day romania and bulgaria will be in the schengen area, so that we no longer have two internal markets.
mr president, african swine fever is causing significant damage to european farmers in estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, ukraine, romania and bulgaria. according to figures released by the national veterinary and food safety authority, currently in romania eleven counties are affected, with 826 outbreaks of plague recorded, and the number of animals slaughtered reached 159 645 heads. i would also like to draw attention to the danger of a drastic reduction in pig populations in europe due to this disease, which could affect the food security of the citizens of the european union, and i therefore believe that the european executive must take steps to activate the reserve funds needed for rapid intervention in the affected countries. i remind you that if one member state has a problem, the whole union has the same problem. i therefore believe that the european union should be more involved in this situation.
mr president, commissioner, the european project began as a round table around which equal nations were to sit. later, the idea of a superstate emerged, where the real power would be exercised by the super-bureaucrats and the member states would become a kind of provinces that would take care of the asphalt and the paving of the roads. so the round table became rectangular. recently, the idea of a multi-speed europe has been on the air. i imagine that on one side we'll have a table with chairs, below some benches like in the cafeteria, and in the back some standing places for those who will applaud. at the previous state of the union address, the president of the commission promised us reform. in the spring, he presented us with five scenarios of the future. since then, no one has spoken of reform, and 'multi-speed europe' seems to be the scenario based on 'fact'. we're heading straight for the end of this term. not for our own prestige, but for the fate of the european project, we are obliged to decide transparently what we want to become. the key to the union's survival is neither the concentration of power nor geographical segregation. a prosperous union must be based on the democratic empowerment of nations for a common future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to refer to the recent statement by the vice-president of the commission, commissioner oettinger. it is surprising to me that a high dignitary, a high representative of the commission, in a public space, in an official meeting, accuses and announces the danger of death of the european union because of some member states, including my country, romania. of course i was asked at home what was going on, what are the reasons why the commissioner lists the four member states and romania. romania, as we know, is a pro-european country. we are among the top countries with citizens who want the european project. i want and ask the commissioner to explain this, so that i too can tell the citizens why romania wants to destroy the european union. we were among the leading countries in participation in the frontex program, in all the programs initiated by the european union. what is the commissioner's reason? and i think it was inappropriate, not to say irresponsible, for the commissioner to say that now that we are around the elections, unless he is campaigning. the european elections are coming up and we really need unity in the european union.
mr president, i have heard mr verhofstadt and mr bullmann criticizing the hungarian and polish governments on many occasions. i too rightly consider orban and kaczyński to be opponents of the rule of law. but perhaps mr verhofstadt and mr bullmann should also look at romania, where the parties they have befriended, the psd and alde, are wreaking havoc. i do not think that mr bullmann and mr verhofstadt like what is happening in romania in the name of liberalism and socialism: the destruction of the independence of the judiciary, the use of force and tear gas against peaceful protesters, the public lynching of opponents of the current government, the partisan political confiscation of the state. i recommend to mr verhofstadt and mr bullmann that they exclude the psd and alde from their political groups, because the place of the parties of mr dragnea and mr tariceanu is with the populists and the radicals. nobody in romania understands how the socialist and liberal family supports people, politicians who go directly, explicitly against the rule of law, directly and explicitly against the european commission and the european institutions. the place of these parties is, unfortunately, alongside radicals and populists.
today is the first day of school in many member states. in romania, a few days before the start of school, a ministerial decree was issued that will bring significant changes for primary school children who learn a minority language: from now on, they will have to learn the state language not from their teacher but from specialists who teach in upper secondary schools, who in some cases do not even know the native language of the young children. the implementation of the decree is impossible without a sufficient number of workers, but without any professional or political consultation, the minister of education has placed thousands of primary school children in a completely unknown and alien situation. this is not only unprofessional and malicious, but also deeply offensive to children who learn in a minority language, their parents and well-trained teachers. this type of decision-making process is typical of the romanian authorities, which not only do not carry out a feasibility study, but also do not consult stakeholders when taking similar decisions. the only solution is to withdraw the decree and apologize to those affected.
mr president, mr prime minister, i want to say from the beginning that i love greece, i love the greek people and you have a great country. but i don't want to talk about greece, as a colleague said. we are talking about the future of europe, and so after congratulating you on your achievements, i want to ask you point blank: what is your view, as the prime minister of your country, on the future of europe? do you agree with mr macron's proposal, which, again, tells us that we need two europe, with some countries being more powerful than others? what is your view on the fact that the european parliament should have the legislative initiative? what is your view and how do you see the problem resolved in relation to the republic of macedonia? lastly, i would like to ask you what your position is on the new multiannual financial framework, whether it is right to cut funding for agricultural policy and regional development. here are some points that i would be interested, as a member of the council, to hear from you here.
i have an announcement to make: the committee on legal affairs has verified the accreditation of mr romeo franz and mr christophe hansen and has proposed that their terms of office be validated as from 3 july and 2 september 2018 respectively. are there any comments? no? thank you. thank you. so these warrants are validated.
mr marias, your point has been recorded. personally, i do not know the details and therefore i would abstain from making any further comment.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (for results and other voting details: see minutes)
i got it.
the vote is over.
we thank you. you should know that there is an ‘f’ here (the chairman points to the list of speakers) which helps me not to fall into the trap.
mr. president, the hungarian prime minister tried in his speech to manipulate the hungarian nation. we do not take action against the hungarian nation. we take action against politicians who violate european values, as is the prime minister of hungary. besides, budapest, and i mean again the political leadership, is copying the practices of moscow. prime minister orban explicitly advocates an illiberal system, in which civil society, free press, academic freedom, diversity, independent judiciary no longer have a place. at the same time, european money is disappearing. olaf investigated 35 cases in which €40 million from the cohesion fund went missing. where did they go? i don't know - said a colleague before me. the recovery of these 40 million euros from hungary is required, from the political factor. michael ignatieff, the rector of the central european liberal university, said publicly the gist -- there have always been people who liked what orban said about migration, but the issue for everyone is whether they like what orban says about democracy, freedom of the press, economic freedom and, above all, what orban does against democracy, freedom of the press, economic freedom, european values. that's what we vote for, that's what we vote for.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, mr prime minister, i was waiting for your views because last week i was interviewed by a journalist from hungary who asked me how i would vote. as a member of the libe committee, i talked to journalists from hungary who came and complained and showed that their rights were being curtailed. i'm appalled by your position. for four years and more, i have been watching all the leaders of the member countries. none of them behaved like you - arrogant, defiant. you told us you didn't care in your speech. you didn't follow any colleagues, you didn't turn around to see who was speaking. stay and challenge us. mr. prime minister, we are not attacking hungary. i have friends, i live in timisoara, i took holidays in hungary. i mean, you want to do something that's not in the treaty? you say you're defending your country, but you understand that you're in a club, you've signed some agreements and you have to respect them? or do you want to do whatever you want, but meddle in other states, as you do in romania. that's what i want you to understand, it's not the hungarian people we're punishing here, but your way of governing.
pm hungary for those who are missing the details, a 108-page report has been sent to each of you, please read it. i think i understand mr. verhofstadt's feelings for us. it's a pity he's not here. i see that the situation, mr. verhofstadt, is that you hate us conservative christians more than you love europe. and to the hungarians who voted against their own country, i can only say that the problem with you is that you hate me more than you love your country. as for corruption, i'll tell my colleague bullmann, in hungary all bids are public. any european company can start. the proportion of single-entry tenders in hungary is 26%, compared to the eu average of 24%. we've got some work to do here. the rate of investigations launched on the basis of the commission's notification in hungary is 47% and in the eu it is 42%, so we are better in this respect. we have, by the way, accepted the commission proposal with zero tolerance, which mr timmermans presented to us in june. as far as the ceu is concerned, mr. weber is wrong. if you look at the bavarian regulations, you'll find that they're more stringent than the hungarian regulations. you're a double standard, even though we're part of a party family. and i also want you to go to the ceu website. i went to the website today before i came here, and i read the following sentences. and i quote from them, from that website, you can read this: 1. the functioning of ceu is guaranteed in the future the university writes about itself. everyone who has just started school will finish their studies in budapest the university itself is mentioned. all the accreditations of the university are intact the university writes about itself and also says: budapest is a city of hospitality. we're waiting for you, come and have a look around. as far as extremist parties are concerned, the fight against immigration is not a party issue. i am willing to cooperate with any government that wants to protect the borders and i raise my hat to the brave italians. as for anti-semitism, i want to make it clear that it is decreasing in central europe and increasing in western europe. in fact, the center of modern anti-semitism is in brussels, because that's where they fund anti-israel organizations. please pay attention to this in the future, and it was not us, but you who crowned marx, the father of modern anti-market anti-semitism, with a statue. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, i'm with the european people's party, i see we're in trouble. i see we're weak. we european populists are not strong enough to go our own way. i see we're weak and we're dancing like the socialists and liberals whistle. i wish we could change that in the future. and if you say that the report does not condemn hungary, read the title. they don't want to condemn the hungarian government, but hungary. thank you very much for your attention.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, having listened to the debate, i think there are a few things we have to clarify. first of all, the commission operates on the basis of the treaty on european union. the treaty was signed by sovereign nations and was adopted in sovereign nations. if you’re a member of a club and you sign a treaty and want to be a member of the club, you apply the rules. you cannot use the argument of democracy to ignore the rules. if you have a democratic majority, you can change the rules, you can negotiate a change of the treaty, but you can’t violate the rules, nor can you ignore the rules. everything i put in my report at the beginning of this debate, and all the concrete issues i have put before you are based in fact. they are issues we have with the hungarian government on the basis of, in our view, rules that are not being respected. we will pursue this in a dialogue with the hungarian government and we will take the hungarian government to court if we believe that they violate the rules that were agreed at european level. that is a task of the commission. whether i was elected to this position or not is neither here nor there. what we do is we respect the treaties and this role was given to the commission in the treaties. the treaties are the fundament upon which we operate. i just want to add one issue to that: when we criticise the hungarian government and its legislative measures, we do this very precisely. i have to say – to then say that criticising laws and criticising the government would amount to criticising a nation or a people, frankly speaking, mr orbán, that’s the coward’s way out. if you make these laws and if you stand for these laws, stand for them, and we will have a debate and dialogue and hopefully we will resolve them, but don’t try to deflect attention from criticism about the actions of your government by saying that those who criticise the government attack your nation or your people. that’s the coward’s way out. one final remark: the emptiness of the arguments on this side need to be compensated by screaming and shouting. volume will not compensate for the emptiness of your arguments, sir. finally, i want to reiterate that the commission believes that the only european way is through dialogue. if the dialogue doesn’t deliver the results, we will go to court, and i hope that hungary will stick to its line to execute court rulings. that is the rule of law in europe. europe was created on the basis of rights of individuals. we’ve had a past – sometimes – of dictatorship through democracy. that is why we can never ignore the rule of law, nor fundamental rights, and using the argument of democracy against the law and fundamental rights is going back to a european history none of us want to see again. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, having followed the debate attentively, i would like to reiterate that the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights are cornerstones of the union. therefore, these values are at the heart of our concerns. as the presidency, we will act as an honest broker, and i can assure you that the presidency will closely follow the vote and will pay particular attention to all views expressed today. as i stated at the beginning, there will be no compromises regarding democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. – the european union is grounded on values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, and the rule of law, and on respect for human rights, to which all member states have freely subscribed. as a convinced defender of our common values, i am profoundly concerned about the recent threats to what binds together, represented by the cruel murderers of journalists in malta and slovakia, the questionable judicial reforms in poland, the threat to the rule of law in romania, by a ruling party led by a politician who has been sentenced to prison, and the current state of democracy in hungary. with regard to the latter, ms sargentini’s report sets out in detail the multiple actions taken by the hungarian government in recent years that have a negative impact on the union’s image as a whole and could jeopardise our international relationships in the future. activating article 7 teu would highlight the fact that european union belongs not to its leaders but to its citizens. regardless of our political affiliation, as members of this chamber we have to stand united in defending our electors’ explicit attachment to our values, which are appreciated worldwide, and in seeking further solutions for those of us who are, unfortunately, straying from those values.
in writing. the digital environment offers new opportunities, new actors and new business models, and the evolution of digital technologies has changed the way works and other subject matter are created, produced, distributed and exploited. as such, consumers have new opportunities to access copyright-protected content and the eu copyright legal framework, while still valid, needs to be adapted to these new realities. this is because rights holders encounter difficulties when they try to license their rights and get paid for the online distribution of their works. we therefore agree that this directive should ensure that authors and rightholders receive a fair share of the value generated by the use of works and other subject matter. also taking into account that the existing transparency in relation to the revenues generated from the use of works or performances is limited, affecting the remuneration of authors and performers, this proposal contains measures to increase transparency and to ensure greater balance in the contractual relations between authors and performers and the persons to whom they transfer their rights.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for putting artificial intelligence on the agenda. i know that this might look like a debate about some distant future or about science fiction: it’s not. artificial intelligence is already part of our daily life – when we use our smartphone or when we watch a tv series, we understand that very well – and it is now starting to be weaponised and to impact on our collective security. so it makes a lot of sense to have this debate here today. we are entering a world where drones could fire and could kill with no need for a man to pull the trigger. artificial intelligence could take decisions on life and death, with no direct control from a human being. the reason why we are here today is not that we are afraid of technology, let me start by saying that. human ingenuity and technological progress have made our lives easier and more comfortable. the point is that scientists and researchers should and must be free to do their job, knowing that their discoveries will not be used to harm innocent people. after world war ii, a large number of nuclear scientists started to oppose nuclear weapons so that research could focus on the peaceful applications of nuclear energy, and i think that today we are witnessing something very similar: scientists and artificial intelligence pioneers are warning us of the dangers ahead. some of them are refusing to work for the military. i believe the best way ahead is to agree on some common principles regarding the military use of artificial intelligence, and to define the boundaries of its applications so that, within those limits, scientists are free to explore the immense positive potential of artificial intelligence. this is a core objective in the commission’s communication on artificial intelligence and in the follow-up work that will also cover security matters. at the beginning of this month, the united nations group of governmental experts on lethal autonomous weapons systems agreed on an initial set of possible guiding principles. this is the first step, after a number of failures, towards a shared approach. it is a good starting point, and the new guiding principles are very much in line with the positions we have developed inside the european union under european external action service coordination. let me say that this is one of the points on the agenda where i could easily sit on both sides of the chamber, because there is work being done on the commission side and work being done on the council side, as well as under the eeas leadership. the group of experts stresses that international humanitarian law applies to all weapon systems, both old and new, and that all weapons must always remain under human control. the experts have agreed that the un convention on certain conventional weapons is the appropriate framework to regulate weapons of this kind and that any policy measure must not interfere with the civilian uses of artificial intelligence. this is only the first stage of the discussion and there is no agreement yet on any regulation, so work will continue within the group of governmental experts during the course of next year. i believe that we europeans have an important contribution to bring to this table. our member states, it’s true, hold different views on some issues, but we all agree that the use of force must always abide by international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights law, and this fully applies to autonomous weapons systems. states and human beings remain responsible and accountable for their behaviour in an armed conflict, even if it involves the use of autonomous weapons, and this is why our position at the un has been that humans should always make the decisions on the use of lethal force and always exert sufficient control over lethal weapon systems. of course, we do not have all the answers or all the solutions, and, partly for that reason, i decided a few months ago to set up a panel with tech leaders from different backgrounds and fields of expertise. we had the first meeting in brussels in june, together with me and all of them. we’ve started to carry on a conversation between the tech world and the foreign and security policy community, and my intention as high representative is to put this issue on the table for the defence ministers, too, at one of our next council meetings: the question of how we can harness the opportunities of the digital era while also addressing the rising threats. among the members of this global tech panel are some of the experts on artificial intelligence who have been most vocal on the issue of lethal autonomous weapons. together with the experts’ community, we can find a solution that is both prudent and innovative. we can continue exploring the immense possibilities of artificial intelligence and, at the same time, guarantee full respect for human rights. this is a collective responsibility and i’m particularly glad that the european parliament is leading the way and driving the conversation on this issue, so i am looking forward very much to listening to your views on this extremely important part of our common work. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, we welcome your initiatives in an area which we consider to be of the future and of particular importance for the future of humanity. artificial intelligence is a growing reality, growing in scope, but without a regulatory framework it risks constituting an attack on international security and stability and on individuals. we must respect the principles of international law, the principles of humanitarian law and also our values, which we protect at european level, in the use of these types of lethal autonomous weapons. it cannot be accepted that we allow these artificial intelligences to decide the right to life or death of a person. in this context, the absence of any moral, ethical and even legal responsibility could lead to chaos, abuse and global insecurity. that is why this resolution asks you to continue the work you have started until we have a common position on this matter, a position which is crucial and, i stress, madam vice-president of the european commission, in full accordance with our european law and the values we protect.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, 17 years ago today, the usa was hit by the largest attack in its history and i believe that all of us remember perfectly well where we were, each of us, when we first heard that a plane had hit the twin towers in new york. if you think of that day, if you think of that moment, you understand how close europe and america have always been because it was an attack not only on the usa but on all of us. this is why i want to start this debate, from my side, by expressing all our sympathy and friendship to the usa, all its institutions and all its citizens, while they commemorate that terrible day. it was a terrible day for the usa and it was a terrible day for europe. the world has changed in unexpected and unforeseeable ways since that 9/11, 17 years ago. today, all global powers are rethinking their place in the world. later tonight we will discuss our relations with china, but before that i am very glad of the opportunity to discuss elmar brok’s excellent work on the usa. the transatlantic relationship is evolving. the usa helped us in europe, during the second world war, to defeat nazism and fascism, and helped us immediately after the second world war to rebuild our continent. this is something we europeans cannot, should not and, i think, will not forget. never. yet, after 70 years, the european union has grown up. we are a global power and a global security provider. we have our own principles, our interests and our unique european way to peace, security and development. i have no doubt that the european union and the usa are, and will remain, natural partners and natural friends in spite of some disagreements we may have with the us administration. as your report indicates perfectly well, mr brok, we work very closely together with the us administration on a wide range of issues. from the western balkans to north korea, from ukraine to afghanistan – and the list can continue – our cooperation is strong because we share the same goals and the same interests and, i would say, the same vision of the world. we work together on a daily basis on counterterrorism and our cooperation within nato is closer than ever. since we signed the eu—nato joint declaration two years ago, our personnel have been working together on a daily basis on the broadest set of security issues, from cybersecurity to maritime security. this is new and it goes beyond some of the rhetoric or the narrative or the symbolism we have been facing in recent months. us and eu staff, including at military level, are working together today as never before in the past. i also see the opportunity to find new synergies on our energy policies, in particular after our recent energy council with the usa in brussels in july –at the very same time, by the way, as the nato summit. europe and the usa have a clear interest in diversifying our energy supplies, and this is just one of the many issues where our interests converge. i believe another such issue is trade, particularly in relation to china and world trade organisation reform. divisions on this issue can only harm both us and european interests. in some cases, the divisions harm our interests but, conversely, by working together we can be much more effective in pushing for more just and fair international trade. let me be very clear on this: we will always seek cooperation with the usa on trade, as on all other matters. at the same time, we have shown that we are ready to protect our interests when the usa has chosen a different approach. i think the report highlights perfectly well this balance that we have. we are together, as european institutions, on this. we responded strongly to the introduction of the us tariffs on steel and aluminium that, as you rightly say, are still in place, and we are engaging with various levels of the us government and congress to avoid the unacceptable threats of us tariffs in other areas, particularly on cars. president juncker’s visit to the white house last july managed to avert the risk of new tariffs on our car industry. as you know, presidents juncker and trump agreed on the need to find a shared solution to preserve transatlantic trade. since then, contacts have continued at all levels. it is complicated work but it is ongoing. as you know, an executive working group is now discussing the details, with a clear political mandate, which is to agree on the way forward. the meeting of the two presidents was a clear demonstration that there is always room for a win-win solution, even when confrontation seems inevitable, and that this is a matter of political will. the political will on our side is always to try to seek cooperation, and to defend our interests when we see that there is no other way to go. it is no secret that we have one main disagreement, which concerns multilateralism and the very idea of a system for global governance. we europeans continue to see multilateralism as the best way to prevent chaos, conflicts and confrontation in a multi—polar world. by the way, our support for multilateralism is something we often discuss in this chamber. it is based on our values as the best alternative to a situation where might makes right. but we also have a strong interest in preserving multilateralism and in strengthening multilateralism: namely, the interest that we have to prevent conflicts, to promote sustainable development, to promote human rights and to guarantee, in this way, our own european security. that is why we continue – and we will continue – to defend the nuclear deal with iran and the paris agreement on climate change, and to fund the essential work of all the un agencies, including the one for palestinian refugees, unrwa. more generally, we will stand by the fundamental belief that international rules should not be seen as a constraint for some, but rather as a guarantee for all. we will continue to invest strongly in the un system. i see in my daily work that we are not alone in this task. we are not alone in having this objective. it’s rather the opposite. from canada to australia, from south america to east asia, from the african union to the asia-europe meeting (asem), there is a whole world calling for effective multilateralism and for partners to build it. they are all looking to the european union as the reliable and indispensable partner they need in this world of today. so we have a responsibility. protecting and reforming multilateralism can only be a collective endeavour and that is why we should invest more and more in this alliance for effective multilateralism, in this effort to build partnerships at a global level to strengthen multilateralism. however, we should explore, together with the usa, any possibility to address the shortcomings of the current multilateral system and make our international institutions more effective and fit for purpose. i believe that you, this parliament, have an important role to play when it comes to our relationship with the usa – and i think the report highlights this well – through the work of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on international trade, the subcommittee on security and defence, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and other committees and, of course, through the delegations for relations with the usa and canada. the european parliament’s transatlantic legislators’ dialogue with the us congress provides a very important platform for exchange, and i have witnessed at first-hand how crucial it is to engage with congress and with different departments within the administration. this is vital work that we need to do together – and that you need to do, first and foremost. your report, mr brok, concludes that we need to invest even more in people—to-people contacts across the atlantic and i couldn’t agree more. some of you might know that i myself benefited from an exchange programme with the usa. these kinds of exchanges are the best possible investment in the future of the transatlantic partnership because the ties that we have between europe and the usa extend well beyond washington dc and run deep into our societies. that is why i am so convinced that, whatever policy disagreements we may have with the administration, our friendship with the usa is here to stay. we will keep investing in this friendship, continuing at the same time to invest in european union unity and strength, and we will continue doing it together – all the european union institutions together with the european parliament. this excellent report shows perfectly well the approach that we share in this partnership which has developed so much – sometimes with challenges, sometimes with easier work to be done, and in every case so crucially for the rest of the world. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate elmar brok on his excellent report, which provides us with a thorough analysis of the state of our relations with the united states. the report has the great merit of raising a crucial question. in the face of the uncertainties introduced by the trump administration and the many complex challenges facing us today on the international stage, what is the meaning of the transatlantic partnership? the third paragraph of the report is essential in this sense, because it reminds us how important this relationship is and how important it is that it remains strong. beyond divisions and disagreements, i believe that both we and the united states should realize that what unites us must be stronger than what divides us. in the face of the multiplication of conflicts in the world, the transatlantic partnership must be strengthened. in the absence of time, i shall mention only two areas where a joint transatlantic response will be essential. first, we must counter russia's attempts to destabilize western societies. secondly, i believe we must engage in a new high-level dialogue on the western balkans and work, both the european union and the united states, to strengthen the rule of law and democracy in these regions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i started this debate by saying i hope, i trust that this debate tonight will give not only europeans but also the libyans the picture of a united european union. can i start by saying you’re 22 in this hemicycle tonight discussing libya, and i think you expressed at least 15 different positions. you’re asking me to represent a strong, united european position. if i had to represent your views (and it’s not my job), it would be a difficult task. this is to make you understand that the effort we are trying to do is to represent a united, strong – not only political – position, but action: action, with libyans, putting the interest of the libyans first, not the interests of one group, or one militia or one militia against the other, but the libyan citizens. because you are perfectly right: reality on the ground is different from the theory of the negotiations. but those thousands of libyans that have been registering to vote in the last months are asking for normality in their lives and are knowing very well that the state doesn’t exist, has never existed in libya. but they want it. they want the oil revenues to benefit a normal organisation of services. they want the richness of their country and their natural resources to benefit normal people. they’re asking for a normal life, and this is our first thought; this is what guides our action: trying to create the unity that maybe you cannot find in this hemicycle – i hope yes – but among our member states. and let me be very clear on elections, because i have heard your voices and i know very well what is the current debate, especially among commentators and in the media about that, but we do have a clear, common european union position that i have been expressing in these months, including to our libyan interlocutors and on which we have been working with the un special representative in these months on a daily basis, which is that elections will need to take place first of all in a sustainable security environment. secondly, with a clear constitutional and legal framework: libyans need to know for what they are asked to vote. and we need to have the reasonable certainty that all different stakeholders will accept the result of the elections the day after the elections. then it’s not for anybody else to define the date; that is why we have an electoral committee that we are supporting, because we want the libyans to run the process, to decide the process, but they need our help, they need our support, from the basic financial need to have computers in the offices to the even more basic need to have offices, because with the attack they had in may, they couldn’t even use the offices anymore. so we are doing this work, we’re trying to empower the libyans to decide for themselves and to try to help the united nations to run this difficult political process in a way that gives an answer to the demand of the libyan people to have institutions that function, which is, i think, a natural expectation of anybody in the world. and i will continue discussing this and working on this, not only with the un special representative salamé in new york in a couple of weeks’ time, but also with our libyan interlocutors and with the main regional players, because what is essential is that we coordinate this work not only with the un, not only among ourselves in the european union, but also that we coordinate with the neighbouring countries, with the african union and with the arab league. and believe me, it’s quite something. but i think that, on the support of the process of political transition, compared to a few years ago, we have a better international and regional understanding of the needs that need to be addressed. on migration: for me personally it’s quite painful, after all the fights and all the work i have personally tried to make in these years, swimming against the, how do you say, nuotando controcorrente (i ask the help of the translators). and you know very well that the mainstream in the european union member states and even in this parliament is not to put focus and priority on saving lives. this has been my priority, and this is why today we have sophia at sea that is fighting the traffickers, trying to train the libyan coastguards, together with the ngos and with the un humanitarian agencies that are doing the training. we cannot be selective on when we like the un agencies or the ngos and when we don’t, or when we ignore that they’re working with us. we cannot can pick and choose. the work we’re trying to do is exactly because we know there’s a problem. you can forget it and complain and do nothing, or you can try to engage and you can try to have a different kind of picture. is it perfect? far from it. is it better than before? starting to get better and may be at risk of getting worse now again, because the fight against militias is creating a different kind of dynamic. but this is the reason why we have added to the mandate of operation sophia the training of the libyan coast guards, including on human rights standards and including with the un agencies and with the ngos, because we want that to start to be part of the dna of the extremely limited institutional work that is done there. because we cannot say we need to empower the libyans without interfering and then say it’s useless, they cannot run either the country nor the territorial waters. it’s a contradiction in terms. so what we need to do is to work with them on the international standards and try to upgrade the levels not only of efficiency but also of respect of human rights. this is the same kind of work we have been doing and we are continuing to do in extremely difficult conditions on the detention centres, where we finally managed – together with the african union, which i want to thank, and together with the iom and unhcr, which i’d like to thank, because when we started this work, they were not even present in the country, and we are there together. when we started this work a couple of years ago, i remember perfectly well the first meetings we had with the unchr and the iom, and they were telling us: ‘no way we’re going back to libya, we’re not there, we’re not operating there, we only have a few local staff.’ and we have been working together in these years to bring them back, to be ourselves back (and finally we are), and to work with our african partners. i fully share with you – and i said it at the beginning – most of our member states are not doing their part, especially when it comes to giving international protection to those in need. the issue of the refugees that are entitled to protection that are in niger needs to be addressed by member states. there’s an engagement, there’s a commitment that needs to be respected. that’s clear. and i appreciate you raising your voice on this as well as – i have heard that much tonight from you on this, but i trust we agree on that – on the resources we allocate for our partnership with countries of origin and transit, because they need our support in this. so priority number one is to diminish the number of people dying inside libya, at sea, and in the desert before they enter libya. second is also reducing the number of migrants arriving, because we are working in destroying the system of business of the traffickers. these are the objectives we have. is it easy? is it accomplished? no, it’s not easy and it’s not accomplished yet. but the trend compared to when we had nothing – no european union policy or presence on this fight (and that was just four years ago, i would like to remind you all: you were here) – there was no policy at all. no european union presence at sea at all, at land at all, no work on this file. it was left to single member states. but by the way: change in government, change policies. so i think that we need to keep working very hard on this, keeping in mind first and foremost the facts some of you have mentioned. we cannot talk about libya only because we are worried about the migrants. i agree with you: there is some frustration. my experience is this: the biggest frustration of the libyans is when we remember that libya exists only in relation to the number of migrants arriving in europe, whereas they’ve been suffering for years, for different reasons: first because of a dictatorship and then because of a state of conflict, and they deserve to have a normal country and a normal life. (applause)
in writing. in the context of the highly uncertain and volatile situation in libya, the european union is continuously confronted with the problem of the inability of the libyan authorities to exercise the supreme authority of the state, which calls into question the effectiveness of any stabilisation attempt. the european union has an interest in a stable government in libya, capable of rebuilding the country and managing the waves of migration. the situation in the mediterranean is closely linked to the response capacity of the libyan authorities, and europe must therefore seek to keep the situation under control in the tripoli government and to put a stop to the activities of human traffickers. we have to admit that the problem is directly affecting italy, but it is also a challenge for the whole of europe because of the secondary movement of immigrants. the stabilisation of libya and, more broadly, of the north african states is a key interest of european countries and should be given due weight in the commission's external action.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this is one of those endless evenings we spend together. it is a pleasure. we have another debate after this, but i have got used to that now. on this debate, i want to say seriously that i share the sense of urgency that has made you call for this debate. the demolition of this small palestinian village would not only affect a local community, as one would think; it would also be a blow against the viability of the state of palestine and against the very possibility of a two-state solution. the israeli high court last week rejected the petitions by the residents of the palestinian village of khan al-ahmar and allowed the israeli authorities to proceed with the plans for demolition within seven days. any day now, the israeli authorities could start demolishing this community and evict the residents from their homes, including parents and children. this is why last week i called once again on the israeli authorities to reconsider this decision. that demolition would have grave humanitarian consequences and it would be contrary to israel’s obligations under international humanitarian law, including the fourth geneva convention. the demolition of khan al-ahmar, together with plans for further settlement expansions in the same area, would also severely threaten the viability of the two-state solution, as i said. the village is located in the so-called ‘e1’ area, which is of strategic importance for preserving the contiguity of a future palestinian state. the european union and its member states have been crystal clear about their opposition to this demolition. the foreign affairs council has systematically drawn attention to the plight of bedouin communities in the west bank and has repeatedly stated its strong opposition to israel’s settlements policy. such a policy is illegal under international law, including the demolitions of palestinian communities and the possible forced transfers of population. these are positions we share completely, as demonstrated by the european parliament’s resolution in may last year. the eu and its member states expressed their concerns about the imminent demolition through repeated statements, démarches and ministerial letters to the israeli authorities, and the representatives of several member states were present at the village on 5 july when the israeli forces attempted to cordon it off. until now, these efforts have been to no avail. israel claims that the community has been built without the required building permits. it is important to note, however, that it is virtually impossible for palestinians to obtain any building permits in area c of the west bank, as confirmed by the quartet report we produced in july 2016. we europeans, together with our international partners, have worked intensively to speed up the approval of master plans in area c, but again, with little success. israeli authorities have advanced plans for thousands of new settlement units, including attempts to regularise buildings that have been built without any permit or planning in israeli settlements. this is the situation on the ground: new settlements for israelis are built, while palestinian homes in the same area are demolished. this will only further entrench a one-state reality, with unequal rights for the two peoples, perpetual occupation and conflict. the two-state solution is today under serious threat – more than ever before – and yet there is no realistic and viable alternative that would end the conflict and achieve a just and lasting peace. this is also mainly, i would say, in israel’s interest. this is why the european union does not and will not give up on a negotiated two-state solution. we will continue our engagement on the ground in support of building a viable palestinian state, in support of the essential work that unrwa (united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east) is doing, and in support of projects that keep the perspective of a two-state solution alive. several member states are involved in the funding of khan al-ahmar, in particular, the tyre school. thanks to their engagement, hundreds of palestinian children have been able to go to school and receive quality education, and i am glad that the european parliament is also asking the israeli authorities not to implement the decision to demolish and not to strip an entire palestinian community of their homes and their children of the school. again, i stress this: this would not be in the interests of israel itself. any irregularity issues in the community should be solved in dialogue with its residents and not through demolition and displacement. all energy and resources should go into seeking political solutions for achieving peace, not into creating more grievances, which will only perpetuate the conflict.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, my group did not support the addition of this debate to the agenda. we did not vote in favour because we believe that discussing one aspect or another of the israeli-palestinian conflict in isolation cannot lead to a balanced debate. such a debate on an isolated issue will not contribute to lasting peace in the middle east, which is still our ultimate goal. our efforts would be better invested if europe became more involved in the peace process. secondly, we believe that the european union, through the statement you yourself made on 7 september, has taken a rather clear position on the threat of demolishing khan el-ahmar. the european union's position on israeli settlements is also well known, including demolitions and possible transfers of palestinian populations. now, where there is a fairly broad agreement, i think, in our parliament, is on the need to find a decent solution to the situation of these people. for years they have been housed in makeshift facilities, where the safety and sanitary conditions are very difficult to bear. these facilities were declared illegal in 2009 by the supreme court and since then, much effort has been made to find an alternative with the israeli authorities with the proposed relocation to west jahalin. the recent decision of the supreme court rejecting the complaints of the people of khan el-ahmar acknowledges these efforts and expresses the hope that a solution can be found peacefully and by mutual consent. i would add that i have seen the text of the joint resolution proposed by certain groups. we will not support a text that goes in all directions. we want to focus on this aspect, respecting the position already expressed by the high representative. i think it is pointless to make a mini-report with elements that do not help us to solve this problem.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, the committee on international trade also worked on the eu-china report, together with the committee on foreign affairs, and my thanks for the excellent cooperation go to rapporteur bas belder and foreign affairs committee colleagues. the international trade committee appreciates the increasing role of china on the global stage. we call for responsible engagement on key issues such as wto reform and climate change, to name but two. china has been very active lately in communicating new internal reforms and opening up various economic sectors. however, eu businesses in china do not report real progress on the ground. so china should complement its rhetoric with concrete measures to actually create the level playing field for european companies and investors, and especially for european smes. to sum up my approach on eu-china trade relations, cooperation is needed rather than confrontation, but without compromises on any of the eu core interests.
madam president, i should like to begin by welcoming the fact that the report under discussion today does not hesitate to criticise the dismal human rights situation that has been observed in china for years. since our last report three years ago, there have been serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i would like to draw attention to the massive repression of local religion and culture in areas where minorities live. the chinese authorities continue to prevent tibetans from exercising their fundamental rights and it is not even possible to say how many arrests for dissenting opinions have taken place in recent years. as for the situation in xinjiang, the latest report shows that up to one million uighurs are believed to be held in internment camps. in this context, i believe that a clear message must be sent to china: the deepening of the strategic partnership will also depend on concrete results in the field of human rights. i want to remind you how important it is to speak with one voice on the international stage about china, in order to avoid a situation like the one that occurred at the un human rights council meeting in geneva in june 2017.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here today to discuss a major issue, namely the fight against terrorist financing. the commission's proposal to strengthen the rules on the entry and exit of cash at the borders of the european union is one of the key features of our strategy to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and i would like to warmly thank the rapporteurs, mrs delvaux, mr lópez aguilar, for their work, their commitment, including their passion on this vital issue. we are facing an increasing inventiveness of terrorist networks, and it was urgent to update our rules on the control of cash movements in europe. terrorists and criminal organisations are now known to be able to circumvent existing rules, either by sending money by post or by using goods as a store of highly liquid values, such as gold or prepaid cards. this is an innovation. the commission's proposal which will be put to your vote tomorrow aims to close the loopholes in the current regulation and to ensure stronger controls on cash entering and leaving the european union. we therefore proposed to amend the existing regulation, which we considered to be outdated, by strengthening the controls applicable to cash worth more than eur 10 000 sent by parcel or freight; broadening the definition of cash so that new means of transporting value, such as prepaid cards or precious metals such as gold, can also be controlled; by creating a simplified and more robust mechanism for the exchange of information between national customs authorities and national financial intelligence units; finally, by allowing the competent authorities to deal with amounts of less than eur 10 000 in cash entering or leaving the union where there is evidence that these amounts are linked to criminal activity. i would like to emphasize two aspects which underlie the architecture of this text: flexibility and cooperation. first, there is flexibility. our legislation must, as far as possible, stand the test of time and be flexible enough to deal with the creativity of terrorist networks and criminals. we have therefore proposed that prepaid cards could, if necessary, be incorporated into this regulation by means of a delegated act. i am pleased that this aspect is included in the draft agreement between the co-legislators. the second aspect is cooperation. cooperation at european level, first of all. greater cooperation between all competent authorities is essential if we are to improve the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and this regulation will provide them with the appropriate aspects and tools and strengthen their operational capacity to detect movements of cash that may be linked to organised crime or terrorist networks. then there is global cooperation. this new regulation will also bring our rules into line with the standards and best international practices in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. it is also fully in line with the recommendations of the fatf (financial action task force) and this is a strong point of the proposal. i would also like to point out that this proposal is part of a more comprehensive strategy of the commission to combat terrorism and its financing. i should like to say a few words about some of the initiatives taken during this mandate. as commissioner for customs and taxation, i have been fully involved in this fight. in the area of customs controls, i first proposed to strengthen customs controls on the import of cultural goods at the highest risk, which can contribute to the financing of terrorism. tax evasion and tax fraud are also a source of funding for terrorist networks, which we have tackled, and i am pleased to have the support of this european parliament on this matter. as you know, since the beginning of my mandate, the fight against tax evasion has been one of my priorities, and i have therefore called on the member states to draw up the first european list of tax havens. i am also fighting for tax transparency with the european union, and i am thinking of the complete reform of the current vat system or the strengthening of the exchange of information between tax administrations. indeed, tax fraud is not unique to tax havens, and we have evidence that it is one of the ways in which criminal and terrorist organisations are financed. in conclusion, i would like to stress the complementarity between our proposal to strengthen controls on cash and the fifth anti-money laundering directive. this complementarity is reflected in the cooperation between financial intelligence units at union level. the commission will, by 1 june 2019, assess the obstacles and also the possibility of strengthening it, including by creating a coordination and support mechanism. the revision of the regulation on the control of cash movements was much awaited, as you know, to dry up the sources of income used by terrorist organisations, and it is by hitting them in the pocket that we will make them retreat. these new rules bring more transparency on financial transactions to improve the fight against money laundering across the european union. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission proposal which has been examined by your rapporteurs and which you are about to vote on provides effective solutions to the challenge of terrorism. i hope i can count, and i believe i can count on your support in this vote, because we must all be aware, in all the seats, that this is a subject on which the european citizens expect us to act, expect us to act strongly. it is our responsibility to ensure their protection and safety.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, as it turned out here, we needed to amend the cash control regulation and the reasons were well stated by both the commission in the commission's proposal and the rapporteurs. i fully support the report, because, of course, money laundering, the flow of illicit cash creates a distortion in the market, unfair competition, but, as the commissioner said, it also finances terrorism and, ultimately, affects the security of our states and the european union. i am glad that this report clarifies the concept of cash, because the old regulation did not cover, for example, gold or other transported value. it was then very clearly explained how to check not only the eur 10 000 cash cap carried by individuals entering and leaving but also transport by other means of transport. i therefore support the report and hope that it will make a significant contribution to the elimination of money laundering.
madam president, thank you to madam commissioner for staying with us this late. as you may know, i worked hard on the regulation on the recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, and i am happy to vote tomorrow for a directive on countering money laundering by criminal law. the achievements of the new rules, as mentioned also by commissioner avramopoulos (who is not here any more): money laundering activities will be punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of at least four years; additional sanctions and measures may be imposed by judges, together with imprisonment; aggravating circumstances will apply to cases linked to criminal organisations or for offences conducted in the exercise of certain professional activities; legal entities will also be held liable for certain money laundering activities and can face a range of sanctions. the compromise also includes clear rules to define which member state has jurisdiction and the cooperation between member states concerned in cross-border cases, as well as the need to involve eurojust. thank you for your work, and please do support this directive tomorrow.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr karas, you appreciated mr juncker's speech. i appreciated it, too. among other things, mr juncker said that we wanted a union of peace and prosperity. i'm interested in your opinion, because you haven't expressed your point of view just now. what do you think: can we have peace and prosperity without cohesion? do you agree with that cut from the cohesion fund? at least that is the commission's proposal for the next financial year, to reduce the cohesion funds. how will we have prosperity and how will we have understanding in the internal market?
president juncker, commissioner timmermans, i agree with what you have said: we need a united europe, a single currency, patriotism. what i did in the european parliament should be done by every mep. the european parliament these days is vibrant with romanian folk songs and dances. we need a europe of solidarity. i agree that we have to defend europe's external borders, but how can we defend them if romania, which is on europe's external border, is not a member of schengen? you, mr president, and you, ladies and gentlemen, must help romania, because it has fulfilled all the conditions for schengen membership. on the other hand, romania will take over the presidency of the council of the european union next year. for this, romania must be a schengen member and for this it must respect each country individually. a problem of one country, mr president, is in fact a problem of the whole of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate mr juncker's balanced and responsible speech. the need for solidarity is felt now more than ever in this time of challenge. but i am bitterly disappointed by mr weber's attitude, which, through his speech, only weakens the european project and increases the number of eurosceptics. a speech of division. it is the exact opposite of what we all want and exactly what president juncker has also stressed. mr weber, romania deserves to join the schengen area because romania has fulfilled all its obligations towards europe and romanian citizens have equal rights with other european citizens. the way you and other colleagues attack romania only weakens the romanian citizens' trust in the european project. unfortunately, mr weber, you have turned the european people into european populists.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to thank president juncker for his presentation. it's the one we need: unity, prosperity. as my colleagues have said, we also need to put this into practice. but i cannot help adding that, unfortunately, in the stage that we have reached so far, we have not been able to achieve that cohesion. i want to thank mr bullmann, who made it very clear that we must take account of the countries of the east. the countries of the east must be integrated and not stigmatised, as mr weber, who has been campaigning for a long time, is doing. our problem is to have this social cohesion, growth, prosperity, so that we can also have peace in the european union and equity. and that is why i hope, commissioner, that you - who know my country well - will take into account what my colleagues have said, namely: romania should join the schengen area and romania should be treated well, because, after all, we have the same ticket to this very beautiful club, the european union.
in writing. according to the statement by the president of the european commission, the european council in sibiu in may 2019 must provide a clear vision of the future of the european union. in this context, mr juncker made a key clarification: by the time of this european council in sibiu, member states should have reached a consensus on the size of the union budget for the period 2021-2027. he rejects the ideas of some heads of state who say that only after the elections for the european parliament (may 2019) can this consensus be reached. president juncker is right, because no european regulation on european policies (whether cohesion policy or agricultural policy, etc.) can be negotiated without a consensus on the size of the multiannual budget of the european union.
mr president, the control of cash entering and leaving the european union must be mandatory, real, urgent and, above all, systematic, and the amount of cash allowed to enter and leave the union should be reduced to less than eur 10 000, especially in situations where there is a suspicion of criminal activity. otherwise we cannot effectively combat terrorist financing, money laundering or organised crime, and customs cooperation must be real and fast to prevent criminals from cheating cash controls at the union's borders.
mr. president, every year we lose between 1.5 and 2.8 trillion dollars, or between 2 and 5 percent of the world's gross domestic product, just through money laundering. it's a black hole into which people's money and often their lives are drained. the new european directive on combating money laundering by criminal means seeks to correct some of these shortcomings. it removes the link between the primary crime, money laundering, and the predicate crime, which produces the dirty money that needs to be laundered by criminals. so we don't need a prior conviction or to know the perpetrator of the criminal activity that generated the dirty money. the directive also introduces exceptions to the principle of double criminality for all serious crimes, makes it possible to prosecute and convict money laundering, even if the criminal activity that generated the goods was committed in another country, and so on. so we'll have common crimes for all member states for money laundering.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the report on which the debate on hungary is based contains a number of politically based assessments of the situation, which is not surprising from a political body. however, this does not excuse the many untruths and factual errors found in the text. not only sargentini, but all 448 members of the house of representatives are certified by a report of this standard. as regards procedure, it would be much more successful to examine the application of fundamental values, human rights and the rights of minorities in all the member states on the basis of the same criteria and the same criteria, because this kind of slander can only be regarded as a politically motivated attack. why not look at the enforcement of minority rights in france or romania, the disproportionate electoral system in the united kingdom, the enforcement of religious freedom in greece, freedom of expression in spain, or the independence of the judiciary from politics and the secret services in romania? without a uniform standard and equal treatment, this procedure serves only political purposes.
mr president, china is concentrating some of its investment in the poorest economies of central and eastern europe and the balkans. why would you do that? because there are corrupt politicians and oligarchs there. sixteen countries, including eleven eu member states, are the trojan horse through which china is trying to control europe. 50 billion euros is being tapped by china in these countries for infrastructure, hi-tech and consumer goods financing. but china, we know, comes not only with money, it comes with corruption, it comes with dictatorial practices, it comes with human rights violations, it comes with, for example, the banning of the internet, especially in countries where the power is corrupt and, precisely, dictatorial. there he can make his way. that is why we need strict and effective control throughout the union, because otherwise we risk destroying china and fair competition in the market and democracy.
mr president, the eu is a community of values which, inter alia, places human rights at the centre of its relations with all third countries and strategic partners. still, it has little results to show for years of human rights dialogue with china. in china today, peaceful dissent is banned, freedom of religion and free speech are curtailed, and human rights defenders are being detained, prosecuted and imprisoned. tibetan identity and culture is relentlessly under attack and tibetans themselves are subject to arbitrary detention, forced disappearance, torture and ill treatment. xinjiang region is a frightening and dystopian experiment in which china’s decades-old repressive methods are reinforced by cutting-edge technology to create a true police state. today, nearly every family in the uighur diaspora has a relative or loved one who has been sent to re-education camps created to erode their religious, cultural and ethnic identities. what does europe do when hundreds of persecuted tibetans self-immolate themselves to show their people’s desperation to the world? it celebrates the eu-china tourism year.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you all very much for this excellent debate. i believe that the circular economy will be one of the mega-trends in the coming years in the world economy. the second mega-trend is based on artificial intelligence, and these two are the ones which will reshape our societies and economy in the coming years. that is why i’m so glad that, as today’s debate here in the european parliament has shown, this is one of the issues – the circular economy and the plastic strategy as part of it – which unite us. i don’t remember any other policy areas in this house in which the debate would have been so consensual. we share the same concerns and the same challenges, and we are trying, more or less, to find a solution from the same part of the world. so i really want to thank the house for its contribution to the circular economy. actually, i would like to congratulate the european parliament, and i hope that you congratulate the commission and the council also, on the fact that during this election period we have created a new policy which is called ‘circular economy’ in europe. that is the reason why europe is leading circular economy development in the world. the us is far behind us. china is the second best. talking about china, i participated in a high-level economic dialogue last june in beijing, an eu-china dialogue, and right after that we had the eu-china summit in beijing at which we discussed deepening our cooperation, especially on circular economy. we actually signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) with our chinese counterpart on enhanced cooperation between the eu and china on circular economy. plastics is one part of that. i was discussing with my counterpart the possibility that we might manage to create a joint or common quality standard for plastic packages in china and europe. if we did that, it would create an enormous market for the recycling of plastic waste. so there are lots of opportunities. today we are losing 95% of the value of plastic packages, and it simply doesn’t make any sense. plastic waste has a value and today we are losing most of this value, simply because we have not developed good policies to recycle plastic. only 6% of the plastic in our market is recycled plastic. so this means that there are huge opportunities, but we just need better policies which encourage raising the quality of plastics – and there, for instance, the quality standard for plastic packages is of the utmost importance. my final word is on the plastic levy, which is part of our multiannual financial framework proposal. i do hope that we get it through. if it is not possible to get it through, i really hope that member states could look at it as a national solution. taxation or levies can create healthy incentives to the economy. if we start taxing something it will create incentives to change behaviour, and if we put a levy on unrecycled recyclable plastic it is a good incentive for changing our business models. so once more i want to thank you for your contribution. let’s continue our good cooperation.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, from my little experience with debates in this house, i got the impression that it must have been one of the rare debates where all the members of this house are of the same opinion, no matter for which reason or from which political party they belong to, and i also want to thank you for this very fruitful discussion. we are all of the same opinion: there is the absolute need to reduce the plastic in our lives to a minimum level and to better use this in general useful material. it was also mentioned that much can be done at a regional level, for example with awareness-raising campaigns. well, yes, it seems so easy at first sight to reduce the plastic in your life, but if you have ever tried to buy fruit, vegetables or meat and milk products in a supermarket without buying loads of plastic, you would have found out that it is much harder to do this and to manage this than you at first think. let me assure you that the austrian presidency attaches great importance to the circular economy and treaty-related files such as the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. but we still have to do more, and i agree with many members who mentioned that. thus, the council looks forward to the results of the commission’s public consultations addressing the interface between chemical product and waste legislation, which is still ongoing until 29 october. to conclude, let me underline that the council is and will remain open for discussions and cooperation with you, honourable members, and of course with the commission and interested stakeholders, in order to define a path forward to a truly circular economy.
in writing. – the way plastics are produced, used and disposed of today has devastating environmental, climate and economic drawbacks and potential negative health impacts on both humans and animals. i very much welcome this report, which tackles successively the need to move from design for recycling to design for circularity, the creation of a genuine single market for recycled plastics, prevention of plastic waste generation, as well as innovation and global action. a stable internal market for secondary raw materials is indispensable for safeguarding the transition to a circular economy, therefore the obstacles this market confronts with have to be fully addressed, while laying the ground for a level playing field. indeed, the eu plastic strategy constitutes a necessary step forward in the eu’s transition towards a circular economy and as well as a crucial tool towards attaining the sustainable development goal to prevent and reduce marine litter. preventing the generation of plastic waste upfront and boosting our plastics recycling performance are both essential. moreover, i strongly share the opinion that the plastics strategy should also be used as a lever for encouraging new, smart and circular business, production and consumption models covering the entire value chain.
in writing. 26 million tonnes of plastic waste are produced in europe every year. about 79,000 tons of this waste end up in the oceans, covering an area of 1.6 million square kilometers. because of their spread over such a large area, 90 percent of seabirds ingest plastic particles. i believe that this report is very important and necessary, as the impact of plastic waste on flora, fauna and human health is clearly negative. the solutions used for the management of plastic waste in the marine environment need to be integrated into the global plastics strategy. i support the rapporteur and believe that clever solutions are needed, and that tax policies should stimulate the collection and recycling of waste. i also believe that, in order to achieve a significant level of results, the priorities should be prevention, then education and, not least, the sanctioning of those who do not comply with the legal provisions in this area.
in writing. according to the world health organization, antibiotic resistance has reached alarming levels worldwide, and anyone can be affected one day. if we don't act quickly to combat it, we risk going back to a 'pre-antibiotic/penicillin' era. unfortunately, due to antibiotic resistance, lung infections can be more often fatal, the risks of routine surgery increase, and immune-suppressing treatments, such as chemotherapy, can become too dangerous for patients. therefore, member states and the commission need to cooperate better with healthcare actors to ensure that antibiotics are prescribed only in severe cases and that pharmacies do not release antibiotics without a prescription. we cannot ignore the fact that in intensive animal husbandry, antibiotics are overused, which also causes antibiotic resistance in humans. in this respect, i believe that better cooperation with veterinarians and farmers is needed to solve this problem. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the commission on the initiative to fund through horizon 2020 a series of research for the discovery of new antibiotics, but also for the one health strategy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now come straight to the point. it was something that was very much anticipated -- very much anticipated by citizens, very much anticipated by businesses, especially small businesses. we often discuss in the sme intergroup what problems small firms have, what problems they have in working across borders. this portal is aimed at improving the functioning of the single market, and this is an objective of the commission. digitalisation is another objective of the commission. the portal solves this problem, and we have to say that we have wanted for a very long time that there is a "once only" principle. it would save a lot of money for the individual, for the business, but of course these savings eventually go to the state budgets, go to the eu budget. we also have to say that this administrative work is facilitated through the portal because, as it was said in the report and as the report presented here, there will be an english translation. of course, the states have a very great responsibility, and the commission also, to verify, to update the information, to be accurate information so as not to confuse, so as not to confuse, because that is not the purpose. the point is to help. there is another problem, and i am glad you have mentioned it, commissioner - it must be non-discriminatory, it must also address people with disabilities and it must be non-discriminatory for other citizens. there are a lot of petitions, and i think each of us gets these petitions about what a citizen does when he goes to another state. my colleague mr karas said earlier that our work seems abstract and we have to do something that reaches the citizen. well, this regulation will surely come and be well received by the citizens and, in the end, win everyone. to connect citizens and businesses, businesses with local authorities, central authorities and not only in the state where they reside, but also in other states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that none of us can deny that transport affects everything. it affects the economy, it affects yields, it affects productivity, it affects the environment, it affects, of course, the lives of people everywhere, in every country. even in the european union, unfortunately, we still find angry citizens, angry businesses, we have traffic jams, we have congestion in the urban environment. this report is very welcome and is, of course, based on the commission's communication 'europe on the move'. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who will be supporting this report. i hope it gets voted on tomorrow, because, yes, in the field of transportation we have to have a vision. we can't change infrastructure, whether it's roads, railways or any other means of transportation, the way we change furniture. that is why, commissioner, you have a very complicated problem. let's finally finish the mobility package and see how we make a long-term agenda and vision, because we need to adapt. we have a digitised europe and we need to adapt transport to these new technologies and catch up with modern, computer-aided cars. we have to switch from road to rail. there are many things, you know them very well. the important thing is to integrate them and solve them.
in writing. decarbonising transport and using new technologies offers opportunities for the future of mobility. the 'europe on the move' initiative enables european industries to become world leaders in innovation, digitalisation and decarbonisation. we hope that this initiative will help the strategy for the renewal of industrial policy in the european union. clean mobility is essential for our future, but it is equally important that we come to the aid of the companies that provide this mobility. i believe that the transition to the fundamental modernisation of mobility in the european union will have more challenges, but it must be socially fair, transport companies must not be burdened with administrative obligations and peripheral states must not be punished for cross-border operations. i support the idea of drawing a clear direction in support of transport investment, but also taking into account the possibilities of each member state, and i hope that in the future we can also focus on issues such as shell companies exploiting both legislative gaps and their own employees.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to the views expressed and i believe that we all have one thing in common, namely that we want to have a healthy agriculture. but it needs to be changed and i appreciate the rapporteur's views. let us think only of the single authorisation system at european union level called for in this report. we need to have a single system, commissioner, and we also need to monitor how this single authorisation system is implemented. and then mutual recognition doesn't work, and i think that's our job: when something doesn't work, to take action. on the other hand, research must continue, and it has been said here: when agriculture does not have a particular solution, we must find it and give it, because agriculture cannot stand still. we have a common agricultural policy and we are, after all, in competition with other markets. i would not like to import from third countries and kill european union agriculture, but at the same time we have to think about the harmful effects, and that is where we have to invest in research. you must work, commissioner, with the commissioner for agriculture and we must see if we have thought through the investments in this area well, because, yes, we cannot have new substances, we cannot have an efficient and competitive agriculture on the global market, if we do not also have a proper research result.
blue-card question. – dear friend, mr štefanec, i am addressing you as a close friend. why do you think all these lower—quality products were found only in central and eastern europe? do you not think that central and eastern european citizens should have the same rights as the citizens of other countries in the european union?
mr. president, not once has greed led to profiteering by deceiving consumers. we've seen this in the financial sector, and we're seeing the same story now in global brand commerce, particularly in the east. some transnational companies have found fertile ground in these eastern countries, where for decades consumers had no right to complain about the quality of their products. such practices must be prohibited, because european citizens in eastern european countries must have the same rights as other citizens in the rest of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add to what has been said here - and i agree with it, except for what mr schwab said - that last year our group, a group of colleagues from the czech republic, croatia, romania and italy, organized a conference - and i would like to raise an alarm. the big companies that were present at this debate about dual products made some absolutely ridiculous arguments. they raised the issue of taste -- as we heard here, every country has different taste -- and they raised the issue of purchasing power. dear colleagues, i come from the producers' area. if you want a specific taste in a specific country, you put it in a specific packaging and a specific label. if you take into account purchasing power, you bring into that country a first-class product with a specific packaging, and another second-class product with a different packaging. this is about deception and not just about whether we have second-class or first-class citizens. it is a fraud, it is unfair competition and, commissioner, you must be careful that these large companies do not give up, even if we adopt a regulation here. i want the amendment that the rapporteur has put forward, and that over 70 colleagues have signed, to be voted on, because we need consumer protection, we need equal treatment, we need to remove this fraud and money that is inappropriate for big companies.
mr president, i want to tell you that it is absolutely unacceptable to have lower quality, poorer products in central and eastern europe because that is the problem. and i am not just talking about such products, as were, for example, those for babies, for newborns, which is a very serious problem and should be looked at by other european union forums. i am also referring to - and it has been mentioned here - banking products, which are much worse and to the detriment of customers in central and eastern europe, insurance products, which are different in western europe and in central and eastern europe. at the same time, i want to tell you that there is a growing sense of discrimination that citizens in central and eastern europe feel, and i mention this here because we have among us the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mogherini. it is a serious situation, because citizens in central and eastern europe feel discriminated against, and this must stop. this is the case of romania and bulgaria with the schengen area, where we are kept in place for 12 years, without being accepted in this common space, although we meet all the conditions. this is an unacceptable situation, which must end as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there has been, there is and there will be a double standard if we do not vote massively in favour today in the plenary. and i say this because i am a rapporteur on this report and i have had meetings with those involved and we cannot accept explanations like 'manufacturers rely on the taste perception of consumers' or 'they adjust the recipes with cheaper ingredients just to align with the purchasing power of certain citizens'. commissioner, we were afraid to send you - 'i am afraid' my colleagues did not want to send you - very concrete amendments, but i ask you, if you have the opportunity, to set up or give powers to a department of yours to audit the production flow of those factories suspected of double standards. only then can we send out strong signals and take coherent action to stop this phenomenon, which is so offensive to all consumers in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, let me first welcome the high representative to our debate. i would add that our discussion on uganda was initiated by our political group because we felt that as parliamentarians we cannot remain indifferent when elected officials are arrested in such disturbing conditions. freedom to exercise its mandate freely and the independence of parliament are essential elements in a democratic society. unfortunately, this is not the case in uganda, where opposition representatives have been subjected to intimidation. the arrest of bobi wine and the three other mps is the most recent example. i believe that these actions must be condemned in the strongest possible terms and that the charges against them should be dropped. through our development cooperation with uganda, i believe we have an effective lever to try to improve the human rights situation.
mr president, i share the opinion that it is vital for ugandan democracy to ensure the independence of the country’s parliament as an institution and the independence of its members in pursuing their role as elected representatives. moreover, i support the call to launch a prompt, independent, impartial and effective investigation into the killing of mr yasiin kawuma and into reports of deaths and of the excessive use of force during protests. the authorities should guarantee, protect and promote fundamental rights, including the civil and political rights of uganda’s citizens, such as freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. i would also like to take the opportunity, in this chamber, to praise you, high representative, for your hard work and your smart work aimed at enhancing the influence of the european union and making it more visible in international affairs.
mr president, i strongly support the calls upon the government of myanmar and the security forces to put an end immediately to the ongoing violations against the rohingya people and other ethnic minorities in northern myanmar and to ensure that security and the rule of law prevail. the international community must adopt a united and strong stand on this situation. the european union and the member states have to take the lead in the un general assembly and the upcoming 39th session of the united nations human rights council and step up their efforts towards the establishment of an international mechanism to back investigations into alleged atrocity crimes and to seek justice by prosecuting those responsible for atrocity crimes. finally, as is emphasised in this resolution, thousands of rohingya people, many of whom are children, are internally displaced and in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and protection. against this background it is paramount to continue to call for immediate and unhindered access throughout the country for the delivery of humanitarian aid.
in writing. over 650,000 rohingya muslims have fled rakhine state in myanmar due to military intervention against the ethnic group. thousands of homes have been burned, and international organizations are struggling to cope with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. we are witnessing one of the most murderous campaigns in recent human history against a minority. the government of myanmar blames the arakan rohingya salvation army (arsa) for this whole disastrous situation. but according to local media, rohingya fleeing to neighboring countries say that behind these criminal attacks is actually the myanmar army that has been ordered to force them to flee the country. aung san suu kyi, who won the sakharov prize and the nobel peace prize, is currently the first state counsellor in myanmar. as a member of the government holding these distinctions, he has an obligation to convince his government to take urgent measures to defend this long-persecuted minority. the way the buddhist majority treat the estimated 1.1 million rohingya is unacceptable. i call on the myanmar military and security forces to immediately cease the killing and harassment of the rohingya people and to grant immediate access to humanitarian aid organisations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, although the 23—year—long rule of the cambodian people’s party (cpp) has led to significant economic development in cambodia, recent trends in the country’s political development are extremely worrying. the entrenchment of the cpp’s political dominance over the past few years has led to serious concerns for democracy. the last elections are very instructive in this regard, being widely considered by foreign observers as an undemocratic charade. and there are plenty of other concerns, too: the arrest and detention of kem sokha is just the latest in a series of crackdowns on political and other human rights. if the country’s government does not step back from dismantling democratic rights the eu would be well advised to launch an investigation under the mechanisms provided for in the framework of the everything but arms agreement and to consider reviewing the trade preferences cambodia enjoys.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you today, october 1, when the un has declared the day of older persons, to pay tribute to them, because we are here and each of us has in our country the things we have, because the third generation, the elderly people have existed, they have worked for us. today, in 1991, the united nations declared the day of older persons, and mr president, on behalf of parliament, let us pay tribute to these wonderful people.
mr president, the high representative has already spoken on this matter before our last session. we have already discussed this and we also adopted a resolution on this subject at the last part-session. i simply see this request as part of the election campaign of the socialists, who make opposition to israel a political stance. let's stop this, it's a shame!
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss with you the commission proposal for a regulation on health technology assessment (hta), which we adopted last january. the european parliament has shown very active and constructive engagement on this issue, leading to the adoption of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on 13 september by an overwhelming majority. first of all, i would like to congratulate ms cabezón ruiz on her timely work as rapporteur, as well as the shadow rapporteurs in the envi committee, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). the commission appreciates parliament’s overall support for its proposal, including a clear and ambitious product scope on medicinal products and medical devices. while time does not allow me to comment in detail on all the various amendments, i would at least like to mention briefly a few areas of modification. first, on the issue of the national use of european joint clinical assessments, the commission welcomes parliament’s strong support in ensuring that joint clinical assessments will be used by member states – and will not be repeated. the approach suggested by parliament, of adding some clarification as to the meaning of non-duplication, should address the concerns expressed by some member states in the council. this specifies that the legislation should not prevent member states from conducting complementary clinical assessments outside the scope of the joint clinical assessments. other amendments were aimed at further clarifying the proposal, as they stress that member states continue to be responsible for drawing their own conclusions on the added therapeutic value of health technologies in the context of their health system. the second general area i would like to comment on concerns the respective roles of the commission and the member states in the cooperation process. in this area, the amendments follow the spirit of the text as they aim to clarify the member states’ responsibility for conducting the joint work, and the supporting role of the commission. the third important area relates to the quality and transparency of joint work produced through eu cooperation. the proposed amendment should ensure the submission of appropriate evidence by technology developers as well as providing for high scientific quality, independence and transparency in the joint work. these were important objectives of the commission proposal. lastly, let me stress that the commission has serious concerns when it comes to the removal of harmonisation of national rules related to clinical assessments. this was one of the essential elements of our proposal, notably to ensure a high level of human health protection. in proposing such a harmonisation of national hta methodologies, we had actually responded to previous calls for action from the european parliament, including to your resolution on access to medicines, which called for the harmonising of hta tools and methodologies. i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission welcomes parliament’s constructive proposals and stands ready to continue to discuss and explore solutions to outstanding issues with the co—legislators. patients are at the heart of this proposal, which aims to deliver more efficient, transparent and effective eu hta, and this new model of eu cooperation has clear potential to facilitate better access to innovative health technologies. i therefore call on you to help make this initiative a success for the benefit of patients across europe. i now look forward to hearing your views.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, i welcome the new proposal aimed at strengthening eu cooperation on health and technology assessment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues in the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) for their close collaboration. as the rapporteur for imco, i have given particular interest to the fact that patients across europe are facing disparities and delays in accessing innovative treatments due to the fragmentation of hta systems. the imco opinion concentrated on improving the text in the area of the involvement of stakeholders in hta, and we underline that cooperation between ht authorities should be based on the principle of good governance, objectivity, independence and transparency. health technology developers should have the possibility to request an update on the clinical assessment when additional evidence from clinical practice becomes available. finally, as regards the subsidiarity principle, while the decision on whether a drug can be reimbursed or not must remain a competency of the member states, joint clinical assessments should be done at european level in order to shorten the hta process, and it should not prevent a member state from carrying out assessments on the added clinical value of the technologies as part of national or regional appraisal processes.
in writing. health technology assessment (hta) is a multidisciplinary process that synthesises information on the medical, social, economic and ethical aspects of the use of a health technology in a systematic, transparent, impartial and rigorous manner. this evidence-based process, which independently and objectively assesses a new or existing technology and compares it with other medical technologies and/or the current standard of care, will contribute to the formulation of safe and effective health policies that are patient-centred and aim at achieving the best cost-effectiveness. medical technologies include medicines, medical devices and medical procedures, as well as measures for the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of diseases. this regulation will contribute to diversifying the eu's options for improving access to medicines. we agree that this initiative will generate cost savings and resource optimisation, specialisation of the member states' bodies responsible for emf, increased involvement of patients in emf processes, and transparency of decision-making on the availability of medical technologies. in this context, the rapid implementation of the regulation would have a major impact on patients, public health and healthcare systems.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance industry fulfils a central role in the european economy, and european insurers play an important role globally. insurers are important long-term investors. this is why, in november 2017, the commission asked the european financial reporting advisory group, or efrag, to carry out a comprehensive impact assessment to inform the eu’s decision on a possible endorsement of the international accounting standards board’s international financial reporting standard 17 for insurance contracts. the commission specifically requested an assessment of the consequences of the standard on financial stability, taking into account the joint implementation of international financial reporting standard 9, on the competitiveness of the european insurance industry, on the impact on the insurance markets across europe, and on long-term investment. in the meantime, the commission launched two separate initiatives on the consequences of ifrs 9 on long-term equity investments and possible alternative methods to the mark-to-market valuation of long-term equity investment portfolios. in response to the commission’s request, efrag launched an impact assessment, including a field test of the ifrs 17 standard. the commission acknowledges that the scope of the field test is limited. this is a necessary trade—off designed to secure a realistic implementation timeframe ahead of the implementation date of 1 january 2021, set by the iasb. constituents have raised technical issues. efrag is currently considering these issues in its endorsement advice and has referred six implementation concerns identified as part of its impact assessment on the iasb. furthermore, with a view to sustaining the implementation of ifrs 17, the iasb sets up a transitional resource group on insurance contracts, which is expected to channel the interpretation and implementation issues arising from the standard. the iasb is expected to consider potential amendments to ifrs 17, as well as a request for deferral of the implementation date, at its october meeting. as part of the endorsement procedure laid down in the international accounting standards regulation, the eu is only empowered to endorse, refuse or carve out parts of a standard. the commission therefore encourages the insurance industry to report this implementation challenges exhaustively to the iasb transitional resource group, and to actively develop realistic solutions, if necessary by devising targeted improvements to ifrs 17 when outstanding issues cannot be resolved through the interpretation of ifrs 17. with a view to securing the consistent implementation of the standard following the endorsement decision, the european supervisory authorities and the european central bank participate in the endorsement process as observers. finally, as part of its fitness check on public reporting, the commission will specifically consider the potential inconsistencies between ifrs 17 and the existing eu reporting framework applicable to the insurance industry, including the insurance accounting directive and the introduction of the solvency ii prudential regime in 2016. the commission expects to report the findings from the fitness check by the second quarter of 2019, so as to secure its capacity to undertake any necessary action before the implementation date of ifrs 17 on 1 january 2021.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this motion for a resolution is about international financial reporting standards (ifrs) 17 for insurance contracts. these standards are a fundamental change in the accounting for insurance contracts, bringing the benefits of more consistency, transparency and comparability. this motion for a resolution is the result of the permanent teamwork set by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) after the financial crisis to focus on the reform of the ifrs. ifrs issues are no longer secondary business for econ and parliament. i would like to thank all members of this permanent team and to the other members of econ who contributed to this motion. in this motion for a resolution we underline the effort and costs needed in order to implement ifrs 17, which are significant. unfortunately, the signals that we have received from insurance companies that have started to prepare the implementation of the ifrs 17 confirm the difficulties of this implementation. the effort, time and cost in human resources have been underestimated. our technical adviser, the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag), has already identified several issues raised by ifrs 17 during the drafting of its endorsement advice, such as the level of aggregation, the contractual service margin, and reinsurance. the final endorsement advice is expected in december 2019. we regret again that no field test has been developed to examine the potential effects that ifrs 17 might have on financial stability and competitiveness in the financial markets. we ask the commission and efrag to consider carefully all the signals sent by the insurance sector and to deliver clear assurances in respect of these signals through the endorsement advice. the commission and efrag should assess whether the current implementation timeline of ifrs 17 is appropriate.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by welcoming the resolution on the international financial reporting standard ifrs 17, which is a response to the potential contradictions between it and european legislation on insurance contracts, and in particular between the new standard and the body of union legislation on prudential matters. on the one hand, i share the view that it is necessary to ensure that ifrs 17 does not represent a constraint for small and medium-sized enterprises, while at the same time advocating high-quality information and publication and including the sustainability of long-term objectives in line with the paris agreement. on the other hand, i believe that we must guarantee and support a more european public good-friendly ifrs 17 standard, with increased involvement of the european parliament in its implementation. therefore, i support the calls on the commission, the european supervisory authorities, the european central bank, the european systemic risk board and the financial reporting advisory group to closely monitor the implementation of ifrs 17 in the european union, prepare an ex post impact assessment by june 2024 at the latest, submit this assessment to the european parliament and act on the opinions of the european parliament.
madam president, i would first like to welcome this initiative, which has the potential to open new horizons in multiple european sectors and to thank madam kaili, whom i’m also collaborating with in another similar file. i am responsible for the opinion of the committee on international trade for the file on blockchain and forward-looking trade policy. blockchain and dlts have definite potential and this has been shown via recent projects around the world. i really believe that the future will be better with the help of these technologies. but at the same time we need to be pragmatic and keep in mind also the vulnerabilities and imperfections of the system like the threat of hacking, risks to cybersecurity and the environmental impact. consequently, we need a more environmentally friendly system and a less energy consuming one, but also one that addresses technological risks and potential security challenges. the future competitiveness and capacity for innovation of european industry could be closely related to the adoption and implementation of distributed ledger technologies. sectors such as energy, food, health, transport and manufacturing could be significantly reshaped by these emerging technologies. what i consider crucial for these emerging promising technologies to flourish in the european union is to adopt an innovation—friendly approach and not to rush prematurely into regulation and potentially hamper innovation. further, to ensure companies and start—ups simplified access to, and enhance, financing within eu financial instruments. the eu needs to create an ecosystem where innovation by companies and start—ups are encouraged. i highlight the major potential to integrate dlts with other technologies such as the internet of things, artificial intelligence and quantum computing. moreover dlts, with enhanced cooperation between the commission and member states, have the potential to improve monitoring, security and verification mechanisms and to fight unlawful payments, facilitate anti—money laundering policies and detect misappropriations of assets. as regards smart contracts, it is true that they can be a key enabler of decentralised applications, but at the moment my opinion is that this technology is not mature enough to be considered legally enforceable. i close by reiterating how extremely important it is for the member states to play an active role and strengthen the collaboration with the commission within the recently—established european blockchain partnership which, from my perspective, is the cornerstone of the union’s future innovation capacity and global competitiveness.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the european union today faces many challenges, whether it is the unequal effects of the development process between urban and rural areas, generated in particular by the difference in living standards between the two areas, the difference in digitalisation and automation, or whether it is the movement of people from mountainous or isolated rural areas, areas that are otherwise vulnerable and due to the continuing loss of biodiversity and the impact of climate change. access infrastructure, transport, public health and education are essential elements for any community, and the lack of these in mountain rural communities further aggravates the irreversible process of depopulation. i therefore believe that investments in the provision of these services must be a priority for any public authority. at the same time, the natural potential of rural, mountainous or less accessible areas represents an invaluable added value. therefore, encouraging local economic development models by exploiting the natural resources they possess or by supporting short food chains would make a significant contribution to the economic development of these communities. i would stress that the new proposal for the common agricultural policy places particular emphasis on attracting young people to agriculture and developing smart village models. however, we must bear in mind that young people are attracted to rural areas only if they have at least access to high-speed internet networks and adequate digital services to enable them to implement innovative projects, and here the role of cohesion policies is decisive and, i would even say, decisive. the initiatives of local communities to involve themselves in local development projects, we must acknowledge, have had remarkable results, the partnerships of local authorities with the private sector, civil society, the establishment of local action groups have led to the development of integrated strategies for responsible community development. the leader rural development programme has also proved to be a highly effective tool for community development. however, i believe that much more could be done, and i appreciate that local authorities must be actively involved in increasing the attractiveness of these areas and the capacity for integration of newcomers, taking advantage of the tools at their disposal, encouraging exchanges of experience and implementing as many actions as possible to attract new residents. last but not least, the expertise capacity of local action groups needs to be supported by more comprehensive funding. i also appreciate that there is a need for much more substantial synergy between the cohesion funds and those of the common agricultural policy, namely those of pillar ii. i believe that this synergy is not being sufficiently exploited today and that more efforts are needed from the authorities in this regard. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again the importance of ensuring adequate financing for both the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, coupled obviously with efficient investment in these areas and, of course, with simplifying the process of absorbing funds.
one of the main challenges facing the european union is the phenomenon of uneven territorial development, which is a key question for the population retention capacity of rural areas and thus for the future of these areas. today, the poles of development are clearly big cities that want to compete globally with other developed centers of the world. however, in the meantime, special attention should be paid to rural areas, which are home to a wide range of people who have the same expectations of development as their urban counterparts. in many member states, the problem is that development policies that exacerbate inequalities, without the outstanding statistical indicators of large cities, allow the rural areas to be left behind. a regional development policy is needed that pays particular attention to direct investment in rural areas and balances the existing development gaps according to local needs.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you once again for this debate tonight. it has been very interesting for me. i have heard many different opinions and interventions, but with one common feature: our passion for the development of rural, mountainous and remote areas. you know very well that two years ago we were all desperate about brexit, about the gap left by the second largest donor. we thought about the idea of having this cohesion policy just for the less—developed regions and it was my battle to defend this policy as a policy for all regions. as i said in the beginning, my motto has always been ‘no region left behind’. i share a lot of your views. two weeks ago, i went to eastern croatia. we made a plan for construction after the war. last week i was in the mezzogiorno, the less-developed region of italy. this week i will be in greece. so i know very well all these tragedies. i see them everywhere, especially in the old villages with ageing populations and people living in sparsely populated areas. i know very well that young people are leaving, in my own family also. this is also one side of the coin, the liberty we achieved in 1989 – to have the right to move and the right to choose where to work and where to live. but i think it is our duty at european level, and also at the national level, to do whatever it takes to encourage people to remain in their villages. your work is a very useful input for me and for us to discuss the post—2020 territorial agenda. you know that our proposal is now in your hands, in the hands of the european parliament and the council as co—legislators, and i am looking forward to the start of the trilogue. my wish, and i think it’s very important for all of us, for all the countries, for all the regions, is to have an agreement during the romanian presidency, because it is very important to start implementing the programmes from day one of the programming period, from 1 january 2021. we have had a lot of delays, and we have to learn from the lessons of the past, as the main reason for the delays we have now is the late adoption of the legislation for 2014—2020. i mentioned some of the tools. i think we have to have synergies between rural development, the erdf and other instruments, an integrated approach to local development, the territorial tools of cohesion policy and, as i said, the smart villages initiative, which is very important to me and commissioner hogan. we know very well that we cannot encourage young people in the 21st century to go where there is no broadband, where we don’t have water and where we don’t have electricity, so it’s very important to bridge this gap. we should also remember diversity. some of you come from very rich rural areas, some of you live in very poor rural areas, so it is obvious that one size does not fit all, and we need a diversity of tools. i don’t think we should talk about money because it is not about money. the fact that we don’t have an agenda for rural, mountainous and remote areas does not mean that we don’t care about these areas. you know very well that in 2016 we had this core declaration to mainstream rural development and the new action for smart villages in 2017, which was a joint initiative by commissioners hogan, bulc and i to develop a long—term vision and an integrated strategy for rural areas. also under cohesion policy there is the possibility to modulate the eu core financing rate to take into account areas with natural or demographic handicaps such as mountains and, of course, the northern sparsely populated areas, which already benefit from higher aid intensity. however, i very much encourage you to talk with your governments because we have national programmes and regional programmes, and it is up to the governments how much they will invest in the regions. in our regulation that you have on the table, for 2014-2020, 75% of the money is going to the less-developed regions, and for 2021-2027, 80% – more than today – will go to less-developed regions. as i have stressed already, it’s very important to fighting poverty and i think it was right to raise this point, because we aren’t tackling migrants or nationalities, we are tackling human beings and their lives, and it is very important to have a special strategy for these vulnerable people and for fighting poverty. ms ward and ms vallina raised an issue that is very close to my heart, that of gender equality. this is not only an issue only for rural areas. i have launched a campaign for more women in public administration in general, but especially in local administration, because everywhere it’s a tragedy. you don’t see women running to be mayors of villages or local councillors, so i think it’s very important to raise awareness and to encourage women to run for local administration. the idea from mr van nistelrooij is a very beautiful idea. i started my mandate with the adoption of the urban agenda under the dutch presidency and i have to pay tribute once again to the mayor of amsterdam, mr van der laan, for his passion to have this urban agenda in place. it will be very emotional and beautiful if we end our mandate with a pact for rural areas during the romanian presidency. let’s work together to put all our ideas in place, and see how we can adapt to all the diversity that we have in these areas. thank you once again. it has been, as always, a pleasure to be with you tonight.
madam president, as we have already seen in the previous debate, the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy are the cornerstones of the european union. solidarity, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and the removal of social disparities would not be possible without both policies being strongly funded and supported by deeds rather than words. the planned cuts in these policies are a consequence of brexit. moreover, they are also generated by the inability of some member states to understand the need to contribute to the budget of the european union at a level that enables it to meet new challenges, ensure the safety and security of citizens, a sustainable compact and an effective cohesion policy. without financial resources, farmers will not be able to provide cheap, quality food, and many will be forced into bankruptcy. at the same time, the gaps between the regions of the european union will widen significantly and depopulation in certain areas would be massive. that is why countries like austria and the netherlands, and others, must understand that a strong european union cannot exist without substantial funding.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as of 1 january 2019, romania will hold the rotating presidency of the european union. thus, under the romanian presidency, the budget of the european union for the period 2021-2027 will be voted. i note and appreciate that cohesion policy is for the first time in the history of the european union the portfolio with the largest amount allocated in the future budget, namely 373 billion euro, and romania, bulgaria and greece have foreseen an increase of more than 10% of the cohesion funds allocated compared to the current amounts. it is an important signal to the citizens of the states that joined later and where the so-called multi-speed europe plan was not very well received. in this respect, i welcome the european commission's initiative, which sends a positive signal: that despite all the discussions over the past few years on the future of europe, we are determined to live and develop together, with as few differences as possible between member states. europe together is and must remain our objective.
madam president, the prime minister of romania was asked to be heard in the european parliament, considering that the rule of law was violated in romania as a result of the intervention of the gendarmerie at the last protest in bucharest, which, attention, was unauthorized and where some of the protesters forced their way into the government building. two similar events took place this weekend: on friday, september 28, in brussels, belgium, protesters forced their way into parliament and attacked the security forces, who responded with tear gas, batons and water cannons, and the second, on saturday, september 29, in barcelona, spain, with the security forces using batons to silence protesters who were disrupting an authorized demonstration. but no one will ask the prime ministers of the two countries to be heard in the european parliament on the simple grounds that such acts of restoring public order using batons, tear gas and water cannons are legal under european and national law. stop, madam president and honourable members, with the double standard in the european union: what is legal in belgium and spain is legal in romania. i don't want any more double talk based on just the name of the state in question.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i draw attention to a serious fact: the tendency of some members of the european parliament to make romania a target of an electoral campaign, a means to a personal political goal, linked to the forthcoming european elections, is unacceptable. romania is a stable country, where the laws are respected and the institutions function. romania is a country with a political class and citizens deeply attached to european values and the european project. these are indisputable facts. that is why i am calling on my colleagues in romania, from all political groups, not to accept the denigration of their country, not to participate in such actions that can damage the image and credibility of the country at the european level and to react to unfair attacks against romania. stop persecuting romania, because this only serves the enemies of the european project who want to see the european union divided!
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, colleague if you are listening to me you have praised the austrian presidency. can you tell me whether, since the austrian presidency took over, you have noticed any progress, any concrete action, in support of the principles of the european union: solidarity, democracy, unity, a concern to keep europe united?
madam president, commissioner, minister, of course we are talking about what happened in salzburg. i am interested in what you will do in the future, in the next council, because a lot of things have been said here from all the political groups. europe is in crisis. we cannot ignore the precedent created by brexit. what are we doing? do you not think, commission, council, that we need to reset the working methodology? don't you think that it's already the perception of european citizens in certain countries that there is discrimination, that there is a definite different democracy, that there is no equal treatment? look, tomorrow we can't talk at a debate about my country. this has never happened before. so commissioner timmermans did not answer any of the questions last night. what kind of democracy is this? what do we explain to the citizens of our country? i believe that you must bring not just words, but deeds: how you make the european union project a project for the future. and i also think we need to have the same unit of measurement and we need to take into account the sources through which we get our information.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite increased awareness and understanding of this issue, human rights violations in the context of business are unfortunately still a very topical problem. as highlighted in the resolution accompanying the oral question, the increasing internationalisation of business activities and supply chains is strengthening the role of business in respecting human rights, while leading to a situation where the establishment of international rules and cooperation has become necessary. i strongly support the development of a binding international treaty on business and human rights and insist on the need to continue to invite the european union and the member states to participate constructively in this process and to ensure a coherent position on this issue at all levels, in all policies, relations and trade agreements, while including rules on corporate liability for human rights violations in trade and investment agreements.
in writing. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. corporations, being one of the main actors of economic globalisation and international trade, are obliged to respect all applicable laws and international treaties in force, including human rights. unfortunately, there is no comprehensive approach to corporate liability for human rights violations, and victims of human rights violations involving multinational enterprises often face numerous obstacles in accessing remedies, including judicial remedies. the involvement of the eu and member states, in collaboration with partners, is key to putting the un guiding principles on business and human rights into practice. both the eu and its member states must contribute actively and constructively to the speedy development of a legally binding international instrument regulating the activities of transnational corporations and other enterprises of transnational character, in order to prevent and remedy human rights violations and to ensure the necessary remedies.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the war in yemen has been raging for more than three years now. it has taken a tremendous toll on this country, where millions are suffering the consequences of the conflict. we see images of yemenis eating tree leaves and parents forced to watch their babies starve to death. this is completely unacceptable. the figures are appalling: almost 18 million are literally starving. the un recently warned that they may be unable to prevent a massive famine – unless the security situation improves. the escalation of hostilities along the coast has worsened an already disastrous situation: civilians and civilian infrastructure continue to be targeted, in clear violation of international humanitarian law. more than half a million people have been displaced from hodeidah, where several hundred thousand more remain trapped. public salaries in the northern part of the country, controlled by the houthi, have not been paid in years. instead of going to school, children are being recruited to fight on the frontlines. with the collapse of basic services, yemenis have been deprived of health facilities and drinking water. this has led to the worst cholera epidemic ever recorded in the country. the war has also disrupted imports of basic commodities, driving prices up and pushing more and more yemenis into poverty and destitution. smuggling and war profiteering are thriving on the back of a suffering population. lawlessness has allowed terrorist groups like al-qaeda or daesh to gain a foothold in the country. the war has also had an impact in the region. saudi arabia has become a regular target of missiles coming from houthi-controlled areas. maritime traffic between the red sea and the indian ocean has been affected, as several ships have been targeted by rockets. but perhaps more importantly, the war has increased regional tensions. indeed, yemen remains a catalyst for instability and regional turmoil. there is no easy fix for yemen. a political settlement will require concessions from all sides, continued banking and diplomatic pressure from the international community. that is why we believe it is more crucial than ever at this time to lend as much support as possible to the united nations and their special envoy, martin griffiths. let me thank him for his attempt to resume consultations in geneva among the parties. it is unfortunate that the houthi did not attend. as griffiths put it, resumptions of talks are always a delicate, fragile moment. our support, from the eu and our member states, is now truly essential. we will therefore continue to call on the parties to remain engaged in the un-led process in view of achieving a comprehensive political settlement to this really unacceptable war. we will not just ‘declare’ our political commitment. we are looking into ways to provide concrete support to the un special envoy team in areas identified by mr griffiths. the idea is to add value to his ongoing work and complement his efforts where needed. furthermore, the european union is already contributing eur 173 million of development assistance to several projects in yemen, ranging from rural resilience, health and nutrition, food security and support to displaced persons. these projects are meant to lay the groundwork for a stable yemen by supporting crisis-affected communities and helping maintain the basic functions of local authorities. likewise, the eu has allocated eur 233 million in humanitarian aid alone through our partner organisations since the beginning of this conflict in 2015. our humanitarian aid has been directed to the areas most in need and we have continued our advocacy efforts in international fora, even last week during the un general assembly. in this regard, we believe that the mandate of the group of eminent experts set up by the un high commissioner for human rights should be renewed. its last report points to violations of international humanitarian law committed by all sides. accountability is crucial, not only to a real resolution of the conflict, but also to an effective and inclusive reconciliation process in yemen. the people of yemen have suffered for too long. building a more cooperative regional dynamic is in everyone’s interest – and it is becoming more and more urgent. this is my view, dear colleagues, and thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – the consequences of the ongoing conflict on yemen have passed the critical level. casualties amongst civilians, destruction of civil infrastructure, which includes schools, medical facilities, water systems and transport routes, and the horrific humanitarian situation can no longer be accepted. we supported the efforts made by the special envoy, mr martin griffiths, and we consider it essential for him to have access to all relevant parties in yemen. the eu’s intention is to help the yemeni population, and this is why we need to support the efforts in identifying a political solution as soon as possible using dialogue and negotiations. we need to understand that all parties in the conflict must comply with their obligations under international law. all parties must attend the negotiation meeting; they need to end the recruitment of children; they need to seize the current escalation and effectively involve the united nations. we can no longer accept the iran-backed houthi rebels’ systematic refusal to engage in dialogue. you must strongly call on iran to cease any military support and push houthi rebels to an effective dialogue. we must also strongly condemn the launch of ballistic missiles by the houthi rebels against the kingdom of saudi arabia and the use of sea mines. the european people’s party is deeply concerned by the reports of the denial of freedom of religion and aggression towards the bahá’i faith by the houthi rebels. we cannot endlessly repair the damage without understanding and addressing the causes, and we can no longer ignore the obligation to ensure effective, impartial and independent investigations into all alleged violations of human rights and humanitarian law. as the commissioner has already said, the eu will continue to provide humanitarian aid and put pressure on all parties for a political solution.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, mr commissioner, it was difficult to imagine in our debate in the first part of this year that the already dramatic humanitarian situation in yemen could further deteriorate. sadly, we are here today to remind the international community that yemenis are dying every day under indiscriminate bombing and shelling, and our so-called economic partners on both sides are contributing to this violence. the brutal and bloody long-term conflict in yemen is about to get even worse, as the violent and indiscriminate attacks and blockade on civilians continue. as a consequence, today 75% of civilians are already completely dependent on humanitarian aid, and more than 17 million people are facing food insecurity. the saudi-led blockade on all houthi controlled territories since november 2017 prevents all other imports from entering the territory. the humanitarian aid is proving to be insufficient, and the houthi rebels have themselves blocked the delivery of humanitarian aid. considering the dire humanitarian situation on the ground and the grave risk of further regional destabilisation, the s&d group calls on all relevant actors to put pressure on the coalition to halt any further assaults and to allow humanitarian aid to reach the people in need in order to stop any further starvation and death. we condemn the violent attacks on all sides, condemn the belligerence and call on the proxies, including saudi arabia and iran, to immediately stop all armed forces and militias under their control, as well as to prevent any indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population. finally we call for an investigation into war crimes.
mr president, i think that some figures speak very clearly: 22 million yemenis are in need of humanitarian aid and protection, and 18 million are food insecure. they lack everything: food, medicine and education. moreover, the impasse following the failure of the geneva negotiations, in which the houthis simply refused to take part, only increases the number of dead, wounded and displaced. in this context, the european union continues to provide development assistance to yemen, giving priority to interventions aimed at stabilising the country, and i commend commissioner stylianides for his commitment and action. however, there is another important area where we could play a key role: the diplomatic field. i really believe that the european union is particularly well placed to steer things. we must therefore continue to call for a return to the negotiating table and encourage all parties to engage genuinely in political dialogue, under the auspices of the united nations, of course. it is now of paramount importance that this commitment translates into de-escalation in the various conflict zones, including hodeidah, and safe, swift and unhindered access for the flow of commercial and humanitarian supplies.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by miriam dalli, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission performance standards for new passenger cars and new light commercial vehicles as part of the union's integrated approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles, and amending regulation (ec) no 715/2007 (recast) (com (2017) 0676 c8-0395/2017 2017/0329 ((cod)) (a8-0287/2018).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that we must set our targets so that the union can meet its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at the same time, it is important to enable and create the framework for european industry to innovate and maintain its place as a world leader in this field. but we must first of all take account of the social aspect, so that this process does not negatively influence employment, and the goals and objectives we set ourselves must be realistic and, at the same time, reflect the real technological and development aspects. the proposals to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by imposing targets on car manufacturers are indeed ambitious, but the question is: are they realistic? because we also have to consider how the market relates to the changes we impose, to the purchasing power of the citizens of the european union, but we also have to not ignore infrastructure. i believe that the commission's proposal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions - which is an ambitious one - can be improved so that we can achieve the environmental objectives on the one hand and see the negative impact on the car industry and reduce it on the other.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report. as a follow-up to the commission's proposal to amend the vat directive to give member states more flexibility in setting the vat rate, i welcome the amendments proposed in the report as they emphasise that the reduced rate should benefit the final consumer first, while pursuing social and environmental objectives. therefore, i share the view that the reduced rate and the exception should only apply to products with a positive impact on the general interest with clear cultural, social or environmental benefits and should never be applied to harmful or luxury products. as regards small and medium-sized enterprises, i support the commission's proposal to create a comprehensive, multilingual and publicly accessible eu vat information portal, where businesses and consumers can quickly and efficiently obtain accurate information on the vat rate in the different member states, including the goods or services concerned which benefit from reduced rates or exemptions.
mr president, in the field of taxation it seems that nothing that is transitional remains transitional and lasts for a very long time, and the vat regime in the european union has been transitional for too many years. this regime favours tax evasion and at the same time constitutes a huge bureaucracy if member states have to and want to exchange that information to identify those who are evading. that is why i believe that the proposals made by the commission and the amendments tabled by our colleagues in econ represent a good step forward. such proposals as, for example, the new concept of vat certification and the new intervals proposed for the variation of vat rates in the member states represent not only a simplification of the vat regime in the european union but also concrete steps towards that definitive regime which we want to achieve for vat in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 3 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission and council statements on the rise of neo-fascist violence in europe (2018/2869 ((rsp)).
stalin, as far as i remember, was a communist. (interjection from mr coburn: ‘... then so was hitler and so was mussolini!’) i know.
i wonder where he is.
this should not require us to ask mr borghezio to repeat the phrase, but in any case i would appeal to you to mind your language and not to use bad language, if that was the case.
mr sośnierz, please mind your speech. we should not launch accusations or anything like that. if you want to say something, say something about the subject, but do not say that the other side was not, because otherwise we will transform this important debate into an exchange between various different positions. we don’t like that.
mr jurek, i understand the positions of everybody here, but we have to address the topic at issue here. i would conclude with the reflection of a soviet scientist, who said that history is very difficult to predict. so let’s not get into that. (end of catch—the—eye procedure)
i was just wondering whether, if you do not communicate in the normal way, but only through gadgets, where you can be very loose with language, and you then meet the real people, is there not an extension of everything you allowed yourself to say to them in that space, which could be translated into physical violence? so there might be this too, but you have a point in that sense.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the next part—session in october in strasbourg. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral reply on the deprivation of voting rights in the eu by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000069/2018 - b8-0039/2018) (2018/2676(rsp)) and the question with request for an oral reply on the deprivation of voting rights in the eu by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000070/2018 - b8-0040/2018) (2018/2676(rsp)).
mr president, the fundamental right to be able to vote in elections is the most important of political participation rights. democratic participation at elections confers legitimacy to those exercising public power and their decisions affecting citizens. democratic participation is also linked to the right of free movement in the european project. nowhere was this more visible than in the brexit referendum, in which more than 700 000 british expat citizens were not entitled to vote, although it was clear from the beginning that, out of all citizens, it was their lives that the referendum result would affect the most. citizens who move to and reside in another eu member state should not be stripped of their democratic rights in their country of origin. the council and the member states are well advised to take steps to ease the conditions of disenfranchisement and to protect the right of eu nationals living in another eu member state to vote in elections and referenda taking place in their home country. (applause)
the debate is closed.
on behalf of the ecr group. dragnea and tariceanu are now attacking the european union because their lie and fraud have been exposed, but romanians want europe, democracy and freedom. now the romanians are suffering because of this government that is working against them. romania is not a bunch of corrupt politicians, romania is every honest person, wherever they are in the world - and many have left the world precisely because of corruption, but they want to go home. the government has been beating its own citizens with sticks and grenades. the images of august 10th do not lie. the independent press is also threatened by the order of a criminal sentenced to ten years in prison for money laundering. dragnea decided to prepare laws to bury the independent press. justice is the first enemy of the psd and alde. they changed the justice laws to control the magistrates, they changed the criminal codes to get rid of crime and block investigations. psd and alde are now using some protocols between the intelligence services and the prosecutor's offices to get the sentences reviewed and to avoid prison, because an amnesty law will take people to the streets. romanians protest, romanians are not inert. it's a living people. romania is a living people and will always fight back to defend its democracy.
mr president, mr first vice president, madam prime minister, i would like to make a first statement that must be very clear to everyone. romania does not accept to be a bargaining chip under any conditions and with any other country. we understand that there have been concerns about certain member states, but we ask - and this was also underlined by the first vice-president of the european commission - that each country be judged on its own merits. we in romania are trying at this moment to make all the things that belonged to a dark past, a perverted judicial system, former ministers of justice who turned prosecutors into their own servants, those who managed to turn a respectable institution of the judge into feared persons, prosecutors who were forced to make files on command, become an independent system, controlled only by the superior council of magistracy and in which no one, ever, is blackmailed. everyone in romania must understand one thing: justice is only done in the courtroom and never on the basis of protocols, secret services and hidden agreements, and i welcome this position of the european commission. everyone should know that the times that were can never return, with all the desperate efforts made by these true romanians in the room, such as preda and macovei, and who have managed to turn romanian justice into a disgrace. we will not tolerate these things, we will change them and we will change them properly, in accordance with democratic norms. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. this is part of what the fake news campaign is all about. did anyone tell you that in the last five years, 98% of those sent, the faces, for corruption files in the courts have been acquitted? have you been told that all these people who were reported to the european commission were found not guilty? in these six months alone, over 200 acquittals by the national anti-corruption directorate. anti-corruption for us means that the guilty pay and the innocent do not pay. injustice to one, injustice to all. that's our motto.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will say at the outset that in romania, in recent years, political decisions have been imposed which have violated some european standards regarding the rule of law. but these decisions were taken by the leader of the psd, liviu dragnea, to solve his personal problems, and all those who support him, here and in the country, know this very well. but i must stress to the european parliament that i will not agree to the romanians being punished for what politicians do in their country. no, we must not adopt sanctions that will affect the innocent citizens of romania, who never supported the efforts of liviu dragnea. if his colleagues in the government are complicit, then the measures must be taken against them and not against the citizens of romania. i therefore call on my social democratic colleagues, alde, to take a stand against the romanian colleagues who support the approach of their political leader. let's criticize and sanction the guilty politicians, not the citizens of romania. romania is a pro-european country. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
what is the question regarding romania? what is the question referring to romania?
mr president, as a pro-european people we are very constructive and i propose to you, mr timmermans, that we declare today, in the plenary of the parliament in strasbourg, that you do not need any authorization and no respect for the law to protest in europe. this is the democratic standard you impose in bucharest. yes, we have certainly done little to combat high-level corruption, and i would suggest, mr timmermans, that you ask certain member states to stop providing in their legislation the possibility of bribing to obtain contracts abroad. indeed, officials who allegedly bribed bucharest have never been seen to be brought before our courts. of course, ladies and gentlemen, the double standard is becoming a reality today, in my view, in this debate in strasbourg. it does not bring any more cohesion, it does not bring any more europe and it is proof of a lack of analysis, a lack of objectivity and a lack of standards. i would ask the european commission, although it is mandatory, why in recent years have we not had any sort of analysis of the situation of corruption in all the member states of the european union? or do you just like these three?
mr president, for the catch-the-eye procedure, it is not possible ...
mr president, with all due respect to you and to this institution, i would have liked you to have been as firm with your colleagues there who have been shouting the whole time, and mr preda is a disgrace to this institution and the way he is unable to respect those who are here and this institution.
mr president, i cannot help but notice that you are very biased towards your political group. you forgot that there's no blue card in catch the eye, but you had to warn mrs. nicolai that you're talking from your feet. look, i'm speaking from the floor, and i ask you nicely, represent the european parliament there and not your political group. you have to be impartial and respect all the members here, not just yours.
mr president, you said when we picked up the cards at speaking time that you couldn't give both catch the eye and card. i had a card, you didn't give it to me and you didn't even give me the catch the eye, saying that you decide whether (is this democracy? let's get it straight!), you decide whether to give cards at catch the eye and not at speaking time. i don't understand the way of the leadership and i'll write a letter to the speaker of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for two years now the romanian people have been demonstrating in the streets in defence of european values. people are asking for justice, people are asking for justice, people are asking for the rule of law and people are asking for good governance and people are taking to the streets, with the flag of the european union and people are asking: what can the european union do for us? and our answer, mr timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, must be a convincing one. we must stand with the romanian people, together defend european values, together defend the european way of life. that's what the romanian people want and that's what we have to do. we stand with the romanian people. we must also know that people are protesting against a government that is controlled by the president of the social democratic party, who is a convicted criminal, and when criminals make laws, laws are good for criminals, they are not good for people. that is why, mr timmermans, you, the european commission and we, the parliament, stand with the people, we must stand with them, we must defend european values and good governance.
mr president, the debate on the rule of law in romania was eagerly awaited by romanians. they expected the european union to help them get rid of the odious system that the prime minister is exposing here. to their bitter surprise, instead of help, the romanians receive insults and threats that if they do not immediately return to the hateful system they are now trying to escape, they will be penalized. romanians, among the most pro-european citizens, do not deserve this, because the real romanians are the many, who by the massive vote granted to the coalition in 2016 asked it to return them their democratic rights stolen by a politicized justice, controlled by the secret services, and not the few who disinformation.
in writing. a distinction must be made between a bad government and a good people. it is very important that this debate keeps romanians close to the european union, even if the government's mistakes seem to keep us further and further apart. there are big mistakes, the worst of which by far is the gassing and beating of peaceful protesters, for which the government must leave as soon as possible, by a motion of censure. however, romania should not be helped to reach the situation of hungary. i do not think that there is any justification for discussing the activation of article 7, although some politicians in the government seem to be interested in heating up the exchange of replies with the european union, because this distracts attention from their own mistakes. romania should have been in the schengen area, already fulfilling all the technical conditions, and the fact that it is not a member of a political indecision is a subject that constantly feeds the critical current towards the european union and, unfortunately, is a subject that has remained unclear. this is a political reality that is particularly exploited by the eurocynics, that is, by the eurosceptics for their own sake, who criticize the european union in order to distract from their own responsibility.
in writing. the debate on the rule of law in romania was included in the ep agenda at the insistence of the epp group, in an artificial way, to politically balance the parliament's resolution on hungary, which voted in favour of activating sanctions against this country. on 1 october, in the libe committee of the ep, in the speeches of some meps from the epp, ecr, greens etc., various situations in romania were presented - many not in line with reality - regarding the independence of the judiciary, the protests of 10 august and the referendum to be held in romania on 6-7 october this year. there have been interventions for and against romania, but it is obvious to any informed observer that a political goal is being pursued, namely the weakening of the romanian social democrats and the government led by them. it is a political scenario of blowing up the romanian government and creating an image of instability in romania at the international level, which benefits the european right-wing forces. why debate only the situation in the countries of central and eastern europe? is the aim to create a new divide between western and eastern europe? is a multi-speed europe to the future eu's advantage? certainly not, because the discrepancies between western and eastern europe will increase.
in writing. in this atypical debate organized only for romania, i note that those who criticize the rule of law and justice in romania do so on the principle of the "grain of salt". if you don't have good justice laws? i ask for an objective and comparative analysis of what is happening in all the member states. you have stirred up a wave of reaction against europe! is that what you want? romania is a sovereign and independent state and respects its own constitution and the will of the romanian citizens. the commission notes that the sri has not provided any evidence that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that the sri has been able to establish that sri has been able to establish that sri. what information sources does the commission use to give verdicts on romania? to increase the eu's credibility, you must respect all states and not use double standards in assessing member states. i ask the commission to transparently report on how you analyse the functioning of the rule of law and corruption in all member states. you'll be surprised that the export of corruption from west to east is consistent! we want a clean, democratic romania, but also a romania with equal status in the eu with the other states.
in writing. madam dăncilă, last week in brussels i told you that you represent all romanians and that you must correctly inform about what is happening in romania. you did not do that in brussels or today. unfortunately for you, there are enough credible and honest sources of information to know the truth. you will go down in history as the person who held the office of prime minister during the events of august 10. what happened then is a summary of your government's activity: contempt for the people, contempt for democracy, for european values, attitude of dictatorship, untruth and manipulation. you beat and gassed peaceful people, not drugged and paid as you claimed, women and children. those who are now being investigated for these acts should not be left alone. you and the minister of the interior, but also the shadow leader liviu dragnea, must answer for all this. romania is a european country and romanians will continue to support the eu regardless of the efforts you and your colleagues make, out of interest or lack of competence, to go in the opposite direction.
in writing. the european parliament debated yesterday the situation of the rule of law in romania. i think that this debate has not presented the real situation in our country, that of a legitimately elected government acting to ensure the security and safety of its citizens and fighting against a system of the 'deep state' type. the objective of the government of romania is to ensure respect for the civil rights and freedoms of romanian citizens. this whole process of disinformation and spreading false information is meant to discredit romania in the most democratic institution of the european union. the intervention of gendarmes in the bucharest protests was strongly criticized, but there was no debate on this topic when gendarmes, for example, from brussels or barcelona acted the same as those in bucharest. i hope that in future debates the focus will be on key issues such as romania's economic growth of 7% over the last four years and its role in achieving the objectives of unity and strengthening the european construction. in this context, it is clear that we need a new approach and a constructive and fair dialogue between romania and the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the reform of eurojust was necessary. if we think about the statistics and the results we have on the fight against organised crime and the annihilation of criminal organisations, i think it remains a challenge and i think that by reforming and voting the new regulation on the organisation of eurojust, the commission will have a much better tool to work with and i think that the member states should all join in. i'm surprised we have colleagues here who say there shouldn't be such a regulation. i cannot imagine how it is possible, across borders, for one state alone to be able to solve criminal networks and we know well that - i, as a member of libe, but also of imco - we know well that these networks affect very much the internal market, fair competition and many things and ultimately the lives of citizens. i don't think it's right for our colleague to ask for a warrant, because i don't think any citizen or any company is happy that these organized crime networks exist.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, tomorrow you will vote on the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. the commission attaches high importance to the adoption of this regulation as it is part of the action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorism and contributes to completing the security union. first, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, ms nathalie griesbeck, for her excellent work and strong dedication on this file. for instance, her determination to maintain this piece of legislation as a regulation was very impressive. thank you for this. we all understand that it has to be a coherent, reliable and swiftly functioning instrument and with the directive maybe this coherence would not have been as perfect as we need for the practical use of this tool. with this regulation, we take a big step in the eu criminal justice system. it is the first regulation in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the rules will apply directly in all member states. secondly, the instrument will be an important step to facilitate cross—border recovery of criminal assets and lead to more efficient freezing and confiscation of funds from illicit origin in the eu. as we already heard, at this moment, quite shockingly, 99% of criminal proceeds remain in the hands of criminals and terrorists. this is clearly not acceptable. the regulation will contribute to ensure that criminals and terrorists cannot use loopholes to fund further operations. national authorities will cooperate better and faster, with clear deadlines and standard documents. in cross—border cases, the victims’ rights to restitution and compensation will have priority over the state’s claims. that is also why i like this proposal – because it contains elementary fairness for the victims of crime. the text includes safeguards ensuring that the mutual recognition of freezing or confiscation orders is, in line with fundamental rights, protected by the eu charter. it finds the right balance between the need to ensure mutual recognition and the respect of fundamental rights at the same time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank ms griesbeck for her work. ms griesbeck, you were tough and you were efficient when it came to defending parliament’s position, especially when we fought together to protect human rights. i thank you especially for that because, as you know, it was my number one priority. this regulation is one of the three measures intended to strengthen the eu’s capacity to fight organised crime and terrorism and to cut off the sources of financing for criminals and terrorists across the union. it is important that this is a regulation and not a directive. we must deprive criminals of the proceeds of their crime. moreover, confiscation allows victims to be compensated and provides additional funds to invest in law enforcement activities or other crime prevention initiatives. in june, the council, following a provisional agreement with parliament, agreed on new rules. the general principle of recognition means that all judicial decisions in criminal matters taken in one member state shall be – and normally will be – directly recognised and enforced by another member state. the regulation sets out a number of grounds for non—recognition and non—execution based on fundamental rights, which we fought for together and we were successful. i would also like to thank the shadows. in the final text, thanks to our work, many safeguards have been added and fundamental rights will be fully protected. we asked, and achieved, standards, certificates and procedures to allow speedy and efficient freezing and confiscation actions – a deadline of 45 days for the recognition of a confiscation order and, in urgent cases, a deadline of 44 hours for the recognition, and 44 hours for the execution, of freezing orders. those limits can be postponed only under the strict conditions detailed in this regulation. finally, yet importantly, there are provisions to ensure that victims’ rights to compensation and restitution are respected in cross—border cases. this legislative instrument is the first regulation based on the principle of mutual recognition concerning criminal law proceedings. i encourage you to support it and to vote in favour tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, how are we doing on confiscation and seizure? only 1% of the assets that come from crime are confiscated today. trillions of euros are generated by crime, but we only recover 1.2 billion euros a year, the rest goes to the criminals. that is why i am disappointed by the backward steps taken by this regulation. so i'll be the critical part, apparently, of what we vote on. of course, there are many good things about it, but i'll just talk about the things that disappoint me. in the new text of the regulation, the notion of 'good faith third parties' is replaced by 'affected persons' - this includes those against whom seizure or confiscation orders have been issued. time limits for mutual recognition and enforcement of claims, attachment or confiscation orders are increasing instead of decreasing. three - the protection of confidentiality of ongoing investigations is much diluted compared to the commission's proposal and four - new grounds for non-recognition of confiscation and attachment orders are introduced. as such, it's going to be harder to confiscate and harder to put under seizure.
madam president, commissioner, this afternoon we discussed two regulations: the regulation reorganising eurojust, which is very important, and this regulation. i would also like to stress, as my colleague mr pavel has said, that it is good that there is no directive and that there is a regulation, because there will no longer be any difference in the assimilation and implementation of this extremely important instrument, the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. i am convinced that it will be a very important instrument in the internal market of the european union. we need oversight mechanisms and i think the regulation will be the main mechanism. with this regulation and its provisions we can, of course, fight crime, as has been said, but we can also stop the financing of terrorism. there are illegal markets, there are figures here, statistics i think don't really capture the whole illegal market yet. it is also alarming that for so long we have failed to recover a very high percentage of the profits that are estimated to be obtained through crime. european justice means judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters. i believe in this regulation and hope it will be voted on tomorrow.
in writing. finally, the european commission has finally come up with a european regulation to facilitate the freezing and confiscation of assets hidden abroad by criminally convicted persons. it may not be so easy now for convicted criminals to seek refuge in other countries, where they can live off the wealth transferred and defy the citizens of the countries where they made that wealth through crime.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what you have said, but do you not think that public procurement which is allocated to large companies - as you say - is actually using a trick: they put a small price and then add to the price by additional acts? it's a procedure i've come across. can you confirm that you are aware of such a thing?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that we have an own-initiative report from parliament on this subject, it is very good that we are re-examining the legislative package on public procurement. in fact, in 2014, when the directive was amended, i had my complaints and, lo, it turned out that i was right. first, the 2014 directive is, in my view, extremely general, evasive and allows for very wide differences in national legislation on public procurement in the member states. and now we're facing some very big things and i don't know, commissioner, how we can solve them with the new package. for example, the appeals. the challenges are really prolonging the spending of money that we're supposed to want to spend in order to have an immediate effect of that investment. there is no very clear definition - who can and when to challenge, how we define the interested party, because a boutique cannot challenge a road infrastructure tender. secondly, the lowest price - discussed here - does not apply and the commission has made this analysis: over sixty percent of purchases are not at the lowest price. and there's another problem: research -- especially medical research. in my view, procurement for medical research should be excluded.
in writing. – the belarusian media is faced with numerous challenges brought about by repressive and restrictive laws. in recent years, the nation has seen a deterioration of media freedom, notably targeting independent journalists and news outlets. in 2017, 100 journalists were arrested or detained, many of whom were covering opposition protests or reporting on issues considered unfavourable to the presidential administration. in recent months, new restrictions have led to increasing arrests, surveillance, libels, and fines against journalists. these national media laws create a system of extreme government censorship that directly contradicts the fundamental freedoms protected by the belarusian constitution. access to charter97.org, a news site calling for democracy and pro-human rights, was arbitrarily blocked by the ministry of information, displaying an excessive restriction on the right to freedom of expression. furthermore, in august, two independent news outlets were raided by belarusian authorities, leading to the arrests of nine journalists. it is actions like this that have resulted in belarus being placed at 155 out of 180 countries in the reporters without borders world press freedom index. belarusian authorities need to strengthen respect for democratic principles and the right for truthful and unbiased journalism to prevent the climate for independent media from worsening.
mr president, grave human rights concerns have long been common in china. recent developments, however, show a turn towards the worst. emboldened by the silence of western democracies, china has been stepping up its efforts against religious minorities and ethnic groups it deems unreliable, such as uyghurs, tibetans, and kazakhs. some of the most significant and disturbing developments currently happen in the uyghur autonomous region, with the massive—scale development of re—education camps. human rights watch has rightly compared these re—education camps to black holes to which people are added and from which they do not get out. this is why it is so difficult to estimate how many thousands of people have already been sucked into them now. what we know is that today nearly every family in the uyghur diaspora has a missing relative or loved one. if it is to prove effective, the eu—china human rights dialogue cannot avoid thoroughly investigating such issues.
madam president, rigged auctions, conflicts of interest generate losses of over two billion euros a year. all this money is from the pockets of european citizens. there are also rigged procurements, because that's what we're talking about in this report. the digitisation of the public procurement system has been delayed. it is only from july that all member states must use digital platforms for public procurement. the platforms should detect fraud and corruption and member states should also implement electronic forms as soon as possible. the commission should ensure the connection of national contract registers with the european register. electronic public procurement is more transparent, reduces red tape, simplifies and shortens processes, and ensures that money is spent correctly.
madam president, drug trafficking, human trafficking, terrorism, cybercrime are committed on a cross-border level by groups operating in several states. eurojust therefore has a key role to play in ensuring effective cooperation and coordination between the judicial authorities of the member states and also in supporting investigations involving third countries. the new regulation should increase the efficiency of europol and clarify the boundaries between europol and the european public prosecutor's office, designed to ensure good cooperation between the two.
madam president, i voted for this regulation because it maintains the balance between access to non-personal data in the public or private sector and national security issues in certain areas of the public sector. the regulation removes barriers to access to information, for example: unjustified restrictions imposed by public authorities in member states on the location of data - these are signs of protectionism that have no place in the single market; also the uncertainties about the applicable law in case of cross-border data processing or changing service providers, such as cloud, in case of abusive practices by them. that is why we are taking an important step towards opening up the market to new business models and innovation opportunities.
the following is the order of business for the joint debate on:- question with a request for an oral reply on the 2018 un climate change conference in katowice, poland (cop24) addressed to the council by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, jo leinen, jadwiga wiśniewska, gerben-jan gerbrandy, bas eickhout and estefanía torres martínez on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000089/2018 - b8-0411/2018) (2018/2598(rsp)),- question with a request for an oral reply on the 2018 un climate change conference in katowice, poland (cop24) addressed to the committee by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gerben wiśniewska, gerben-jan wiśniewska and gerben-jan wiśniewska (cop148/1414148/2018)), with a request for an oral reply by jeanine wiśniewska, jadwiga wiśniewska, gerben-jan eickhout and gerben-jan gerben (2018/1598) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000088000),-public health (o-janine pier pier piernickie wiśniewski) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and public health (o-jan jan jan jan jan jan jan 2018),-jan wiśniewska (2018/141498/jan) and the committee on the convention on the protection of the environment, the convention (o-jan jan 2018 convention), with a request for the convention on the protection of the protection of wildlife (2018/14th of species (o-jan jan jan jan 2018),
author. – mr president, it is almost three years since we signed the paris agreement and almost two years since its entry into force on 4 november 2016. a total of 181 out of the 197 parties to the convention have already deposited with the un their instruments of ratification to what may be qualified as the most significant international agreement of the decade. undoubtedly climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity. the recently released report from the ipcc on global warming of 1.5°c indicates that climate risks are worse than we thought and that allowing global temperatures to rise by nearly 2°c is not safe. the paris agreement was a major step, but a lot more needs to be done to ensure that this agreement will deliver on its intentions. in this house we all know from our work on european legislation that if it’s hard to agree on a common set of policies, it is even harder to implement them in a meaningful way. we are five weeks away from the start of the 24th climate conference in katowice and it is shaping up to be a race against time to prepare the so-called paris ‘rule book’, which will govern how the climate agreement will actually be implemented. cop24 will be a key opportunity to take stock of progress made towards the agreement’s mitigation goal, and to inform the preparation and revision by 2020 of the parties’ nationally determined contributions for 2030. we will also learn from the talanoa dialogue, which took place throughout this year. the european union and its member states are the largest provider of public climate finance, but the actual pledges by developed countries fall far short of the collective goal of usd 100 billion per year. the suspension of the us contributions to the green climate fund will substantially widen up a hole we have all been working hard to fill in. these are all pertinent questions. we look forward to the discussions today with both the council and the commission, who will be sitting on the negotiation table in poland in five weeks’ time. as every year, in line with our commitment to the international climate process, the european parliament will attend the katowice conference and follow the discussion and decisions made there. on thursday this week we will adopt our resolution on the topic, which sets out the vision, concerns, expectations and aspirations of our institution. my colleagues will shortly present many of these in their interventions. but before i hand the floor to my colleagues, i would also like to raise the issue of biodiversity. biodiversity decline is one of the biggest environmental challenges of our time. unfortunately, the large majority of the 2020 aichi biodiversity targets will not be met with the current trajectory of biodiversity loss. given the intrinsic value of biodiversity and the essential contribution of ecosystem services to human wellbeing and economic prosperity, the protection of global biodiversity should receive the highest political attention. i would therefore urge the commission and the member states to commit to immediate, substantial and additional efforts on biodiversity conservation so as to meet the eu targets and halt the loss of biodiversity. i will leave it at that and conclude by saying that i look forward to a fruitful exchange with you all this afternoon, as well as a smooth cooperation between our institutions on these issues and, more specifically, in the run-up and during the climate negotiations in december.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in recent years, it has become clear that we need to do much more than we have done before to stop the harmful effects of climate change. it also appears that the impact of changes in the regulatory environment by the states is limited. in the future, it will not be enough to reduce emissions from road transport alone, but progress will also have to be made in agriculture, industry, energy, aviation and water transport. we need to transition our entire societies to the new reality. the developed world can provide a good example in this regard, but developing countries also need a change of model. if there is a global challenge today that requires the collective effort and sacrifice of all of us, it is climate change. because the sacrifice will be necessary, the question is how much and when will we accept it as inevitable.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for the good debate and useful suggestions. halting biodiversity loss, not only on land but also in our oceans, must become more than just a goal. i agree with those of you who said that to really make it happen, we need to shift up a gear by building on financial instruments and optimising policies such as development aid to put in place a solid process for voluntary commitments that can attract adequate resources, together with clear, quantifiable global targets. ongoing scientific work will help us better understand and quantify the biological and economic implications of living within planetary boundaries. this should put us in a better position to translate policy objectives into operational and effective measures. of course, we will also need to mobilise adequate resources to achieve our goals. this is an investment that is necessary and urgent, considering that the cost of inaction is increasing exponentially. consequential social and economic costs are not simply an ambiguous concept. we know for a fact that biodiversity loss has direct links to human displacement, migration and global security concerns linked to food and water. the conservation and restoration of biodiversity can therefore be a powerful antidote to these challenges. we have started our preparatory work with the evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020, including plans for stakeholder consultation. this will contribute to the discussions on the post-2020 global framework. we need to rise up to this opportunity and take a lead in encouraging global partners to act with us. i am confident that with your support and the support of eu citizens, we can make the cop 15 in beijing in 2020 a game changer. on the 2018 un climate change conference, strong and united european union messaging will be instrumental to continue to deliver on our leadership during cop 24 in katowice and beyond. the european commission and the council, under the leadership of the austrian presidency, will contribute to the conclusion of the negotiations on the paris work programme, so as to enable the paris agreement to be fully implemented and global progress on curbing emissions to be tracked transparently and regularly. after katowice, our work must continue both domestically and internationally. with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. we should also assume a leadership position in prompting our partners to develop their long-term strategies if possible already ahead of the climate summit, which is to be convened by un secretary general guterres in september 2019, or in any case for 2020 as foreseen under the paris agreement. i would like to take you for the opportunity of having this debate. the commission looks forward to continuing our dialogue in the future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation. i am very much encouraged by our joint debate on cop14 and cop24 today. as on previous occasions, your support on outreach efforts to our international partners is very much appreciated. the ipcc report shows that, collectively, the parties’ nationally determined contributions fall short of what is required to achieve the long—term mitigation goal. all countries must contribute to accelerated short-term action and enhanced longer term ambition. as expressed by the council, the eu is ready to communicate or update its nationally determined contribution by 2020, taking into account the collective further efforts needed and the actions undertaken by all parties to meet the objectives of the paris agreement. in the context of cop14, we welcome the initiative of egypt to host a high—level segment in november 2018, just before cop14, to discuss mainstreaming biodiversity into energy and mining, infrastructure, manufacturing, processing and the health sectors. the council also stresses the importance of convening a high—level biodiversity summit, at the level of heads of state and government in 2020, to strengthen the political visibility of biodiversity and its vital contribution to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. we very much appreciate the support of the european parliament and its important contributions to our work in the run-up to cop14 and cop24. i very much look forward to continuing this exchange and working closely together in the run-up to the conferences in katowice and sharm el sheikh in order to achieve the best possible outcome.
in writing. – i wish to welcome the work of the envi rapporteurs on the resolution on the 2018 un climate change conference in poland, which will focus on the full implementation of the paris agreement. unfortunately, we are witnessing a present with more and more extreme weather events and temperature records around the world, which are deeply worrying and demand for immediate global action. irreversible impacts could be still avoided if all states which ratified the paris agreement prove their responsibility and do their utmost through well-defined individual contributions. in this context, i would like to stress the importance for third-country beneficiaries of the green fund to be effectively and continuously assisted and monitored by relevant eu bodies in order to ensure their progress and compliance. i strongly believe that setting binding climate-related targets for each beneficiary is crucial in order to assure that the fund brings the desired outcomes and maximises european taxpayers’ confidence in this mechanism’s capability to deliver. europe is, and needs to be, in the forefront of the world combat against climate change.
madam president, i would also like to welcome minister löger to the european parliament this evening. this year we are sharing the priorities for the budget of the union for next year, exactly as we shared them for this year. the council and parliament, together we say that the economy is important and competitiveness is important, we want more growth and more jobs, and research and innovation are important. but we go on two different paths. the parliament, under the leadership of daniele viotti, will propose adequate, realistic increases where money is needed; while the council, pretending that competitiveness, research and innovation is important, reduces the amounts foreseen for horizon 2020 by eur 300 million. this worsens competitiveness in europe and endangers research and innovation. minister löger, this is why i would really call on you in the following negotiations to move closer to parliament’s position so that we can adequately finance these important areas, which we have jointly agreed are important. if we agree that something is important, we have to finance it adequately as well. secondly, i would like to draw colleagues’ attention to one of the amendments which i have put forward. it foresees the allocation of eur 50 million in the position of the parliament in heading 2 for combating swine fever in europe, because in several member states we are seeing this dangerous disease which affects farmers in europe. i would like to call on the commission and the council to foresee the amounts needed. people and farmers are in need. we have to stand by their side if they are in need. the union has to be by their side.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank all the shadows for our excellent cooperation on this file. employee financial participation (efp) is one possible way to achieve our goal to reduce unemployment and ensure sustainable growth and jobs. it has been proved that the social performance of a company that has employee share ownership is 52% higher than in companies which have neither employee stock ownership plans (esops) nor an employee saving plan. currently, there are some 10 million employee shareholders in europe and 20 member states have some sort of efp incentive regulation. nevertheless, the development of efp is geographically unbalanced within the european union with a lag of 30 to 40 years between the lead and the late european countries. the explanation resides in the existence or not of adequate legislation and frameworks. in spite of many recommendations that have been issued since 1991, not much has been done in terms of approaching the topic at eu level through legislation or comprehensive public policies. therefore this report aims at creating momentum again for efp by, first of all, emphasising the potential of these schemes for both workers and their employers. among the advantages of efp schemes, i can mention more sustainable governance, better business continuity and access to capital for smes, better social dialogue and quality of work, more fidelity and motivation, less absenteeism and better skills development. secondly, the report stresses the risks and the loopholes which need to be tackled while developing efp. we must provide guarantees to protect employees and companies alike. each efp scheme should offer a wide range of tools for the company to design the most relevant scheme according to their size or activity. at the same time, any efp scheme must be developed with social partners, employees and relevant stakeholders. it must remain voluntary for employees and should be based on their informed consent, fully aware of their entitlements, obligations and risks. training should be offered to the employees in this respect. the efp should never replace salaries and no discrimination should ever be accepted relating to the employee’s decision to join these schemes or not. thirdly, the report suggests a number of measures which could be taken at union level. the commission and member states should design frameworks for the development of such schemes throughout europe, they should promote financial education, raise awareness among companies and employees and look into developing fiscal incentives for companies which would like to expand transnationally. synergies should be developed with programmes and for efforts carried out by the commission whose aim is to improve access to capital, especially for smes. we mention the european globalisation adjustment fund, cosme and the social economy, but also encourage different dgs to work together, like dg employment, dg fisma and dg grow. i hope that parliament’s vote will this time be followed by a proper action on behalf of the commission.
mr president, the european parliament's recent eurobarometer survey found that romanians' confidence in membership of the european union has fallen from 59% to 49%. without question, joining the european union was the best thing that happened to romania since 2007. thus, the over thirty billion non-reimbursable euros from the european union attracted in romania had a positive impact on romanians, increasing the quality of life in all aspects. i appreciate, however, that the decline in confidence in the european union is due exclusively to the disastrous governance of the psd-alde. the change in the criminal law for the benefit of a small group, the lack of attracting european funds for vital projects, the accusations always brought by the psd-alde of the european union to justify their own failures have led to this state of affairs. i draw the attention of this irresponsible psd-alde government that the recent remarks from the european institutions, whether we are talking about the european commission, the european parliament or the venice commission, were made in good faith and to draw attention to legislative lapses that violated the values of the european union and were in no way against the romanians.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the president of the republic of romania will be a guest of the european parliament tomorrow. klaus johannis, who won the presidency in 2014 with the support of the pnl, a member of the european people's party party family, and the overwhelming majority of votes from the hungarian minority community in romania, has disappointed voters on several occasions since then. the romanian head of state, who became a representative of the unfortunately small german minority, has on several occasions shown his insensitivity to the rights of national minorities. unfortunately, he even tried to revoke already existing minority rights in the course of defending the amendment of the public administration law in the constitutional court. klaus johannis's presidency so far is not proof of the exemplary nature of the romanian system for protecting minorities, but on the contrary: another excuse for refusing to discuss the real problems of national minorities. one year before the romanian presidential elections, president johannis has not given the hungarian minority in romania a reason to vote him in confidence again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it's time for a proper briefing. let me tell you a few things about the performance of the current social democratic and liberal government, which makes romania a factor of economic and social stability in the european union. the romanian economy thus grew by 4% in the first half of this year compared to the same period in 2017, after registering an advance of 1,4% in real terms in the second quarter of this year compared to the previous quarter. in the economic forecasts published at the beginning of may, the european commission mentioned the estimates for the growth of the romanian economy in 2018 at 4,5%, and for 2019 it is expected to advance by 3,9%. if we add to this performance the fact that the dancila government puts a major emphasis on social programs, namely the absolutely necessary increase in pensions and wages, i think we can conclude that romania is on the right track and tends to occupy the seventh place as a position among european states, becoming an important member of the european union.
mr president, the phrase ‘if you are not paying for the product, you are the product’ predates the internet era. still, both regulators and internet users seem unprepared for the new reality in which data is the new oil. unaware to whom they give away their data or how they can stop sharing it, most people until recently found being offered ads to buy things as something uncontroversial. however, the cambridge analytica scandal revealed something more worrying: people’s data can be improperly collected and shared, and they can be microtargeted by various entities who want to influence and manipulate their political view or voting behaviour. this threatens the very idea of democracy, according to which voters can decide for themselves and are not mere subjects of propaganda machines. users and, most importantly, regulators need to catch up with this new reality. we took the first step with the adoption of the general data protection regulation (gdpr); now we should apply it and make sure third countries using our citizens’ data apply it too.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a matter which concerns the future of europe, and ultimately the lives of its citizens and democracy. but the council is not here, the commission seems to be satisfied with the steps it has taken, we, the parliament, have done our job as we were told and we are in the same situation, commissioners, because every week we find that false accounts are being opened, that our data is being taken. what are we doing, really? the commissioner says we have a very powerful tool, but how do we use it? what are the results? let's be serious, i think the commission has to find common means because facebook has ignored us. i was on a delegation in july there. he didn't find anything new after he said that when he designed facebook, he didn't think about data protection. i think we have nothing so far and in a few months we will enter the european elections. we can't let citizens, companies, defend themselves with mastodons, fight with mastodons. that is the duty of the commission and the council.
in writing. in the context of the facebook-cambridge analytica scandal, where millions of facebook users' data was illegally accessed by a british consulting company for electoral purposes, we are witnessing today a series of wide-ranging discussions on the protection of personal data that every internet user makes available to the social media giants. i consider the phenomenon all the more important in that it can lead to the manipulation of citizens, especially during the electoral process, or influence consumers in such a way as to distort the market and fair competition. the facebook-cambridge analytica scandal has made it very clear that we need to make a significant effort to restore our citizens' trust in the democratic process and to ensure an appropriate level of transparency. in 2019, in romania we will have two rounds of elections. in this context, the illegal collection of users' personal data is one of the biggest challenges we face in the global digital age. it is therefore important that member states implement the general data protection regulation as effectively as possible and that the commission takes the necessary measures to monitor the implementation and application of the legislation in order to ensure the protection of all european citizens.
in writing. facebook is a global social networking platform that hosts, among other things, the accounts of over 370 million european citizens of all ages, citizens whom we have an obligation to protect from abuse of any kind. in this context, any breach of the european regulation on the protection of personal data by the representatives of this platform or by third parties who have access to its operation is in fact a breach of the privacy of 370 million european citizens. it is clear to everyone that the possession of data on hundreds of millions of people - including not only personally identifiable data but also data on political preferences, preferences for certain products and services or other sensitive data, as well as access to private conversations - represents a huge opportunity for the large companies that operate these social platforms. it's the case with whatsapp and other apps. that is why, as great as the opportunity is, so great must be the responsibility of these operators, and i support the application of drastic sanctions by european or national authorities whenever the european gdpr regulation is violated. otherwise, democracy itself is affected.
on behalf of the ecr group. welcome to the eu, mr president iohannis! eleven years after accession, romanians want to be in europe - 65 per cent of us want romania to stay in the union and over 60 per cent of the citizens of the member states want to be in the union too - a record level in the last 25 years. european political leaders must not lose this public trust, but must strengthen it. romanians are putting their trust in the union especially now, when they have been living for months the nightmare of an opaque government, which constantly attacks the independent judiciary and weakens the fight against corruption. but romanians are a living people and they do not hesitate to take to the streets to defend justice, fairness and democracy. during this time, the european parliament adopted new directives to combat money laundering, for the extensive confiscation of assets, but they are not transposed in romania, neither in time nor correctly, but on the contrary, often the opposite of what the directives provide. that, by this psd-alde government. to preserve its values, europe must punish the deviations from democracy. president iohannis has publicly criticized and sanctioned the psd-alde government's excesses, the assault on justice and the change in the criminal legislation. but the psd-alde speech, like the speeches of other populist politicians, tries to manipulate public opinion, insisting that romania or other member states are losing their identity. but they say nothing about the benefits of union membership. extremist discourse divides societies, while extremist politicians do their business with public money, following the example of the kremlin. we have to defeat extremism and populism. before taking office, the government must comply with all recommendations of the venice commission and warnings of the european commission regarding the amendment of the codes and laws of justice. it would be a sign of respect for romanians, for foreign partners and for democracy. 2019 will be the first time since accession that romania takes over the presidency of the council of the european union. the first eu summit without the uk will take place in sibiu in may 2019. in order to preserve its values, europe must also punish the deviations from democracy, as i said. romania has the opportunity, by taking over the presidency of the european council, to be in the spotlight of the whole world in the first half of 2019. i want romania to fulfil this role responsibly and professionally.
mr president, in a context that is so complicated for romania, both internally and externally, but equally complicated for the european union, your message today is an optimistic message, a message of stability, a breath of fresh air, if you will, for the european debate of these days. i agree that the european project needs to be recalibrated. after more than a decade of tensions, failures, crises after crises, we need to show the european citizens that we have learned from these mistakes, that we have learned our lessons and that we can enter a new european chapter much more determined, much better prepared, much better adapted to the realities of each member country. i want to thank you for reminding us of the over one hundred thousand exceptional young people in romania who work in the it industry, who develop projects on blockchain, who use modern technologies. not coincidentally, the first political project on blockchain was launched in romania these days, the first blockchain party in europe. i have high hopes for a digitised europe, because digitalisation can fight corruption and poverty. finally, i would like to thank you for having reminded us not only of the unity of the european union, not only of the importance of this unity, but more of 'unity in diversity'. the fact that you have returned to the core belief of the european union, that united we are stronger, but united in our diversity, preserving our national character, preserving our national values.
president of romania. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all, let me thank all the speakers, from the president of the commission to those who spoke on behalf of the political groups. you touched on several subjects, including my favorite one - my country, romania. in december 1989, we romanians decided that we could no longer tolerate the communist dictatorship and we removed it. since then, we have been building a democracy that we, romanians, want based on what are called the values of european democracy, the values of the european union. in these almost 30 years romania has changed. romania has changed profoundly. we are an eastern european country that still believes in european-style democracy. romania is a country with a growing economy. romania is a country that represents a pole of stability in the geographical region in which we find ourselves. romania is a country that aspires to leadership in areas such as those i mentioned in the first part of my speech. romania is a country appreciated and respected for the security it delivers both in the region and in nato and elsewhere. we have understood, we romanians, we have understood for a long time that we cannot remain recipients of aid and security, but we must assume a much more difficult role, but one in which we believe - that of the provider of security - and that is what we are doing. romania is a state of law. romania is a democratic state. in romania there is a political debate and in romania there is what i have called "a very vibrant democracy". i do not want to go into the details of the internal debate in romania, but i can assure you that i am determined to remain involved to guarantee the romanians the preservation of democratic values, the preservation of the rules and principles of a state of law and the continuation of a very hard, difficult, but fair fight against corruption. (loud applause) i think in europe we have more problems. one of them is the connection between citizen and politician. often, this connection is a weak one, citizens don't understand what politicians do, and unfortunately, some politicians don't understand what citizens want. in romania, the citizens have clearly said what they want, and i - who was elected by a significant number of romanians - understood that they want to continue this message with which i started, for a democratic romania, for a european romania, a romania deeply integrated into the european union, a romania that keeps the rule of law intact and that fights - and i must say, with notable results - against corruption. that there are controversies is true, but tell me what parliamentary democracy would be that without controversies? and i am determined that from this fight european romania, democratic romania will win and i will get involved for this. i spoke in the first part of our meeting about how i see the future of the european union. several positions were taken rather about the near future of the european union and then let me say a few words about how we see romania, how i see the near future of the european union and i refer to the first part of 2019, when romania will hold the presidency of the council of the european union. we're going to have a very difficult time. we have extremely difficult cases, which we want to deal with fairly, but also with a lot of determination, towards a positive or optimistic outcome. it won't always be possible. one of the files is called brexit, and here, certainly, things are still in a phase that depends very much on the negotiation that is going on, but we want to reach an agreement with the uk, and we want to have that agreement very quickly. romania will be involved as far as the presidency of the council can be involved in this. and let me say that here we have, in the brexit negotiations, the first tangible, clear and transparent evidence of the effectiveness of collaboration. the fact that the 27 worked closely together, accepted a single negotiating team, brought remarkable results. so unity is not a concept of dreamers, but unity is a concept of visionary politicians. we have a dossier which i know you have discussed in parliament and which is dear to you and to us, and that is the multiannual financial framework. we need to make progress on this file. the fact that you in parliament are encouraging us in the council to go towards an increase in the budget is, in romania's view, a good thing, but the negotiation will have to continue in practice - and here romania will be involved and we hope to have, if not the completion of the negotiations, at least significant progress in sensitive areas on this budget. one issue that was also mentioned by me and some of the speakers: migration. we need to come to a common approach as soon as possible. if we fail to define a european policy in this area, then we have a major problem. and romania will be involved to make progress in these negotiations. at this point, as you know very well, on the dublin reform, we have 28 opinions from 28 states, very different. and i think we can bring these views together and come to the first common conclusions that then allow us to have a multi-layered treatment of this phenomenon, a treatment that will be fundamentally different from the way we've been doing it. we have so far acted in the wake of a crisis; we must act before a crisis - that is what i meant when i said that the european union must act pre-emptively. we know how the world works, but we also have to prepare ourselves to deal with the effects of that function. and finally, during the romanian presidency, the european elections will take place and during the campaign for the european elections we will have the sibiu summit. this summit is extremely important for romania and for the european union, and not necessarily because it's my hometown, but because that summit has a single and clear theme - the future of the european union. we will discuss and create a thinking about the european union that is clear, clear, understandable to the european citizen, not just to the european politician. and next year's european parliament elections will give us an x-ray, will show us whether we have all been credible, whether we have been able to generate credible projects, whether we know how to draw a future for the european union, or whether we have a little more work to do. thank you. thank you. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, you spoke very well of the european union and i am glad, because i am a great supporter of the european project. but speaking of responsibility, you failed to mention the abuses committed during your mandate in the name of a just cause that must continue - the fight against corruption - but which, unfortunately, has often been used for power games. during your mandate, a new secret protocol was signed between the romanian intelligence service and the general prosecutor's office, whereby prosecutors became subordinates of the intelligence service, being obliged to report on the developments in their investigations. one consequence of these secret protocols was the situation of dozens of prosecutors and judges, including from the constitutional court, accused of non-existent facts, harassed for years, being finally acquitted. the independence of the magistrates was thus affected. take this responsibility, mr. president, so that we can make sure that these abuses will never happen again.
mr president, mr president iohannis, i appreciate the way you see romania as the future of europe. the pro-european voice of the east, which you represent, is extremely important at this time when confidence in the european project must be rebuilt. i believe, as you do, that a two-speed europe is extremely dangerous and can create rifts within the union that will be difficult to repair. i also believe that the success of the european union depends on the success of each of the member states, and romania needs to do more and better to contribute to the strengthening and future of the european project. in this context, i think it would be interesting for us if you could tell us some of the internal priorities that romania has to overcome the gaps with the other member states and contribute, by itself, to the future of the union.
mr president, mr president iohannis, welcome to the european parliament! you have not spoken badly - here, before being members of a political party, we are citizens of a country - and i congratulate you for the pro-european approach that you have expressed - all romanians are pro-european, they are good europeans - but i want to ask you the following question. i know that, for the institutional memory of bucharest, the republic of moldova is the second romanian state. you have spoken about national priorities, you have spoken about the future of europe and you have not mentioned the republic of moldova. my question - i hope it doesn't sound dramatic, but i'm asking you - have you abandoned the republic of moldova? because in the last four years of your mandate you were only once in chisinau.
mr president, i am determined to defend my country, i am a great supporter of the european project. you spoke of unity and cohesion, you drew on president juncker's speech - europe with two lungs, east and west europe, one heart - you spoke of honour. it is an honor to represent a wonderful country like romania, mr. president iohannis, but you have a completely different language in the country, you incite division, your duplicitous language has divided the country in two, incites hatred between liberals and social democrats, has created a rift between generations, between romanians with different political options. here, in the european parliament, and a few days ago in italy, you praised the achievements of the romanian government. why don't you do the same in romania when you get home? where is the unity for romania, mr president iohannis, in the context in which you are dividing, destabilizing romania?
mr president, mr president iohannis, welcome to the plenary of the european parliament. in your speech on the future of the european union, you put a strong emphasis on security and prosperity. and i think these two components are very important, because in the next few years, the european union, we have to deliver exactly what the citizens expect from us -- and i think people expect, first and foremost, security and prosperity. we must be aware that we live in a changing world, and the pace of change will accelerate in the coming years. in the years ahead, european citizens will consume new categories of goods, services, new jobs and many of the jobs we have done so far will disappear. that is why i believe that the following four elements are essential for europe's prosperity in the future: education, innovation, youth and digitalisation. we need to train young europeans to work side by side - romanian young people, alongside portuguese, irish, swedish and estonian young people - and we need to tell young people that in europe, in the future, isolation is not the solution. euroscepticism, anti-european policies are not the solution, europe is our home. by building europe, we build our future and europe will bring prosperity.
mr president, it is rare in this parliament for the majority of romanian voices to express consensus around a central idea - that of our country's place and role in the european union. therefore, i only welcome your contribution and say that it would be good if we continue this debate at home because yes, - and for colleagues in the european parliament it is appropriate to say - romania does not see its place outside the european project and the nato alliance and this is a historical fact, which is shared by the political elites, the country's intellectuals, the economic elites. i have two questions for you, both of which will be answered at the sibiu summit. brexit - that's where the deal will be accepted. but how do your country and my country see future relations with britain? and two, about the future of the defence union - european defence - how should from our country's perspective this new european policy evolve in which our country has enormous interests and what will be the future of the defence union with the nato alliance?
mr president, mr president iohannis, it is a pleasure to have here in the european parliament a voice from romania that defends the union and thinks about its future. unfortunately, three weeks ago we had another voice from romania, that of the head of government, who attacked the institutions and who showed openly that she does not want to cooperate with the european institutions. you are right when you say that the union must not leave any member state behind, but i think it is equally true to say that the governments of the member states must not forget europe, must not leave it behind. and unfortunately, what's been happening in romania for the last two years is exactly that - europe is forgotten. i do not know of any government in the many psd-alde teams that have ever defended the european union, that have spoken about what europe means in concrete terms. no one, there is no minister who has done this. you say it will be a fruitful presidency. i'm afraid it won't. with whom do we defend europe, mr president? with daea? with andruska? with the swallow? with the tudorel toader? do you see them presiding over any of their peer meetings? no way, mr president. i'm not going to let you. i'm sorry mr. verhofstadt left because i would have told him that in romania corrupt security officials defend the independence of the judiciary by talking about the secret services. that's the reality, not a liberal point of view. and mr. verhofstadt told us that in 1990 he gave a radio in romania - he gave it to călin popescu-tăriceanu, he forgot to mention the owner. and to this day, she holds tariceanu in her arms, no matter what she does. shame on the liberal family, shame on the socialist family, both hold in corrupt arms!
mr. president, i have to ask you... we want a europe where, i quote you, there is no european citizen. romania is a member of this europe, and so are the romanian minorities. i hope you're not saying that the protection of minorities in romania is exemplary, since it was you who tried to revoke existing minority rights in the course of protecting the administrative law in the constitutional court. europe, as you said unitar și indivizibil, that is we hear this a lot at home it is written in the constitution, but it is precisely attempts like yours that divide romanian society, where minorities are considered second-class citizens. we're both minorities, you're german, i'm hungarian. europe and romania are perhaps the most loyal citizens, because we have remained in our place despite all attempts to merge. do everything you can to ensure that in 2020, when romania turns 100 years old, no citizen feels second-class. respect and respect the rights of minorities to their native language, symbols, property, and homeland.
mr president, at this very important moment for the future of the european union and when we are talking about its unity, i ask you, as the president of the sixth state in importance and size in the european union after the exit of great britain and a state that has remarkable economic growth and can be considered a true regional leader of europe, to firmly demand that by the end of the mandate of these european institutions - that is by may 2019 - romania becomes an integral part of the schengen area. i am aware that you mentioned this in your speech, but i ask you, as romania's representative in the european council, to solve this injustice for romania, because there we have a situation of blockage and ill-will. also, mr president, democracy is ensured by respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, the presumption of innocence, respect for the decisions of the constitutional court and without the citizens of our country being abused by the secret services through protocols. you had a constructive message today, but let's have the same constructive attitude in our country. let's protect all romanians together, and let them enjoy the same fundamental rights and freedoms as european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you must remember that this is how romania looks, thinks, and stands in relation to the european union, as president klaus werner iohannis has said today. he is the only man, the only romanian mandated by the romanian citizens to represent them, through a massive and legitimate vote of over 50% given in 2014. anyone other than the president of romania arrogates this right is an impostor and should not be taken seriously, no matter what he calls himself. for example, those who govern romania today were voted by only 18% of the total number of citizens with the right to vote and do not have this right.
mr president, commissioner, mr president iohannis, i must admit, and i appreciate your speech and thank you for it, and i can say that i agree with my colleagues who say that we would like this speech at home and read you an article from the constitution of romania, 'the president of romania ensures that the constitution is respected and that public authorities function properly. to this end, the president acts as a mediator between the powers of the state and between the state and society. we'll think about what this article means when we get home. as far as the european union is concerned, romanians are discriminated against in at least three reports i'm working on in the civil liberties committee. one is schengen and i would like to ask you to tell us under what conditions would you accept a two-stage entry into schengen for romania, even though we have been meeting all the conditions since 2011? the second report is the mcv. are you for or against eliminating the mcv? the third report concerns the visas that are still required for romanian citizens to leave for the us. we are discriminated against in this respect, and the european commission forgets to act, so it is practically breaking european law. the fourth dossier is from the committee on employment and social affairs. when we talk about social dumping - and we had a vote in the european parliament against social dumping - we also have to talk about social dumping with regard to romanians who work in the factories of multinationals in romania and are paid something like 10% of what workers who do the same job in the country where these multinationals come from are paid.
mr president, mr president of romania, you spoke about the need for unity and inclusion in the european union. at the same time, the multiannual financial framework. however, if you look at it, it foresees significant cuts in funding for the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. how will you act so that romania's level of development and the living standards of romanian citizens approach those of the former members of the european union? at the same time, mr president, i want to tell you that we, all romanian citizens, have been waiting for 28 years for a president of all romanians, a moderating president, a facilitating president, a president balanced towards all citizens, regardless of their political choice. at the same time, mr president, i noticed that your programme for today in the european parliament did not include a meeting with all the romanian meps. mr president, we are the representatives of the romanian citizens in the european parliament, and such a meeting would have been beneficial for us and for you.
in writing. today we were supposed to discuss an important topic - the future of europe. unfortunately, i have witnessed many speeches with direct attacks on romania in the presence of the president of romania. the subject was not romania, even though it is a member state of the european union. therefore, i would like to ask the president of romania whether, as the representative of the council, he will advocate that romania and its citizens be treated equally by abandoning the cooperation and verification mechanism and establishing a mechanism of surveillance of all states, given that, here, it is found that the great corruption is in other states, as the recent corruption scandal in 9 member states shows. i would also like to hear from president iohannis whether he will agree to the new conditionality for the allocation of european funds, namely the functioning of the rule of law. lastly, since we are talking about the future of europe, i ask you, mr president, whether you support a law on the accountability of magistrates in romania and in the union, given the huge sums paid from the national budget to unjust citizens by prosecutors, a chapter in which romania is a champion?
the reporter. madam president, a brief remark on three of these six countries - i have not forgotten and i want to say this in front of all colleagues - that saint kitts and nevis, the bahamas and mauritius are tax havens, but we cannot punish the citizens of these countries. we will have to work together to find other ways to prevent the money that needs to stay in the european union from flowing into these countries, and i invite you to do that together.
madam president, as for the commission, our main priority next year will be the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. our citizens need certainty and we need financial stability to face all the challenges in the sphere of external action, which is the area i am dealing with here in parliament. as regards the new external financial instrument ndici (neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument), we were surprised that the commission proposal did not take parliament's position, which was to keep a separate instrument for the neighbourhood, into account at all. there are also many questions raised by the governance of this global instrument, including the new external financial architecture. secondly, the western balkans must remain at the centre of our attention. the year 2018 was the year of opportunity for the balkans in terms of european integration; 2019 must be the year of coherence. i think we must continue our commitment to this area and export our stability there. finally, i welcome the proposal to strengthen the rule of law mechanism. you are familiar, mr vice-president, with the situation in romania and i thank you for your commitment. i hope it will be the same by the next european elections. we also have to be very firm when the rule of law is being violated in our neighbourhood. i am thinking in particular of moldova, where all the consequences must be drawn, including those at the budgetary level.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, let's be realistic - 2019 is a short year for the commission and for us. i think the priorities have to be very clear and they have been said here, it's about brexit. we have to see how it will have a very big impact - i am the rapporteur on the customs union - it will also affect the customs union and many other regulations that we have in place. but, commissioner, i think that every day we have to worry about the future of europe and this morning we discussed this. i think it is essential to see the commission find other means, other instruments to be able to establish that trust of the citizens and the member states, that we no longer have this perception of states divided into two - first-hand citizens/second-hand citizens. i think that confidence in the future of europe doesn't start after 2019, even if 2019 is a very difficult year. then trade defence. i have been saying for four years that third countries - yes, we have a market, we have product entry - but there is no good checking and there is unfair competition, we have deindustrialised. and last but not least, i would like to say that it is very important what we do with the multiannual financial framework. so how do we make it the best division?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have the press to thank, because many irregularities are discovered by the press and not by the competent institutions. commissioner, the fraud of tens of billions is missing from the budgets of the member states, the budgets of the european union and, after all, from the citizens. what is the commission proposing? because sometimes the commission sits and counts certain legislative acts in one state and doesn't focus on the internal market, on the picture of what's happening in the entire internal market, in the entire european union, because tax evasion is cross-border, they're very well-developed mechanisms. and although we have europol and many other security and verification agencies, nothing happens. i would like to understand from your answer, commissioner, what you are proposing concretely now, in this specific situation - the evasion of over 50 billion - and what mechanisms you will use in the future to prevent these things from happening again.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i trust we all share today the dismay and outrage towards the killing of jamal khashoggi. ‘killing’ – i don’t know whether this is the most appropriate wording to define the crime committed in istanbul and the horrific manner in which it appears the prominent journalist and opponent has been tortured, murdered and dismembered by agents close to the saudi regime. this is an unprecedented crime and case in the history of the world, at least since the second world war. never, never have we seen such a case! i also feel the need to emphasise that this is one of a long series of human rights violations and widespread crackdowns by the autocratic and discriminatory regime on prominent activists – journalists and writers, lawyers and human rights defenders – oppression that has intensified since 2017. finally, i would like to insist on what are probably the two most important points. first, the explanations given by riyadh are insufficient and absolutely not credible. they are mostly a whitewash of an appalling and flagrant assassination and violation of human rights, and of diplomatic and consular law. the second: these events ask for a collective, clear and loud response that goes beyond the short-lived international uproar. it is time to reconsider western relations with the kingdom. whereas i can only welcome the position of some member states, as well as economic actors and international organisations, to boycott today’s future investment initiative in riyadh, what is key is to have real measures to target those responsible beyond the number of operatives which were acting in istanbul. we will invite all eu member states to reconsider the export of arms to saudi arabia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, high representative, the construction of the kerch bridge and the developments in the sea of azov are yet another offensive by russia against the sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of ukraine and are a clear violation of international law. it is beyond question that, after the illegal annexation of crimea, after backing the separatists in eastern ukraine, after the suspension of gas supplies and after unlawful elections in the occupied territories and cyber-warfare, that this is an additional move by russia to destabilise ukraine from all corners. the socialists’ and democrats’ group once again stands by ukraine and calls for eu unity and determination in managing this issue. the situation must be reversed and the governance of navigation in the sea of azov must return to the basics of international maritime law. the eu should act as a mediator between kiev and moscow and avoid further escalation. it is in the interests of the member states to have free navigation in the sea of azov and to avoid further militarisation there, as has taken place in the black sea, placing nato’s entire eastern flank and the security of member states, including the baltic countries, romania and bulgaria, heavily at risk.
madam president, i believe that russia's intentions are clear: it is trying to deteriorate the social and economic situation in south-eastern ukraine and to create the conditions for the establishment of a future land corridor to crimea. i believe that the kremlin is no longer satisfied with the forced integration of the peninsula, its isolation from ukraine; now russia also wants to gain full control of the sea of azov. in doing so, it does not hesitate to impede, among other things, international trade. i am thinking, for example, of the random inspections by the russian security services, which cause delays and cost european vessels, especially romanian and bulgarian vessels, tens of thousands of euros. in this context, i believe we must stand united and help our ukrainian partners to use all diplomatic and legal channels to deal with these russian pressures.
mr president, as a former minister of justice, i support the defence of the rule of law and it is good that we have mechanisms in the current lisbon treaty. but i have to say that my position on possible changes is reserved, as the commission expressed in its 2017 report. in short, if we now amend the treaty of lisbon and strengthen the control mechanisms, including annual preventive reports, i believe that in my country, the czech republic, for example, populists would use such amendments to fight the idea of european integration and would use it against the european union as such. and i think that's something that we as real politicians should also be aware of. in short, strengthening the eu's position on this issue, the issue of the rule of law, against the will of the citizens and against the will of some member states, can go against the very idea of european integration. i would be restrained then.
mr president, i want to tell you something - the european union is currently at a crossroads and we are seeing a change of rules during the game. countries that joined the european union had to meet certain political conditions - the copenhagen criteria. you must bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen, a very important fact - the institutions in different member states are different. each country should be judged by the institutions it has. and there were some very important things said here -- that all the member countries of the european union should be judged the same way. but for that we need common institutions, the same institutions that do the same things for european citizens. i fully agree with mrs in 't veld of alde, who said that a mechanism should apply to all countries in a coherent way, taking into account the institutions that the countries have. unfortunately, we find that - and this has been said before - problems have been found, generally in the countries of central and eastern europe. given the situation we are in with the european union, i think it would be a big mistake to continue down this path. we need to have a balanced position towards the member countries because our citizens may feel discriminated against and discrimination is increasing in central and eastern europe.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, i am a lawyer and have been teaching criminal law, forensic science and other related subjects to law students for over 15 years. personally, i don't think there's a good-faith citizen in europe who would agree with corruption. we say "no" to corruption. but i am also concerned about the double-speak at the level of the european institutions. honest dialogue, i believe, is the only solution. that is why, in the context of brexit and a future european budget that is weak, i fear, mr president, that some powerful states - and i want to make sure in this way - that they will not abuse the lack of respect for the rule of law to take european money from less powerful states, such as those in eastern europe. in legal terms, there is currently no clear definition of the rule of law and no clear criteria to identify a breach of the rule of law. the only authority able to decide on the breach of the rule of law is the european court of justice, not the commission, the council or the european parliament. otherwise, mr president, we risk the arbitrary application of european rules and, of course, the punishment of certain countries as a result of purely political decisions.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, i believe that in every country, if we take to the streets and ask citizens: 'do you want to be governed by the rule of law?' do you want your rights respected? of course they'll say yes. the issue that is, and that has been touched upon by many, many colleagues here -- how do we define the rule of law? because we have constitutions, we have constitutions - and a colleague from the czech republic said 'the will of the people, democracy, after all, is the will of the people' - if the constitution is respected, if the constitutional court of that state approves, checks and certifies all the legislation that is voted in parliament - an institution voted by the people as well - then the rule of law is respected. of course i agree that all states should be checked, not like we have, romania and bulgaria, cvm and we can not get rid of it. the problem is that we know the instruments, how they are measured, and yet the commission, which is a so-called body, cannot cut funding, for example, because it is a conditionality that is not in the treaty and i do not think we are changing the treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, assessments of respect for fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law should be made regularly in all the member states of the european union and are indeed welcome. on the other hand, we must be very careful with such assessments based on sometimes subjective and arbitrary concepts and criteria, especially when we try to introduce them as conditionalities in the allocation of european funds. is there a legal basis for introducing such a mechanism? do we know to what extent it violates or interferes with existing treaties? there are some questions that we need to find clear answers to and talk about clear notions, involuntary, and only then, to discuss such a mechanism, which we all want, but certainly no one wants to be a political tool.
mr president, mr timmermans, you have said here earlier that the problem facing the commission is not to obtain the necessary information but to act on it. allow me, with all due respect, to disagree. and in that chain, you've missed the middle step, which is the analysis and evaluation of the information that you're receiving, and that's the real problem that we're facing here. in the absence of a correct and thorough analysis, there were sometimes positions and statements that did not reflect reality and that led to the use of a double standard in the assessment of key situations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing you today not as a member of the european parliament but as a european citizen and as a supporter of all the principles which underpin the construction of europe: unity, solidarity, economic and social cohesion, balanced development of all european regions. and as such, i am totally opposed to any instrument or mechanism that can block the right of member states to access european funds. we do not forget that the member states need these european funds to ensure the balanced development of all our regions. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that here in the european union we all have the same rights and obligations. and if we have the same rights and obligations and we are talking about establishing such a mechanism, i wonder why you are not establishing a cooperation and verification mechanism at the level of all the member states, and not just at the level of romania and bulgaria? beware, because we are going to introduce mechanisms that interfere with the european treaties and that speak of a double language and a double standard at the level of the european union and this will seriously affect the unity and future development of this important construction.
mr president, mr first vice-president, from an affirmative perspective, i believe that this instrument must first of all be based on a very clear legal basis, which prevents ambiguities and conflicts with other instruments or provisions of other mechanisms. secondly, as regards the guarantee of applicability, this mechanism must be explicitly applicable to all member states without exception and this must be stated expressis verbis, as the assessment of alleged systematic infringements must be the result of a neutral and objective process and accepted as such from the moment the mechanism is established. secondly, the council's role is crucial, mr first vice-president, the council with the two-thirds mechanism prevents what the court of auditors of the european union said - the potential arbiter and discretionary power in the hands of the commission, as well as parliament's approval of a decision thus adopted. finally, if the proposal is balanced and fair, it could be adopted by the next rotating presidency, but with the guarantees that other colleagues here in parliament have also asked for - neutrality, objectivity, no moving targets and no double standards.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the efforts of the european union in recent years - because they have been efforts - have actually brought us face to face with new things, with migration management, with integrated border management, with cross-border crime. we had a sis system, the change we now want to make if this new regulation is voted on - and i hope it is - is absolutely based on a finding. in 2016, the commission did an evaluation - and i think we need to do such evaluations, because things are changing - and the commission's conclusion was that we need to do it and came up with a proposal to parliament to amend the sis regulation. the reporters and all of us were trying to find a situation, it was colleagues who criticized. we do not have ideal situations - of course we can think that there will be people who will be suspected without being guilty or fingerprinted and not suitable for some people - but it is important to increase the safety and security of citizens in the european union area - i am talking about the 'space', not just the schengen area - and i believe that the report, through the commission's proposal and the amendments it brings, achieves its purpose. obviously, at some point we can improve, after an analysis, but now i think the goal is to increase safety - and here it was said in which direction the report is going - and i hope it gets voted on, because we need to increase safety. cross-border crime has increased and we need a more secure system.
mr president, the security of the european union's external borders is fundamental and member states have a responsibility to protect their citizens. to improve the schengen information systems, member states and europol need to have closer cooperation and a consistent exchange of information, and this system is the solution. the common information system is in force in all 28 member states, including romania. the european union can benefit from the active role of romania, a country that shares information through these common systems. romania acquired the right to join the schengen area when it signed the treaty of accession to the european union, and this should no longer be delayed by inventing various reasons by other member states. in his speech today, president juncker also said that romania will be part of the schengen area until the end of his mandate. and i want to stress, mr president juncker, that you have only six months left.
mr. president, congratulations to mr. coelho. he is a very good man. schengen is undoubtedly an effective system for defending the european union, for protecting its borders against terrorism and organised crime. however, it is very important that it is continuously improved and that all participating states cooperate as closely as possible. romania has been part of sis since 2010 and institutions such as the general inspectorate of the romanian police or the border police inspectorate enjoy a high reputation for working together effectively in the fight against cross-border crime. romania also plays a decisive role in the security of the entire european union and acts as a de facto schengen state by professionally defending over 2 000 kilometres of border. unfortunately, romania's access to the schengen area has been restricted for 7 years by a political decision with economic, maritime and protectionist undertones, especially from the netherlands, and this opposition successfully fuels the sceptical phenomenon in romania. i hope that in the very near future romania will become part of the schengen area, as is right and proper.
mr president, although romania and bulgaria meet the criteria for accession to the schengen area - romania since 2011 - and although a resolution was adopted in the european parliament's plenary in may in support of the accession of these two countries to the schengen area, we are in october and the prospect of accession does not seem to be anytime soon. i just want to draw attention, mr president, to a reality that we sometimes hide or deny. the lack of trust of europeans in the european institutions also stems from such situations, where citizens of the union find that at this level we are still talking about bureaucracy and political interests that seem to take precedence over the interests of the individual. almost twenty million romanians are deprived of a right that belongs to them, because our country has met the requirements. in addition to these, we are talking about thousands of romanian operators who carry out trade and who are forced to wait for tens of hours at the entrance to the schengen area in vehicles to be controlled and checked. i would like to thank you for the resolution adopted in this plenary in may. i cannot, however, fail to note a lack of operationality on the part of the other european institutions in the implementation of resolutions adopted in the european parliament's plenary session, the image consequences for the european union as a whole being among the most serious.
in writing. we are talking again about the schengen system, of which romania is still not, unfairly, part. we are meeting the technical conditions for securing our external borders, which are also the borders of the european union. there is a small number of eu member states that have repeatedly opposed romania's entry into the schengen area. it is time for these member states to drop this opposition and they should do so during romania's presidency of the council of the european union. any member state may find that romania is exercising its border controls in very good conditions and fully complies with its obligations regarding the exchange of information with the other member states in this area.
president tusk, i have a few remarks to make on the council's work last week. first, on the brexit negotiations, it was said that they are almost 90% complete. the deal doesn't seem to be ready and it's obvious that the parties are at an impasse. that's bad, because the dispute ultimately comes down to the notion of sovereignty. second comment: on the proposal that the distribution of refugees be replaced by a financial contribution. although at first sight it seems to be a progress in relations within the union, it is still a bad thing. from a human rights point of view, the proposal is simply immoral. in terms of treaties, you can't force a state to accept foreign populations, so the distribution is null and void. these are just two examples of situations for which the current legal and institutional framework of the union cannot provide solutions that are in principle correct. i stress, we can't go on like this, because the problems are amplifying exponentially. we therefore need urgent and rapid reform of the european union.
mr president, i am glad that the section from the general budget of the european union has passed, because we have tabled a pilot project which concerns the protection of investigative journalists and, of course, the freedom of the press in the union. this pilot project has two very clear objectives: money for investigative journalism. they investigate organized crime, money laundering, corruption -- especially when it comes to politicians -- and they need independent financial support, obviously, because otherwise they couldn't investigate, because governments don't fund them. and the second clear objective of this project is legal assistance for them, because they are being sued, they are being investigated in many countries precisely to stop them from these investigations. i hope he makes it through. i would also like to say that we need to have, at union level, in addition to this pilot project a robust mechanism to protect investigative journalism. they are the most exposed today in the entire world. the currency on this organized crime battlefield is death.
in writing. – the signing of the lisbon treaty took place at a time when members of national minorities in central and eastern european countries were still experiencing the positive effect pre-accession had on the respect for their rights. these citizens were also extremely enthusiastic about the prospect of the eu internalising the principles of the pre-accession when, for the first time in the history of the union, the lisbon treaty introduced national minorities as a protected ground in article 21 of the charter and also mentioned the respect for the rights of minorities among its founding values. the years that passed since then gave way to disillusionment in the heart of many citizens, as the eu not only restrained from adopting legal acts for their protection, but it also failed to sanction member states when they started curtailing their already acquired rights. at a time when definite failures are daily experienced in the compliance with the founding values of our union, it is time this glaring omission in the eu legal framework was set right. this is what more than 1 million citizens also requested using the novel eci instrument of the same lisbon treaty.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come before you today satisfied with the work done in recent years on the report on the establishment of community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and the establishment of a european medicines agency. please allow me to review the work done with my colleagues and collaborators involved in this initiative, and to thank them for their consistency and dedication, as well as for their spirit of collaboration and constructive cooperation. this is because the result of our work is spectacular, with positive implications for national authorities, patients, human and veterinary doctors, farmers and consumers. in september 2014, the commission presented its proposal to decouple the centralised marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products from that for human medicinal products, which entailed amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. although parliament adopted our position on 10 march 2016, interinstitutional negotiations only started in january 2018. the interinstitutional agreement was concluded on 21 february 2018 as regards the amendment of regulation (ec) no 726/2004 and on 5 june 2018 for the vmp. the final text was approved by coreper on 13 june 2018 and on 20 june 2018, following a consensus among the main political groups in the envi committee, the outcome of the trilogues was unanimously adopted. the final agreement resulting from the negotiations included a number of improvements to the commission's proposal, notably as regards the agency's revenue and sources of revenue. as regards the setting of fees due to the european medicines agency by industry, i have agreed with the council to respect the current practice of co-decision. we also won concessions from the council on the european parliament's amendments on the establishment of the sources of revenue of the agency, the frequency of amr reporting by the ema, research into innovative methods and alternatives to animal testing and alignment with the financial regulation. the european medicines agency remains responsible under the centralised authorisation procedure for both medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products. i have concluded a supplementary agreement with the council to align the provisions on amendments and sanctions in the lisbon omnibus directive 2001/83 with the agreed provisions in the ema regulation. as the alternative rapporteur on the grossetête report, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and her colleagues on a very good cooperation and a worthy result. the new veterinary medicines regulation (com ((2014) 0558) resulting from interinstitutional negotiations covers all routes for granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products, ensuring the protection of animal health and therefore human health, the fight against antibiotic resistance and the competitiveness of farms and the veterinary medicines industry. this interinstitutional agreement also facilitates the movement of veterinary medicinal products throughout the european union through improved authorisation procedures and clear and updated retail rules. the main improvements to the commission proposal resulting from the trialogue were those relating to the amr package, online sales, pharmacovigilance, data protection, specific procedures for marketing authorisation for minor species or exceptional circumstances, environmental protection, homeopathic products. of course, this is only part of the success of the six trialogue, eight alternative report meetings and 23 technical meetings.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs garcía, on her work and thank her for her excellent cooperation as shadow rapporteur. this regulation has harmonised the use and marketing of medicated feed throughout the european union. it is extremely important to emphasise once again the prohibition on the use of antibiotics for prophylactic purposes. small and isolated farms will only be able to optimise their livestock conditions if they maintain established control systems. at the same time, it is necessary that the prescription, production and use of medicated feed be carried out in accordance with the instructions and under the supervision of a veterinarian. it is noted that member states in cooperation with operators are responsible for developing systems for the collection of expired medicated feed so that it is destroyed under maximum safety conditions after expiry. the labelling method should be simple and understandable for end-users and should include a mandatory warning about the possibility of contamination of persons in the vicinity of animals treated with medicated feed. at the same time, we have ensured - as is normal, moreover - that products from third countries are also covered by this regulation. these products must take into account the future european union rules on medicated feed. otherwise, the health of european consumers would be at risk and farmers in the european union would be exposed to deep unfair competition.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on their work and on the result they have achieved. antibiotics need to work to save the lives of people who have bacterial infections, not to increase the productivity of farms. i am in favour of restricting the use of medicines to livestock so that it can have the desired effect when it is really necessary to use them. over 70% of antibiotics produced annually go to the animal and poultry industries. so these substances end up on our plates, and without realizing it, we become resistant to antibiotics and we no longer respond to recommended treatments. this report also specifies the conditions under which veterinary personnel are authorised to prescribe and sell antibiotics and, in particular, as a veterinarian, i find this essential. as a former head of veterinary services in my country, i find it imperative that this legislation is transposed as soon as possible in all member states of the european union. the sale of antibiotics and veterinary medicinal products for which a prescription is required on the internet should be strictly prohibited. article 108 is not ambitious enough. we need to be aware that the misuse of veterinary antibiotics poses a serious risk to our health, our children and future generations.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteurs, mrs grossetête, mr tănăsescu and mrs aguilera garcía. my work in public health has been focused on antimicrobial resistance, and i want to point out that the misuse and overuse of antimicrobial veterinary drugs has been and is one of the main causes of the superbugs that we have today that are no longer responding to antibiotics. i worked as an alternative rapporteur on the report on the new european action plan against antimicrobial resistance, and i can tell you that the estimates for 2050 of the effects of this situation are grim. i welcome the provision to ban the prophylactic use of antibiotics and encourage the correct and prudent use of veterinary medicinal products on the advice of veterinarians. awareness of the public, as well as of those involved in the agricultural sector and veterinary professionals, on the risk of self-medication or reckless administration of antibiotics should also be raised. without combating the cause, we cannot have lasting results on the effects.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank everyone once again and assure you that i wish for the swift implementation of the two regulations which will benefit all parties involved in the authorisation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use, as well as the beneficiaries of these processes and procedures. today i can say with confidence that we have regulations that provide better access to human and veterinary medicines, provide viable and modern measures to combat antimicrobial resistance, reduce administrative burden and promote innovation and competitiveness in these sectors, which provide the european union with a solid legislative basis in this area for many years to come.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a very difficult report when you want to harmonize things, when we have subsidiarity. the commissioner said that the member states could set the charges and that is the situation on national and international roads. but i think there was a step that needed to be taken, i think we need to take this principle into account: the polluter pays. we must see how we can, of course, not affect international transport, and we must also think about small and mediumsized enterprises, but we must take this step. i have reservations about certain amendments, but overall this report must be voted on tomorrow, because otherwise i do not see how we can gradually move towards complying with the polluter pays principle and simplifying the way taxes are levied, because i was in four countries this summer and in each country there was a different system of taxation. it is a complicated matter in practice and i certainly think it is good that some compromises have been reached to take account of remote areas, more remote countries and to take account of the fact that member states can reduce taxes when there are socially justified reasons.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows that we still have a lot to do in this area and we must start with the safety and security of patients, as has been very much emphasised here. new manufacturers have entered the market, we have companies that make prosthetics, we have clinics that make implants, but the results, commissioner, in many states are negative. there are patients who are disabled for life after being put on certain devices. and i think that's where we have to think not necessarily about doing it fast, but doing it well. and i'm glad there were other voices like that here. i would like to ask you whether you think that now that we are in the process of implementing this regulation within a certain timeframe, we have updated studies on the effect of implants, the effect of prostheses, because you could help the member states. health is subsidiary, but we can have some european elements here to help the member states implement the regulation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would to thank the honourable members for all their remarks. first, many of you said that i am optimistic and calm. i would rather put it in other words: iʼm realistic and confident. it does not mean that we are not monitoring proactively everything that is going on, that we are not watching the process. but for now, we are in the timeline, we are on track and in the timeline, and this is the most important thing. i would also like to underline that with this regulation, european citizens – eu citizens – will receive the most reliable, the most innovative and the safest healthcare in the world. this is the aim of this legislation. this is why we doing this, for the safety of our citizens. let me refer to a few points that you raised. first, on the number of notified bodies. for now, we have 60 of them and 34 applications, so more than half have been received by the commission. there have been no delays so far in the assessment of notified bodies that have been submitted to us. according to our data, the first notified bodies might be available even before the end of this year, so a few months in advance of the timeline. as for the transition period for this directive (not brexit), in order to smooth the transition, the two regulations foresee a specific exemption mechanism – of course under certain conditions, namely the extension of the validity of the old certificates and the exemption of certain devices from the new, more strict clinical investigation requirements. those exemptions and those applications may end even in may 2024, so we have some exemptions in the regulation. brexit: an extremely important topic. you mentioned the transition period, but of course the transition period for brexit is much more general and much broader than only the medical devices industry. it applies to all of the industrial sectors, and of course if any transition period for general transition periods is agreed, then it will also apply for this industrial sector. but according to our information, the four uk notified bodies have already taken initiatives, as i said before, to adapt to the post-brexit scenario. the largest uk-notified body, bsi, is in the process of new designation in the netherlands; this is expected to be completed in november. another – sgs – already has local offices in finland and belgium, which could inherit certificates transferred from the uk. the two other notified bodies – ul and lrqa – have approached the same national authorities for a possible application, according to our information. so this is what the uk-notified bodies are doing. but of course, if any additional transitional period is agreed, then perhaps we might have some more time beyond 29 march. there was also a question on the database. work has so far been advancing, and again – not optimistically but realistically – we are in the timeframe. according to our plans, a first release of the plan for the implementation of the functional specification was accomplished by the legal deadline foreseen of 26 may this year, and the draft functional specification i expect to be ready by the end of this month (in one week). again, here also we are in the timeframe. but i want to assure you, as i said a few sentences ago, that we are proactively monitoring the situation. i know that in some member states there are some problems with the notified bodies, and i also practically discuss it with ministers and the governments of those countries, but for now we are on track and we are doing our best to face this challenge, but also to implement the new legal framework in a successful and timely manner.
madam president, commissioner, mr ertug, this is a debate we are having not just on the occasion of this report, we have been discussing it for a very long time, we need decarbonisation. i believe, commissioner, that there is also a need for a system of incentives for car manufacturers to be able to innovate, to invest in modern technology. i also think that there needs to be a focus on urban mobility and airport mobility. the first ones that could decarbonize, go on alternative electric cars to the ones we now have on fuel -- local authorities. but i really believe that we need - and it was emphasized here - a bigger budget to create infrastructure, because there are countries that have no infrastructure for electricity supply at all and then why would anyone want to buy a car or why does industry produce such cars. i think there should be a commission policy which is then applied in the member states.
madam president, commissioner, we need to look at how we can make the most of globalisation. from my point of view - i have been speaking here for four years on the internal market, you know very well that i am a member of the imco committee - and i have often raised this question: how do we make globalisation work? how do we have free trade, as my colleague said, but it has to be ethical and fair. we must have consumer protection, we cannot allow products to be dumped on the internal market without product safety. or here i think we have a lot of things to work out in terms of trade agreements, product standards, the conditions we put on product quality and expanding trade agreements with other countries as well. this is a time of global crisis, we recognize that, but we have to start from these things: ethical and fair trade, consumer protection, consumer safety, and why not think about how we make smes in the eu's internal market survive and thrive -- because we know very well that it's a problem now in terms of sme capitalisation.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, this report must be seen from three perspectives. first, a social perspective - almost 70% of eu citizens say their countries are badly and very badly affected by corruption. then from an economic perspective -- because between 700 and 1 800 billion euros is the value of money laundered globally. unfortunately, we do not have a figure for the european union. between 2 and 5% of global gross domestic product is laundered money. and three, from a political perspective -- because at the european level, at this moment, there is no political will in any member state of the european union to solve the problem of recovering illegal assets taken out of the european union. there is no political will, and it's very easy to understand, because in many member states, a lot of politicians have built their political careers with money from illegal businesses, they've gotten into very important positions in their respective states and they've laundered this money, they've won some elections through the democratic mechanisms that we know, and now they control governments, they control parliaments, they pass laws that protect corruption in the member states of the european union. in this context, the question that almost 70% of eu citizens ask us is: does the european union fight corruption? does the european union have real, effective, concrete policies to stop this phenomenon of corruption? in this report we are complementing some of the steps already taken by the european union and are proposing some concrete things. firstly, we propose that there should be a european union-wide map of the member states' legislation of those 'escape points' in national legislation - they say 'escape points' in quotation marks for them are often well thought out - through which money is taken out of the european union into different countries. secondly, we require a database or databases interconnected with data collected in a standardised way, real communication between the member states of the european union, so that we know in real time information from all these member states. we have countries in the european union where there are two or three offices for the recovery of illegal money and goods, but these offices don't communicate with each other. if they don't communicate at the member state level, how will they communicate at the european level? thirdly, we demand that the european union speak with one voice with third countries when it comes to recovering these illegal assets. at the moment, the european union has only four signed partnerships: with japan, the united states, norway and liechtenstein. it's very, very little. we also demand that this european mechanism which we want to build, which we must build in order to speak with one voice, have at its centre the european public prosecutor's office. and last but not least - it's not in the report, but i think it's an important step in the future, because if we want to stop corruption, then we have to recover this money - is that at the european level we take the decision once and for all that acts of corruption never expire and in 10 and in 15 and in 20 years, if we learn of acts of corruption, recover the assets that came from these acts of corruption, whether we learned them in the second or in the third generation. those who steal from the public money know that they will never escape the vigilant eye of the law.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that we are so few in number in a debate like this, because we go back to our states and complain that there is a lot of fraud, a lot of evasion. the european union is now trying - i say this timidly - to find a solution. the solution is very clear. on the one hand, there should be in all national parliaments, in all states, a very clear law of confiscation of assets, not to fill prisons, not to build new prisons from the budget, but to recover money from those who commit fraud. for that we need to have a very well-developed information system between states, because unfortunately this information system does not work, although we have a lot of agencies, institutions and europol and others. on the other hand, we have not set a very clear framework at the level of the european union in relation to third countries and then there is a refuge of money in these third countries. i think that the european commission should act here with proposals for very serious regulations at european level to have mechanisms through which to monitor, to photograph the entire internal market in terms of tax evasion, economic crime, not to have a two-state cvm mechanism and with that we have not solved anything.
mr. chairman, distinguished colleagues, only 30 seconds. i want to say that in my country today is an important day, it is the day of the romanian army and i want to greet and allow me to wish you a happy birthday and all the armies of your states, because i believe that the army is a landmark of security and stability. to the romanian army and, of course, to the army of your countries.
mr president, we have strengthened the schengen information system by making the exchange of information between member states and competent law enforcement authorities more efficient. for example, when a non-eu national on the territory of a member state of the union commits an offence punishable by at least one year's imprisonment under the law of the state on whose territory he is, that state enters an alert in the schengen information system which is passed on, to deny that person's right to remain in the european union and also to re-enter the union if he leaves the union. this alert system issued by the schengen system is therefore very useful to alert all member states of a person who is committing an offence and who needs to leave the union.
mr president, the schengen information system can only ensure the security of the union if member states quickly, correctly and completely enter the information that allows the identification of persons committing crimes or breaking union rules and thus helps the authorities to act immediately. europol can provide prompt and high-quality information to member states around the clock precisely to prevent acts of terrorism. the system can also protect persons at risk, such as unaccompanied children crossing union borders who may fall victim to trafficking in human beings and other forms of exploitation. according to europol, 10,000 of these children have disappeared without a trace. this is terrible! to prevent and identify terrorism and to protect victims, we need urgent responses, so these things need to be fixed.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, there is no doubt that multiannual plans are not only instruments in line with our common fisheries policy, but also instruments of responsibility, because they aim to protect stocks and create fish stocks that can be used appropriately by the population. it is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the sardine and anchovy stocks in the adriatic are being overexploited. that is why i think that measures and measures that are useful and practical must be taken immediately, because any continuation of this overexploitation can destroy fish stocks and i do not think that is what anyone wants. the fact that the drastic measures proposed by the commission are affecting the local and regional economies and communities in the area is certainly a certainty and in this context we must take steps to find solutions to replace these jobs. we also believe that the measures to be taken should be close to scientific data solutions but also to the solutions adopted by the gfcm and we regret that this report only talks about management measures after the first three years, which does not give the opportunity - in our opinion - to adopt long-term measures. we believe that we need to take a long-term view of this situation and our proposals have not been accepted, which - in my view - raises a major problem still in relation to the management of these stocks. i would like to stress that the measures proposed for this period alone are relatively balanced, but we do not consider them sufficient and we believe that this approach needs to be balanced and balanced, favouring both communities and fish stocks.
the situation of national minorities living in the union is very varied, but the question is far from settled and resolved. in some member states, these communities face serious problems, in many cases systematic violations of their fundamental rights and severe assimilation pressures. i am pleased that this report has been born and calls for action by the union in a number of key areas. it is unacceptable that the eu should ignore the specific situation of national minorities and the problems arising from it, accepting that there are no consequences for non-compliance with the conventions of the european council. more than 40 million citizens belonging to national or linguistic minorities have been waiting for years for such a report, which calls on the european commission to draw up a framework for the protection of minorities and to submit guidelines, recommendations and a legislative proposal for a directive. we, the representatives of national minorities, look forward to the commission's action, which will certainly be in line with the report.
it's a two-card draw. thirdly, i hear that albania is a member of the eu, i hope it's a translation error. my question is, how does greece treat its minorities, the albanians, the macedonians and the turks? do you not think that if they are treated well, they could set an example for other member states that want to join, like albania?
in writing. in almost every country of the union there are significant communities of national minorities from other states. whether these minorities have historically existed in a particular geographical area, or whether they have been formed as a result of labour migration, i strongly believe that it is our duty, and the duty of all of us, to ensure that all of these people have rights at least to some degree. romania is one of the countries that stands out at european level and that is exemplified in this respect by the way it has understood how to ensure a standard for national minorities, from the right to education in the mother tongue to the right to have bilingual inscriptions or to address public authorities in the mother tongue in communities inhabited by national minorities in a certain percentage of the total population. romanians, in turn, form large communities in other eu countries. in this context, i think it is appropriate to have as constructive a discussion as possible in the european parliament on ensuring minimum standards for minorities, not only for the benefit of romanians who have chosen to work in other countries, but for the benefit of all those who have found their place in a country other than their own.
madam president, commissioner, we live in the digital age, an age that has generated incredible speed in the way we find and distribute information. digitalisation has brought important opportunities, particularly in the way we access new information, the short time it takes to access it, but also in the way we use this information to make our daily lives easier. poverty is one of the direct consequences of lack of information. whether it's the literacy rate in a particular area or access to higher education, digitisation brings a number of benefits. digitisation also means developing public utility applications that can be used by local public administrations for the benefit of citizens. digitalisation means a huge opportunity for young people today: learning a programming language, but even learning basic digital skills, offers an additional opportunity for those who are leaning towards this field - information and communication technology. young people from all walks of life can be successful. in short, digitalisation brings with it the opportunity for an additional chance of getting a job, benefits for communities and, ultimately, the possibility of poverty reduction through access to information and knowledge.
madam president, the romanian government led by psd-alde is making a mockery of the health of romanians. moreover, this irresponsible government deprives them of their right to life and health by constantly refusing to use european funds for investments in the health system. recently, it refused to use the 150 million euros made available by the european commission for the construction of three regional emergency hospitals, namely cluj, iasi and craiova. that's the same government asking for money in the same direction in 2015 under the regional operational program. thus, although the local authorities in cluj, for example, have taken all the necessary steps to start this investment, inexplicably, the psd-alde government simply refuses european money, robbing the romanians of the chance to benefit from quality medical services. i publicly ask the romanian government to use all the financial resources made available by the european commission to increase the quality of the medical act and to save the lives of romanians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on romania is a great injustice to a profoundly european country which respects the principles of the rule of law, european democratic values, as well as the constitution of the state and the decisions of the european court. in fact, in romania the government and the parliamentary majority are doing nothing but huge efforts to ensure a reform of the justice system, precisely in the sense of respect for civil rights and freedoms, the presumption of innocence and the chance for a fair and fair trial, without televised justice or interference from the secret services. i regret to note, however, that some european leaders are sacrificing romania on the altar of political interests generated by the upcoming european parliament elections, without realizing that such games only divide the union. these same leaders do not realize that these actions are a great danger to the future of the european union, because the power lies in unity and solidarity, not in condemning and discriminating against the member states. that is why i ask my romanian colleagues to at least make a gesture of dignity at the twelfth hour and not vote for this resolution, and all the members of the european parliament to vote against it, because this resolution and such political games only deepen the gulf between the east and the west of europe.
at our last plenary session, the president of the european commission spoke of romania's upcoming national holiday as being a european holiday. i wish that were true, too, but we need to look at exactly what the 100th anniversary of december 1st is. the declaration of gelafehervar, which called for the annexation of transylvania to romania, but which also contained several important promises, such as the granting of full national freedom to the various peoples living in transylvania and the declaration that, i quote, "each people, by individuals from its own people, will live in its own language, with public education, administration and justice". this means territorial autonomy for szeklerland, which is inhabited by a majority of hungarians, and personal autonomy for minorities in transylvania and other parts of transylvania, including hungarians. these promises have not been fulfilled by the romanian state, so we can celebrate the centenary of the declaration when they are fulfilled. mr juncker also referred to the saxons in transylvania: it is regrettable and sobering that of the half a million german minorities in transylvania a century ago, only a few thousand remain today.
madam president, romania is a european state with european values, whose people were the most enthusiastic about joining the eu of all the peoples of the member states who were welcomed into the big european family after 1990. in 2007, romanians overwhelmingly expressed confidence in the european union at a rate of over 65%. i call on all my fellow meps to make an effort to understand these things before the vote tomorrow. any vote against romania will set a dangerous precedent for any member state and separate the west from the east of europe. the resolution on romania shows that many of the colleagues who will vote in favour of it have not understood that romania is a state of law, with pro-european values, in which the constitution, the laws of the country and the will of the people take precedence. this resolution demonstrates that many european colleagues have not understood that romanians have the right to express their will in a referendum, whether we like the result or not, and that romanian citizens have exactly the same rights and privileges as any other european citizen. please, madam president, please, honourable members, think tomorrow before you vote on the resolution for romania.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, romania has proved to be a sincere partner of the european union and a country that has not strayed from its european path. nothing is now different in that respect. the romanian citizens are unreserved supporters of the european project, the romanian government has shown openness to the european parliament and all european institutions and this should be appreciated. that is why i believe that the agenda of some politicians or political groups should not be the agenda of the european parliament. discussions in romania are exclusively about domestic political issues and as such, they cannot accept biased opinions, such as those of right-wing leaders. the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to take action to prevent the illegal immigration of people from the eu. the european union needs solidarity, and this can only be achieved if we are guided by fairness in decisions affecting the member states.
madam president, the eu has to take some very important decisions in a very short time. there is brexit, the budget and also a lot of other regulations and laws regarding the horizontal policies, and all this should be done before the elections. europe politically is not in a very good period, and i think that the budget is one of the most important decisions because it will show that europe will go forward stronger and committed to supporting its citizens to have a better future. so parliament will vote tomorrow on a very important text showing what it wants, which means supporting the new policies, but at the same time keeping the traditional policies at the level to be accepted by the member states. i think this is a new approach – to start from the bottom and not to distribute the money from the top – and i think it’s a good signal also for the european council. your responsibility, commissioner, is to convince. i know it is very difficult in the european council to have a decision before the elections.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr telička, you said that the commission did a good job, but we, the european parliament, came here with a different position. how do you explain that - the commissioner said today - that yes, the commission agrees to cut back on cohesion policies, the common agricultural policy, money for poorer areas, what cohesion and solidarity in the european union are we talking about, what european union in which we have a similar standard of living, how can we achieve the objectives of the treaty?
madam president, we are going to discuss today – and then adopt together – a budget for the next seven years. seven years is a long period of time in life and in budgetary terms. many unexpected developments will occur during the next seven years, as they have also occurred during the current seven years. we needed to react to the migration and refugee crisis in a way which we did not foresee in 2013. this is why i fully support the proposal for more flexibility, put forward by commissioner ottinger and also presented and defended to us this morning. flexibility will be important in the next seven years in order to respond to the unexpected developments which will occur. also, predictability and stability is important. the beneficiaries of eu funds need to know that if something unexpected happens, their allocations will not be in danger – researchers, smes, erasmus scholarships, farmers and the rural areas and the small communes which benefit from cohesion funds. so appropriate funding is also important. we have to tell the citizens of europe that money spent through the eu budget is not money wasted but it’s money well spent, because very often it’s cheaper and more effective to spend money once at the level of the 27 member states. finally, i would just like to underline that the position which parliament will adopt tomorrow will also contain eur 500 million over the next seven years to defend the rule of law, the judiciary and human rights, which are fundamental eu values. it’s very good that parliament proposes these eur 500 million.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a new financial framework must be based on the current situation, starting from the existing situation: what has happened to europe, we have more cohesion, we have better connectivity, we have more jobs, we have research, innovation in the global market. i think that everyone sets a budget, whether it's for the family, the company, the country or europe. but we must also take account of the fact that this framework is equitable and ethical, and i think that the council must learn once and for all to take account of the resolution, of the parliament's proposal, because, after all, we represent the citizens. and if the council does not take account of the proposal we have made here in this report to increase the budgets in these areas, we shall not have a united europe. europe is at a crossroads and it will depend a lot on this multiannual financial framework, how we can make it smart so that we can keep europe together, not discriminate, not have second-class countries, not have second-class citizens, have equal subsidies to farmers and all budgets are based on social equity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european parliament, as the direct representative of the citizens of the european union, has an obligation to ensure that the future budget will be in line with the development objectives of the member states. the union's financial policy can and must adapt to reality, but it cannot be one that abandons the fundamental objectives of the european union. parliament must defend the programmes through which the union has so far helped the development of the member states, in particular the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. we must of course not forget the needs for education, defence, research, infrastructure, reducing youth unemployment and support for smes. but we should not be afraid to ask for concrete things, for example, to require large companies to pay taxes where they make their profits. member states are a market for these companies and only the proper payment of fees can show that these companies comply with what is offered to them. the discussion is not about countries, but about the european union as a whole, the economic and social strengthening of each of the member states means the economic and social strengthening of... (the president withdrew the speaker)
in writing. the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework needs to be adopted before the european parliament elections in may 2019 if member states are to make a real effort to prepare for the new european programming period. the budget increase requested by the european parliament, from 1.1% to 1.3%, should be accepted by the member states, so as not to have a budget that does not provide the necessary resources to fulfil european policies and programmes. this is the position of the european parliament which will be put to the vote on wednesday 14 november 2018.
mr. president, i voted against the resolution because it is superficial and deeply unfair. in romania, the independence of some magistrates has been seriously undermined by the prosecutors general, laura kövesi and augustin lazăr, who in 2009 and 2016 signed secret protocols with the intelligence service, obliging prosecutors to become subordinates to it and report to it on developments in criminal investigations, a unique situation in the european union and i regret that many of my colleagues in the european parliament are not interested in the reality in romania. with the revelations about the secret service's interference in the judiciary and political life, it is clear that a monster has been created in the shadow of the verification and cooperation mechanism in romania, and the european commission should take responsibility for tolerating this. today's resolution also wants to whitewash the european commission and those member states which in recent years have only criticised what suited them, including through today's cvm report, thus perverting the very foundation of the rule of law.
mr. president, i did not vote for the resolution because it is a resolution of hypocrisy. it's not a resolution on the rule of law in romania. why does the european parliament, why do some meps, why does the commission want my country to be put in a corner? because they don't want to accept being a second-rate country, because we want you to give us recipes that you don't apply in your country. why don't you export what you put in your resolution to your home? why are you going into subsidiarity? in which country has the european union ever interfered with the change of a head of institution? why do we have to report when a constitutional head of an institution changes, either him or the attorney general? a crisis has been created, a country of prosecutors has been created. leave us alone! we want to protect our citizens, we want the treaty to be respected. we, romania, have not violated the treaty, but the european union is violating the treaty and the schengen regulation. don't let us into schengen even though we don't have fences, we don't have journalists killed. corruption - romania is in the group of nine countries where corruption is now the highest in the history of the european union. why not the same unit of measurement? i am outraged and i consider this an injustice to my country and to my citizens.
mr. president, in romania we kill democracy by killing the press. investigative journalists from the rise project document a case of fraud of european funds by politicians at the top of power in romania, including liviu dragnea, the president of the ruling socialist party of romania. the rise project and the journalists' consortium for investigating organized crime and corruption are convinced that the use by the romanian government of gdpr to stop and destroy journalistic information is a serious abuse of gdpr by politicians to abuse themselves, to protect themselves against their own abuses and against journalistic investigations. for example, four days ago, the national supervisory authority for the processing of personal data asked journalists to disclose their journalistic sources, the electronic and physical media they used to store information, documents and photos posted on facebook. if they don't communicate within ten days, the rise project risks fines of up to 20 million euros. that's not democracy, that's killing the press.
mr president, romanians are also european citizens and i believe that no european citizen can vote in favour of the hypocrisy, the double standards and the hegemony that some political formulas try to impose on eastern states. hypocrisy, mr president and honourable members, because you ignore that romania is condemned in 400 cases at the echr for not respecting human rights, but you come here and all the time make resolutions in favour of human rights. double standard because you're blaming us for not letting the president appoint prosecutors, but in poland you're blaming us for letting the president appoint prosecutors. hegemony because they are political formulas that have no corresponding reality. you ignore the double standard in justice, you ignore the selective justice, you ignore the influence of the intelligence services, and you tell us that's the way it should be done. maybe this is what the european union has done for ten years, tolerating this state of affairs in romania which is, yes, contrary to the rule of law and undemocratic.
mr president, if my explanation had a title, it would be 'little political games that risk destroying the whole building' - in english we say 'shandramaua'. this resolution has at least two very good and necessary points, i mean a serious criterion, a serious rule of law standard applicable to all countries - this is true - and the continuation of the study and the assessment of the level of corruption in all member states, interrupted in 2014 without any explanation. romania can't be first in this standard of corruption, but halfway, as the one in 2014 said. the term 'concern' is used very often. i'm worried, too, but not about what you think. i am concerned about this: that in all the great democracies of europe, extremism, xenophobia, nationalism have reached parliament and very close, blowing at the backs of the great european parties. while there's a big problem and concern with romania. i'm afraid there must be another concern, for we risk the whole "show" falling apart.
mr president, i voted today in favour of the resolution on the rule of law in romania. the resolution is good for romania, it's good for the romanian people, the resolution defends honest people from politicians in romania who want to weaken the judiciary, stop fighting corruption, politicians who want weak institutions at their helm. liviu dragnea, viorica dancila, the minister of justice, tudorel toader, they all failed. today, the european parliament voted by a large majority with the support of all the great european families, all the pro-european families, voted by a large majority this resolution, and the signal is this: the european parliament stands with the romanians, it stands with the romanian people in their struggle for good governance, for justice, for european values. the psd-alde attempt to convince europe that the 500,000 people who went out to protest were wrong and liviu dragnea was right has failed. today's overwhelming vote makes it very clear that psd-alde are isolated in europe and can't get anything for romania in europe.
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. dear colleagues, i think the german parliament would be very grateful if it could ask me more often for this length of time. we have now had over 30 questions, and it is of course quite impossible for me to answer each of them now, especially since i also told the president that i must leave the house at half past five. so i 'll just say this very briefly: first of all, i am of course very pleased - and i have expressed my indirect pleasure by quoting mr hallstein - that manfred weber has been elected the lead candidate of the european people's party and has also presented himself very well. i would like to make a point of this, as a member of the party family, so to speak. (applause from the centre) secondly, i should like to point out that for me the word used by mr leinen, which i do not want to use myself, is not the view of european monetary union and our common budgetary policy. we germans benefit from having a europe and, above all, from having a europe that is also growing closer together. that is why we are in favour of the cohesion funds, the structural funds. nobody - i could say now, nobody knows better, but i don't want to say it like that - but i am deeply convinced, and we see it in our own german history, through the coming together of east and west, how important it is that we have cohesion and convergence. if we do not have that, people will lose their joy in europe. now the question is, how do we do that? the political ideas naturally get mixed up and separated. i am very much in favour of the european social market economy, but the social market economy also says: i must first produce what i then distribute. if that balance is upset, then no power in the world will be able to restore the social security that we give to the people. if this is out of balance, then countries must take responsibility for themselves. i know how difficult it was in greece, how difficult it was in portugal. but i believe that we are all now back to growth, that we have launched a major programme to combat youth unemployment, that the european employment agencies are now working together, that we have also provided vocational training in germany for young greeks and others, and that we want to continue this aid. it must be the ghost. if we do not create genuinely viable jobs, we have no chance of building a genuinely good europe. that applies to italy as well. we want to shake hands with italy. i'm saying that specifically. italy is a founding member. but italy has also adopted many rules which we all now have as a legal basis. we can't just say we're not interested in that right now. i shall therefore say nothing more, but the commission has an important job to do here. i hope that in the discussions with the italian government we will also find solutions, and that is my earnest hope, as i have also told prime minister conte. i would like to say something about the hungarian criticism. you see, when there were very, very many refugees in hungary, viktor orbán asked the then austrian chancellor, werner faymann, and he asked me on a certain day if we were prepared to help hungary and take in refugees. we should not forget that when we present the history of migration. should we leave greece alone in an extremely difficult economic situation? should we leave the western balkan countries, which have a european perspective, to their own devices? or should we say in such a situation: we must protect our external border - as we did with the eu-turkey agreement - but in the meantime we must all share the burden! that is why we must be quite frank: hungary has not been able to protect its external border in 2015. i have never spoken against hungary taking on this obligation to guard its external borders, never. i have just stated that hungary could not do it, and because hungary could not do it, others jumped in. but now to be insulted every day for a request from hungary to austria and austria to germany is now also presented as if we had done something that was not right, i find that funny, and that must be considered in the presentation of history. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i feel that many countries, especially in central and eastern europe, are very concerned about this. the two-speed europe is also a europe in which member states can decide whether or not they want to cooperate in a particular matter. the schengen area is not shared by all the member states of the european union. that's the decision. some cooperation in internal security is not shared by all. not all have adopted the euro to date. we cannot now say to hungary and poland: you must now introduce the euro if you do not want to do so. that is why we have a europe of different speeds today. what's the big deal? there can be no closed shop. we must never allow an initiative to go ahead where germany, france and three others say: 'no other member state can take part in this, but it must always be open to all'. and then it's okay, but then we have a two-speed europe today. i would like to conclude by saying to mrs valenciano that we have two approaches. one believes that together we can solve many problems better -- not all, but many problems. not all problems have to go to the european parliament, but many problems do. and there is another group in this parliament which does not believe that. it is sitting here every day to make it clear that nation states can do better on their own. now, the point is that we don't say, "you have to do this", and then i say, "you have to do that". it is all those who are convinced that the multilateral project of europe - european integration - is the right answer to the lessons of history and the right answer to the challenges of the future, who must stand together in this fundamental conviction and fight together fairly and with respect for the right solutions. that is our task and i shall continue to work for it. thank you very much. (parliament adopted the resolution)
in writing. – dear chancellor, first, i would like to welcome your long-term commitment towards eu and its values, especially towards european integration and cohesion. your oftentimes proven diplomacy, reliability, and consensus-oriented pragmatism will be missed not only in europe, but also around the world. now that illiberal democracies, polarisation and policies of fear and exclusion threaten seriously our common project, it is time to address with courage directly what divides us. europe needs ambitious reforms, including a strong reinforcement of the cohesion policy, as you have well advocated, that only a homogenous europe could successfully compete with global powers such as china, russia or the united states. i stress that europe can easily come closer to its citizens by focusing more on policies where eu competences are limited but expectations are high, as health and education. in this way, we could provide practical responses to our citizens’ current concerns as well as eradicate populist and eurosceptic propaganda within our territories.
in writing. madam chancellor, you have presented what europe should be like. you spoke of solidarity, responsibility, respect for the rights of others, tolerance, the right to apply everywhere the same. who could disagree with that? you have a long political career, now you have announced that you are retiring, so i appeal to your honesty. do you think that everything you've said has and does apply? you are the main leader in the european council and you know how many unfair decisions have been made that violate exactly what you said! how can you explain the fact that there are two europeans, even though we have only one treaty? why is the schengen regulation being infringed with regard to romania and bulgaria? do you not think that it is precisely the differentiated treatment, the arrogance of some larger and older member states - such as germany - that has led to euroscepticism? you spoke about migration and the need for a common asylum procedure, but don't you think that this should have been considered before allowing uncontrolled access for migrants? i hope, madam chancellor, that at least now at the end of your term you will propose solutions that keep europe united, not tear it apart. loss of trust is hard to recover and sometimes, never.
in writing. madam chancellor, you mentioned the challenges facing the union and stressed that only together we can overcome them. economic development, job creation, defence, security and migration policies can only be implemented through the joint efforts of member states. for this, for a strong europe, we need an adequate european budget. the european parliament votes tomorrow on the 2021-2027 budget proposal with the absolutely necessary allocations for all horizontal policies. the european parliament is ready to work for this budget. of course, a decision in the european council is needed. therefore, madam chancellor, i ask you to support a decision on the european budget before the european elections in the european council.
in writing. the strength of the european construction lies in unity and solidarity. unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing discrimination by some member states, which will have the direct consequence of dividing the eu. the european construction has been increasingly tested in recent years by challenges such as brexit, terrorist attacks, waves of immigration and populist tendencies gaining ground. in addition, the double-speak at european level, visions such as a multi-speed europe, the sanctioning of member states through unfair resolutions, the support for policies that make the granting of european funds conditional on the respect of the rule of law, policies that affect the european states and regions that most need this funding, only increase the gap between eastern and western europe. in view of all this, i ask you, madam chancellor, what is your position on the direction the eu is heading and whether such selfish actions by european leaders do not affect the future of the eu? as a romanian mep, i ask you if the time has not come for romania to be fully part of the schengen area and i ask you as an important eu leader to support this in the european council.
yesterday’s minutes have been distributed. are there any comments? i declare yesterday’s minutes approved. *****
i would like to inform you that giving the floor in catch-the-eye is the prerogative of the president, so he is not obliged to give it to everybody. time was pressing so we should be understanding. i would like to read in romanian information that has to be brought to the attention of colleagues.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mr andrejs mamikins, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement (2017/2282 ((ini)) (a8-0320/2018) and- report by mr petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu-moldova association agreement (2017/2281 (ini)) (a8-0322/2018).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i wish to start by thanking parliament for its continued support for our eastern partners and helping associated countries to progress in implementing the reforms set out in the association agreements. before i enter into the specificities of the two countries, let me mention one very important element, a crucial part of our relations with these countries: our engagement with civil societies. the situation is different in the two countries, but they would like to thank the civil society partners that are monitoring the implementation of their association agreements. their contribution is highly valued. i welcome the draft reports prepared by the committee on foreign affairs and would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs mr mamikins and mr auštrevičius for their remarkable work. turning first to georgia. the report demonstrates the achievements in progress made in particular regarding reforms related to the implementation of the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. it also notes the positive trends in terms of closer links with the european union, which is georgia’s largest trade partner, representing almost one third of its total trade, as well as the most significant donor and the largest source of foreign direct investments. relations between the european union and georgia are close today. as a tangible sign we will be hosting a high-level meeting between members of the european commission and of the georgian government in brussels on 21 november, chaired by president juncker and prime minister bakhtadze. this meeting will provide a unique opportunity to discuss areas of future cooperation and driving the political association of economic integration process forward. on the eu side we will highlight the importance of working on the implementation and sustainability of reforms and increasing reform efforts in the area of law enforcement and justice. we will continue to focus our support on key areas for sustained growth in jobs with our programmes, and matching skills with the labour market and economic and business development. it is rightly pointed out in the report that some key structural reforms are still needed for a transparent and competitive economy that ultimately provides more jobs and economic perspectives for citizens. for instance, ensuring proper functioning of the labour market, an efficient social protection mechanism, strengthening economic governance and public financial management, and further improving the business environment and financial infrastructure. these efforts will also be supported through our macro-financial assistance of eur 45 million. payment of the first tranche is still foreseen for this year if the georgian parliament ratifies the memorandum of understanding in time. another area which requires further improvement is the system of checks and balances. against this background, we have been working with the georgian parliament to strengthen its oversight function. for instance, we are supporting the budget and finance committee on public finance policy reform and will continue to do so through a programme on governance and fiscal accountability which we are currently putting in place. additional support for parliamentary oversight of the security sector is planned as part of an overarching programme on security and the rule of law. this innovative programme on security will address many of the key issues identified as crucial in the report such as, for instance, supporting the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering; strengthening the capacity of state institutions to prevent and fight crime; and enhancing integrated border management. the actions foreseen also respond to the recommendations under the visa suspension mechanism. very closely linked to this is the need for further reform in the justice sector, as also clearly highlighted in the report. we will focus our support on commercial justice, which is one of the few areas where georgia still needs to undertake reforms. at the same time, effective implementation of human rights protection and anti-discrimination measures remain a challenge. we are also fully committed to a policy of non-recognition and engagement with georgia’s breakaway regions. our approach is to include these territories in our sector support programmes in georgia, where possible, as we are doing in the area of agriculture, rural development, for civil society, and for vocational education and training. furthermore, improving transport links and infrastructure, boosting energy resilience through strengthening energy interconnections, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy is a main priority for our work with georgia and the other partner countries. as you know, georgia is keen to enhance its participation in eu programmes and agencies. to respond to this, as well as to the great success of erasmus+, in georgia we have included a top-up of eur six million in this year’s assistance package, which will provide more young people, youth workers, students and academic staff from georgia with the opportunity to engage in more exchanges. thanks to this, we will be supporting some 700 additional mobility opportunities for academic staff and students. investment in youth is crucial. in early september i had the pleasure and privilege to open the first european school outside the european union in tbilisi for students from all six eastern partnership countries. this represents a very important milestone not only for georgia, but for the whole eastern partnership and the young. all of this demonstrates our very close relationship with georgia and you, the european parliament, have a key role to play in this. the georgian parliament and government are very closely following your work and they have paid considerable attention to this report. it’s also in your hands to ensure that georgia will wholeheartedly continue its reform efforts in all sectors. moving now to moldova, let me start by thanking this parliament for the continuous attention paid to the republic of moldova and for the ongoing work at political level and with civil society in particular. this is vital for our relations. i agree with the report’s finding that moldova has made some progress in economic reforms, fiscal consolidation and bank restructuring following the banking fraud exposed in 2014. the eu, together with other international institutions, provided substantial assistance to the signing and implementing of these reforms for the benefit of moldovan citizens. i also take positive note of the constant increase in bilateral trade between the eu and moldova. let me thank in particular, as you also do in your report, the people who continue to work hard for positive change in the country. they have a fundamental role to play in driving political and economic reforms. i reiterate our expectation that the government of moldova will provide them with an enabling environment to pursue their activities. at the same time, this report touches upon all of the key concerns of the european union: respect for the rule of law, ensuring free and fair elections, and the independence of media and civil society. as you know, the council shares these concerns, as clearly stated in the council conclusions on moldova adopted at the end of february. since then, there has been a worrying deterioration in the rule of law following in particular the invalidation of mayoral elections in chişinău. on this, the high representative and i immediately expressed strong concerns and called to take appropriate measures to ensure that the results of the elections reflect the will of the voters. the resolution adopted in this house on 5 july echoed our concerns. furthermore, and in line with the principle of strict conditionality, the commission put on hold payments under the macro-financial assistance and eu budget support programmes. i would like to assure you that in all our contacts with the authorities we consistently underline the need for the continuation of implementation of reforms for the benefit of moldovan citizens. in this respect, we expect immediate and urgent actions to be taken in the area of the prosecution of the banking fraud, the independence of the judicial system, the fight against high-level corruption, and the need to ensure that the next parliamentary elections are conducted in a free and fair manner. unfortunately, we haven’t seen progress on the moldovan side in addressing our main concerns. the eu remains committed to the implementation of the association agreement with the republic of moldova, and it expects the same level of commitment from the moldovan authorities. the eu is also committed to continuing to provide substantial assistance to moldovan citizens – i stress moldovan citizens. however, considering the lack of commitment of moldova to implementing agreed reform objectives, we proposed to reduce overall eu support to focus only on what will bring direct benefits to citizens and supporting agents of change, including civil society, independent media, reform-minded local authorities and smes. while this recalibration is being planned we are ready to come back to the level of assistance as initially planned, should the authorities deliver on their commitments taken within the association agreement. finally, we are all aware of the risks posed by the changes in electoral law on the multi-party system introduced by the moldovan parliament in spite of the recommendations of the venice commission and the recent invalidation of a mayoral election. let me stress that we expect the parliamentary elections, which are now scheduled for 24 february next year, to be free, fair and in line with international standards. we also expect that the banding recommendations will be addressed, in particular when it comes to non-biased coverage of candidates in the media, the registration of opposition candidates and respecting transparent rules for campaign financing. it will therefore be crucial to monitor the situation in the run-up to the elections and to continue passing coordinated messages concerning our expectations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we believe that georgia and moldova are key countries for the eu and they have both made – in particular georgia – incredible progress. think, for example, of the stability and democracy level reached by georgia as shown also in the very smooth presidential elections – even though we think that a former russian ambassador such as mr vashadze, the unm candidate, wouldn’t be a suitable georgian president. or think of the stability and growth of moldova after many years of instability, political crisis, continuous changes of government and the usd 1 billion theft. the vote on the two reports would have been better postponed to avoid interference with the current and forthcoming elections in the two countries. moreover, in the case of moldova, the content has been heavily influenced by the conservatives on the basis of their political interests rather than based on the real situation on the ground. we don’t want – and we cannot associate as a group to – this game. we agreed that many of the shortcomings that still need to be addressed in moldova will have to be addressed, but we cannot offer moldova and the golden plate to russia, completely forgetting the european interests and our strategic needs and closing all channels of communication. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr štětina, it’s hard for me to accept lessons when launched by the epp, because usually the epp is doing every day and on every case exactly the same. but still, as a romanian and a pro-european, it’s hard for me to believe that a former russian ambassador is the best choice for any country, be it georgia or any other.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i am certainly in favour of the association agreements with georgia and moldova. i hope, commissioner, that any political accidents will not interrupt the european path of these countries and that we will continue to have to deal with a coherent and very sustained discourse in support of the eastern partnership and not in ignoring it to the detriment of other policies or to the benefit of other policies. mr. štětina is right, the russian federation is violating the integrity of both countries and i think that we constantly in our speeches ignore this geopolitical reality. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the next elections will bring to power in georgia and moldova political forces which will continue to pursue the european path and which will one day not turn their backs on the european union, but will turn towards moscow, and we will be left without a purpose in such debates. there is no doubt that a number of progress has been made with regard to moldova. i can also understand the commission's concerns, but we will never support a state with such politicising speeches and reproaches.
mr president, in the last two years, the union has become the most important trading partner of the republic of moldova. at the same time, however, plahotniuc and oligarchs in moscow's service are destroying the rule of law and an independent judiciary. moldova is the poorest country in europe, but plahotniuc and his henchmen live in luxury. the invalidation of andrei nastase's election as mayor of chisinau, the pressure against the magistrates, the violation of human rights are reasons why the european funding given to the government must stop. the money needs to get to the people, and when the people take to the streets and demand justice, they need to know that we stand with them.
mr president, through this debate we are sending a very clear message to the citizens of the republic of moldova and the citizens of georgia that we stand with them on their path of european integration. we have these partnership agreements that need to be implemented. those association agreements were negotiated on an equal footing between the authorities of georgia and the authorities of the republic of moldova, on the one hand, and the european union, on the other. we want to help the citizens of the republic of moldova and the citizens of georgia but unfortunately we see that the authorities in chisinau, the government of the republic of moldova, are currently an obstacle to the european union's desire to help the citizens of the republic of moldova. if the government, if the chisinau authorities do not recognize free democratic elections for the chisinau city hall, it means that they are acting against the people. if they don't ensure the functioning of an independent judiciary, then they are acting against the people. if they don't allow citizens in the diaspora to vote freely, it means they are acting against the people. we will continue to be with concrete benefits alongside the citizens of the republic of moldova.
mr. president, moldova and georgia are alike in good and bad. it is good that there is still european ambition in chisinau and tbilisi, it is bad that politics is confiscated in both countries by oligarchs. it is good that elections are being held in georgia and moldova, but it is bad that citizens' right to information is being neglected, because politicians influence the media more than the media influence politicians. it's good that there's trade with the european union, but it's bad that justice is politicized and corruption is enormous. it is good that both countries have association agreements with the european union, but it is bad that moldova and georgia are only neighbours, not candidate countries. to take that extra step takes more than ambition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the republic of moldova, i say this loud and clear, so that everyone understands: the stability of the republic of moldova and its retention in the european orbit are key elements. now, the citizens of the republic of moldova expect from us a balanced, objective institutional report that analyses the implementation of the association agreement signed in 2014. in other words, a common message from the political groups in the european parliament. unfortunately, some of our colleagues in the "choir of mourners" are giving them a politicized text, a political press release, part of a communication strategy of the chisinau opposition for the legislative elections. what should have been an institutional message became a press release, through which some political groups in the european parliament express their positions towards the parties in chisinau. i will not support this move. my political group knows that things are not rosy in the republic of moldova. there are things we will discuss, but we will never take the citizens of the republic of moldova prisoner for narrow political interests.
mr president, commissioner, i want to say at the outset that, on the whole, i agree with the recommendations proposed for the two agreements. i would now like to refer to the agreement on the republic of moldova. i think that in the republic of moldova a red line was crossed with the invalidation of the elections for the mayor of chisinau. an action that has not received a satisfactory explanation even to this day. the european parliament cannot ignore these things, nor can other 'aliens' of moldovan democracy. there is a broad consensus on the political shortcomings of chisinau. however, there is much less understanding of the realities on the ground and the geopolitical arguments that the rapporteur considers unconvincing. the report uses the expression 'state captured by an oligarchic group'. in my opinion, it's much worse. it's not just about the state itself, it's about the citizens, who are captive and remain captive. for many citizens of the republic of moldova, freedom came only through the abolition of visas for european union states. the question is, how can we punish the oligarchs without sacrificing the citizens?
mr president, the european union is the largest investor and the main trading partner of the republic of moldova and the citizens of the republic of moldova look to the european union with hope. however, the cancellation of democratic elections, the control of the judiciary, the monopolisation of the media, the constant pressure on political opponents, civil society, journalists and independent judges are extremely worrying. it is unacceptable to cancel the elections for the mayor of chisinau and to adopt electoral legislation despite the recommendations of the venice commission, to persecute local leaders of the da platform and pas, not to investigate the theft of that billion and other things that are totally wrong with regard to the finances of the republic of moldova. unfortunately, all this is undoing the progress made in recent years by the republic of moldova and jeopardising what has been achieved, unfortunately, so far in relation to the european union and, perhaps most importantly, visa liberalisation.
mr president, it is important to support the european path of the two countries, but i would like to refer first of all to the republic of moldova. commissioner hahn, i consider the current position of the european commission on the suspension of financial support to the republic of moldova - the two tranches for judicial reform in 2017, the first tranche of macro-financial assistance for 2018 - as a big mistake, a strategic mistake at the moment, because this situation is already being used by pro-russian and anti-european parties in the republic of moldova. it is important to support the pro-european parties in the republic of moldova now, before the elections, and not afterwards, as the european commission's report and policy also states. it'll be too late! then, if the socialist party wins, together with mr. dodon they will take the republic of moldova into the eurasian union. it is time now to support the citizens of the republic of moldova in their march towards freedom, democracy and the european union.
mr president, commissioner hahn, i want to send a very clear message: i support the eu-moldova agreement. part of the moldovan citizens are romanian citizens. the union shall ensure that the union's external borders are not encroached upon by any third country. the eastern countries are not privileged and we saw this clearly today as we discussed the resolution on romania and how our colleagues in the european parliament understood to vote. but the eastern bloc must be encouraged. moldova, and we must not forget this, moldova is a border with russia, mr president, and the european union must pay attention to this. europe must help moldova to escape the influence of other countries. the european union is moldova's most important trading partner. not everything is perfect in moldova, of course, but we have to admit that progress has been made in this regard. we want to encourage moldova's integration into the european union. i stand with the moldovan citizens who don't have to suffer because of a loaded political agenda of others.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 november 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report of mrs sabine lösing, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp (2018/2157 (ini)) (a8-0335/2018).
mr president, i will refer to my country, romania. romania must apply the common position of the european union on the transfer and retransfer of arms, especially when it comes to weapons that do not correspond to end-user certificates, and also refuse export licenses if there is a risk of military equipment being used for other purposes. all member states must cease the supply of arms to saudi arabia and other members of the yemeni coalition and report accurately and fully all arms exports. why do we say that and why do we have this debate? for example, because the amount of weapons and ammunition that daesh has in syria and iraq, but that are manufactured in the european union, is alarming.
mr president, last but not least! i’d like to start by congratulating the rapporteur and by welcoming the proposal as the latter aims at strengthening national competition authorities, granting them more effective investigation, decision—making and sanctioning tools, considering that some national competition authorities do not have sufficient independence from political interference as well as all the tools they need to detect and tackle competition law infringements. i share the opinion that, in order to ensure protection of consumers and fair competition between companies in the internal market, strong and effective enforcement of eu anti—trust rules is of paramount importance. i believe that the new rules will ensure a level playing field in terms of powers and tools as all national competition authorities should have to properly enforce eu competition laws, investigate possible breaches and apply sanctions. finally, dear colleagues, i would like to pinpoint that i support full independence of national competition authorities so they can carry out their work without undue influence.
for the record, mr karas mentioned that they abstained, but that is a different story.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on humanitarian visas (2017/2270(inl)) (a8-0328/0000).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 november 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i agree with what you have said. you talked about data protection, you talked about consumer protection. i agree that we need to have a european code, but what do you think: are we in a situation where we have an infrastructure in all areas? what can we do about the countryside? what can we do with citizens who don't have the skills to use it? do you not think that this european code should also be supported by investment, by a budget for remote and rural areas for the knowledge and skills of citizens in operation?
mr president, the 2021-2027 financial framework will increase by 8% the european structural and cohesion funds for romania 27 billion euros that we can use to make real motorways, not on television, to build schools, kindergartens and hospitals, to use them to equip ourselves with modern equipment, so that when we enter a hospital, we leave healed and not dying, to be a people of healthy, educated and smart people. the current government has not used even 20% of the funds allocated to romania in 2014. the psd-alde coalition is not interested in education, health, highways that develop commercial and human mobility. they're only interested in attacking the rule of law and killing the free press. european romania does not mean empires for party bosses. i will fight for romania's place in europe at any cost.
mr president, i am convinced that we have seen many forms of state-sponsored cyberattacks and disinformation in the most recent major elections, from the ukraine crisis to brexit and catalan votes, and from the us elections to the italian and swedish ones, to name only a few. moreover, social media have accelerated the spread of fake news. we are facing a global phenomenon with a high political impact, but it is also important to say that we are dealing with the tools of warfare. so we can only expect this to happen during the next european elections as well. i don’t see any reason why it should not. the role of online platforms in the proliferation of conspiracy theories, disinformation and fake news is part of the kremlin’s ongoing influence campaign with the aim of undermining western values and democracy. in other cases, it is unclear where the attacks are coming from, but the sources appear to be mixed: everything from other countries to lone hackers. mr commissioner, the 2019 vote is consequential for our fate and future. these elections are so important that is not only a matter of actually preserving the vote from disruption, but also preserving it from any rumours, fraud and interference. all available digital radars should be focused on the european election infrastructure and systems that are part of the voting process, but also on foreign intelligence activities, notably the russian state-sponsored media outlet which operates in various member states. and, yes, do not forget the financing of the electoral campaign and the political parties and political leaders in some countries which are too close to moscow. ahead of the european elections in 2019, the eu response should face these extremely topical challenges. this has to change and rapidly, before it is too late. as a result of the requested strategic communication plan to address russia’s ongoing disinformation campaign, in 2015, east stratcom started working. it has only 18 people and does not even have its own budget to face all those challenges. let’s invest in stratcom and let’s invite the member states to work closely with stratcom to prevent this. finally, let me say that i call on the commission to analyse the current situation and to address the legal framework needed in order to prevent interference.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation gives us the opportunity to support more strongly the implementation of rail passenger rights. i believe that it is very important that rail transport is inclusive and accessible to all european citizens, especially people with disabilities or reduced mobility, and that this needs to be improved in all member states. given that we at european level want transport to be sustainable, clean and as efficient as possible, rail transport can gain ground over other modes of transport, especially by adequately safeguarding passenger rights. as regards the right to compensation, i consider that passengers using rail transport should be compensated and compensated fairly in the event of delays and cancellations. moreover, passengers must be entitled to full compensation for the entire journey, whether single or connecting. i also believe that in order to lay the foundations for a dynamic and efficient railway system, we must ensure its competitiveness in relation to air or road transport, all the more so if we want to achieve the objectives of a european multimodal and integrated transport. good luck with that.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on passenger rights and obligations comes after ten years. i had to. the number of passengers travelling by rail is and must be increasing, also in view of our general policy, commissioner of the european union, which is to move from road to rail. but for that, we must have the rights of the passengers guaranteed. i'm also a member of the imco committee, and obviously, we put a lot of emphasis on passenger rights there. i'm also on the tran committee. it is clear that this regulation has been improved in terms of passenger information, because often when you travel from one country to another, you do not know what it is about. it happened to me in paris. we need to eliminate those evasions to compensate the passenger when he creates a discomfort, but not only. accessibility needs to be improved for disabled people and people with reduced mobility, but why not for all people to be able to buy a train ticket anywhere. i hope we have a good vote on this report tomorrow.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the fruitful exchange. we all agree that every country has the right to manage its borders. we also agree that migrants’ human rights should be fully upheld. special attention should be given to the needs of the most vulnerable, including children and women, and, importantly, we also agreed that tackling the root causes of migration, including poverty, citizens’ security and governance—related, is essential. the eu will continue to closely follow the situation and use all the instruments available to support the countries of origin, to provide security and a future to their populations.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, last week the united states unilaterally re-imposed all the sanctions that they had removed thanks to the nuclear deal with iran, the joint comprehensive plan of action. on 2 november, the high representative issued a statement together with the foreign and finance ministers of germany, france and the united kingdom, expressing deep regret at this development. the sanctions re-imposed on 5 november cover a wide array of sectors and, together with the designation of some 700 individuals and entities, impact large parts of the iranian economy. as such, they are a serious challenge to the continued implementation of the plan of action. the re-imposition of us sanctions may also bring substantial collateral effects, in particular it could weigh on the region’s trade flows and energy supplies, connectivity and ultimately the security and stability of states such as iraq and afghanistan. let me begin this debate with a few general comments. first, we continue to support the joint comprehensive plan of action as its provisions continue to ensure that iran does not acquire material or equipment to develop a nuclear weapon. the deal with iran is working and delivering on its goal, namely ensuring that iran’s nuclear programme remains exclusively peaceful. this is an assessment based on scientific facts provided through a uniquely high number of inspections and 13 reports by the international atomic energy agency. moreover, there is no credible peaceful alternative to the joint comprehensive plan of action. the deal with iran is a key element of the global nuclear non-proliferation architecture. it is crucial for the security of europe, the region and the entire world. dismantling the agreement would not only destroy years of diplomatic efforts but also undermine other key multilateral negotiations in the nuclear field and beyond. it is a matter of security and it is a matter of credibility for the international community. for these reasons, the eu and its member states are determined to preserve it. we remain committed to the continued implementation of the nuclear deal in all its aspects and in particular we are at work to preserve the economic dividends arising from sanctions lifting. let me remind everyone that we are talking about economic benefits for the people of iran which constitute an essential part of the deal. as we remain committed to our side of the deal we also expect iran to continue implementing in full all its nuclear commitments under the plan of action. the european union has already taken a number of measures. first, we have updated our blocking statute to ensure that business decisions are not determined by the listed us extra-territorial legislation, which the union does not recognise as applicable to eu operators. the commission has significantly engaged with economic operators and member states on the implementation of the statute. second, we have extended the european investment bank’s lending mandate. this allows the bank to lend in iran in the future in line with relevant rules and procedures. thirdly, the european commission is elaborating a range of tools to strengthen the activities of small and medium sized enterprises between the eu and iran. we are working on technical exchanges to enhance trade, harmonisation of standards and due diligence and compliance efforts. i am aware of the high level of interest regarding the design and state of play of the special-purpose vehicle. we europeans cannot accept that a foreign power, not even our closest friend and ally, takes decisions over our legitimate trade with another country. the ongoing work, led by france, germany and the united kingdom, aims at preserving the full and effective implementation of the plan of action in all its aspects and in line with un security council resolution 2231. protecting legitimate trade is also a basic element of our own sovereignty and it is only natural that we are working in this direction. this is a hugely complex and unique undertaking requiring the best expertise available. technical work has been advancing over the last days and weeks under the political leadership of member states and supported by the eeas and the commission. our goal is to build something that is workable, effective and viable. the special-purpose vehicle is not directed against the united states. on the contrary, preserving the nuclear deal is essential to our common security both for europe, for the united states and for our friends in the middle east. the special-purpose vehicle is not circumventing sanctions. it is about working in full transparency, ensuring due diligence for the most rigorous standards on anti-money laundering and on countering the financing of terrorism in full respect of un security council resolutions and the primacy of the eu law. i am aware that many of you have concerns regarding iran’s foreign policy and respect for human rights. so does the european commission, but the plan of action was never meant to solve all of our disagreements with iran. we continue to voice our disagreements on iran’s security role in the region and its ballistic missile programme and we have engaged in a frank and active dialogue with iran on these issues. we maintain a range of eu autonomous restrictive measures. these include an arms embargo and measures against arms trade, against human rights violations, on iran’s support for the assad regime in syria and for terrorism. some of these issues are addressed through our eu-iran high-level dialogue. the eu has also led a dialogue together with france, germany, italy and the uk to engage iran constructively on regional issues. the last meeting of this group was convened in brussels on 12 september and discussed the situation in syria and yemen, and we hope to meet again before the end of the year. this is also very much about our own security and regional security, but none of these issues is linked to the plan of action and they would not be easier to deal with without it. preserving the nuclear deal with iran is an essential security interest for europe, for our region and for the whole world. so we will keep working to preserve a nuclear non-proliferation agreement that is working well, and to prevent a major security crisis in the middle east.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the european union cannot give a correct answer to the question of the extraterritorial effects that us sanctions against iran may have on european companies if we do not place this question in the wider political context of our political relations with iran. the situation we find ourselves in today, which forces us to defend the economic interests of european companies, is also, in my view, the consequence of an insufficient political response. we supported the need to continue the implementation of the nuclear agreement with iran as long as it respects its obligations, and well before the us withdrawal. the delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, of which i was a member, which visited tehran in february, carried this message. the reality is that before the decision of the united states on 8 may to withdraw from the agreement, we had a certain margin of manoeuvre to discuss seriously with the us government its concerns about the nuclear agreement and to find a solution that would have avoided today's discussion. the first conclusion i draw from this is that it is not too late. we should have a serious discussion with the united states. cooperation with them remains vital in responding to iran. the challenges we face together are many: curbing iran's nuclear ambitions, improving the dire human rights situation in iran and addressing the issues of iran's malign role in the conflict in syria, the threats against the state of israel, the iranian regime's support for terrorism and the plans to attack on european soil. all these subjects have become almost taboo, including in our parliament, where any attempt to discuss human rights in iran is systematically blocked by our socialist friends. the answer to defending the interests of european companies cannot be found in purely economic action, whether it be the establishment of a special entity or assistance to iran in response to the consequences of us sanctions. it must be above all in a coherent political action that does not isolate the different aspects of our relations with iran and does not exclude building bridges with the trump administration on this issue, again to the displeasure of our friends on the left. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. i have an answer, of course. ana has always been an exception within the socialist group, whether it is iran and the question of rights or, for example, socialist parties in the east, and in particular the romanian social democratic party. it has always taken a right position on this subject as well as on human rights and the terrible fate of socialism in the east.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 32 million children of pre-school age: the analysis shows that the situation of childcare - and not only childcare, but also care for the elderly - in the european union is not good. it's a failure, of course, of the member states, but also of the european union, because we have so many directives, so many regulations that actually don't achieve their purpose. we need the infrastructure. we need to allocate funds to rural areas, where there are the most children and where we don't have the capacity to provide them with effective and fair care. we need to ensure that women are paid fairly and equitably, because women are the majority of carers, and yes, we need to think about how we can institutionalize the situation, because, look, we have situations in finland, for example, where children are taken away and separated from their mothers and forcibly institutionalized. so we have a lot of work to do, and to do that fairly, we also need to improve women's pay and child rights legislation and elder care.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it’s very important that this report underlines the role of women at the care services within the context of the work-life balance proposal and emphasises the importance of the availability of diverse, quality, accessible and affordable care infrastructure and support for childcare and care for other dependents – either at home or in home-like situations. this is very important to have it in a report of the european parliament. i would like to underline the fact that the draft report discusses as well the targets for development of different services, and finally includes recommendations related to the funding of care infrastructure and services. the compromises found for the focus on the informal care sector an improvement of conditions in the formal care sector. in addition, my group, the s&d, underlined the need for investment by the public sector in care services as well as in awareness of the difficult situation of women working in this sector, having in mind the different familiar composition which leads to needing care. the s&d group also demands to set social progress indicators to be monitored in the context of the european semesters, in addition to be able to reach the barcelona targets.
mr president, many children in central and eastern european countries are at risk of not being effectively supported in their early ages in order to reach their full potential. if we want the future generation of the european union to form a healthier and more successful society we need to make early childhood development a priority. there is growing evidence that preventive education can generate lifelong changes in cognitive development and social behaviour when children reach adolescence and adulthood. early childhood intervention programmes can alleviate the issues of social exclusion, unemployment, poverty, and would also reduce the proportion of mental disease in member states. in romania, 40% of disabled children don’t attend any form of education, for instance. helping vulnerable children to develop at an early age, according to their needs, is part of a sustainable solution to social integration in the eu. i call on the eu to share best practices and i urge the commission to present a european carers programme that includes early childhood intervention services.
mr president, lyme disease, or the disease with a thousand faces, which affects the whole body, is the most common and widespread tick-borne disease in europe. our concern about the prevalence of lyme disease in europe is reflected in this resolution. we welcome the inclusion of lyme disease on the european list of communicable diseases, which will allow patients to benefit from a robust and structured health system for the rapid and reliable identification of lyme disease cases in the european union, as well as mutual assistance in the analysis and interpretation of the collected data. however, it should also be noted that this multifaceted disease requires additional funding than the european union has allocated so far, in order to increase research efforts for early detection, diagnosis and treatment of lyme disease. we also need more information and awareness campaigns for people at high risk, and campaigns to disseminate best practice in diagnosing and tracking lyme disease.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union is closely following the human rights situation in vietnam. vietnam has made significant economic and social progress over the past twenty years, which resulted in a substantial advancement in socio-economic rights. however, i personally underline that we share your concerns, parliament’s concerns, regarding political prisoners in the country. the frequent use of vaguely drafted national security provisions in vietnam’s penal code results in numerous arrests, sentencing and detention of vietnamese citizens who peacefully express their opinion both online and offline. as the european union, we systematically discuss our concerns over limitations to freedom of expression and freedom of religion with authorities, including at the highest levels, calling on the government to end persecution and harassment, and to release all peaceful advocates of human rights. the continued harassment and detention of an increasing number of human rights defenders is systematically raised during our annual human rights dialogue. this is also where we discuss a number of individual cases. moreover in hanoi, the eu regularly asks for the possibility to attend trials, to visit human rights defenders in prison or under house arrest, and insist on prisoners having access to legal counsel, medical care and, of course, family visits. we extend specific support to the government in order to strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. we share best practices with selected ministries, provide input to the national assembly on the legal framework including on the penal code, labour law and on cybersecurity, and promote joint actions with like-minded partners and countries. vietnam and the eu are committed to work towards a closer partnership by implementing the partnership and cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement. no doubt, a key tool is the institutional and legally binding linkage between the free trade agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement ensuring that respect for human rights is an essential element of the trade relations. the european union wants a prosperous vietnam, a country that respects the rule of law and human rights and honours its international commitments. while firmly stating that the negative trend of restricting the right to freedom of expression needs to be reversed, the eu stands ready to engage with vietnam to improve the human rights conditions in the country.
in writing. – in vietnam, human rights defenders and political activists face extreme hardship as they continue to be imprisoned, detained, and harassed by the vietnamese authorities. currently an estimated 160 activists are serving prison sentences, according to the vietnamese political prisoner database. freedom of the press, of expression and of peaceful assembly and the right to privacy are strongly restricted as the authorities abuse the repressive provisions embedded in the vietnamese criminal code these actions directly contradict the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which vietnam acceded in 1982. political intimidation, threats of prolonged prison sentences and the restrictions to freedoms are some factors resulting in vietnam’s rank of 175 out of 180 on the 2018 reporters without borders press freedom index. the vietnamese government needs to repeal all repressive laws, releasing human rights defenders and prisoners of conscious while providing them with appropriate medical and legal support in addition to trial monitoring. the comprehensive discussions between the eu and vietnam in human rights dialogue continue to be necessary as key instruments used to encourage vietnam in the implementation of human rights reforms. the european union must continue to press for concrete human rights improvements in vietnam.
in writing. – despite its economic progress, vietnam’s human rights situation remains dire. basic rights, including freedom of speech, opinion, the press, association, and religion, are restricted, while the criminal justice system lacks independence. in its relations with vietnam, the eu should pressure its important trading partner’s authorities to ease restrictions on civil and political rights and to act in defence of human rights activists calling for democracy and greater freedoms. in particular, it should firmly call on the vietnamese authorities to immediately and unconditionally release all human rights defenders and prisoners of conscience detained or sentenced, including hoang duc binh, nguyen nam phong, nguyen trung truc and le dinh luong.
mr. president, i would have liked to speak before the agenda began, but it's a very important topic for romania. on saturday, december 1, romania celebrates the centenary of the great union, that is, one hundred years since the formation of greater romania. it is an important event for romania, in which we celebrate the important role romania has in europe, as a strong country and regional leader. i'm sorry to interrupt your debate on the agenda, but i think it's an important event for an important country in the european union.
prime minister of denmark. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for sharing their views with me. it is not easy to respond because you brought many issues to the table. first of all, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for your very kind comments about the danish society model, flexicurity, etc. i think that is in response to some remarks given by good colleagues here, that is one of the reasons – because you asked me, which is right, the eurobarometer or the people’s consultations – i think that’s probably the secret why the danes are still so open-minded towards this idea of european cooperation and the single market, it is due to our social model. the fact that we, perhaps better than many other countries, have managed to redistribute what we have achieved from being a part of this more and more global economy. i think that should be a lesson learned, but not necessarily something we should then reinvent in a european context because countries are different. but it should be something that should inspire each of the 28 – unfortunately soon 27 – member countries to look inwards. how can we secure sound fiscal policy? how can we introduce flexicurity? how can we strike a balance between high taxation and at the same time citizens’ freedom to choose within services provided to the public, etc. i think that’s exactly why both figures are right. the danes are reluctant in certain aspects and are pragmatic and not as warm-blooded as perhaps you will find in other countries, and that is why political leaders will not make speeches like my good friend guy, but at the same time, they share these values. that is, i think, an important point to make. now, if you will excuse me, i will turn to my mother tongue in order to respond to some of the danes present here today. og det står lidt i kontrast, hr. vistisen og hr. kofoed, når man ligesom portrætterer det billede af den danske regering. der blev sagt, at der skulle gå 1200-et-eller-andet dage, før jeg bragte temaerne omkring mere fairness i den frie bevægelighed op i europa parlamentet, og det er jo rigtigt i den forstand, at det er første gang, jeg optræder i europa parlamentet. jeg har jo heller ikke været inviteret før, jeg er ikke medlem, så jeg har jo ikke rigtig haft mulighed for at komme lige her før. men det er jo ikke et rigtigt billede at tegne, at der ikke har været arbejdet med den sag, og hele denne sag handler jo altså om, hvordan vi – inden for visionen om den frie bevægelighed – sikrer, at befolkningen føler rimelighed, og at vi undgår løntrykkeri, social dumping, noget af det vi har set på den dansk-tyske grænse. det har der været arbejdet med, og det er jo rigtigt, hr. vistisen, at vi jo ikke har haft den store succes. jeg var selv glad ved, at vi op til den britiske folkeafstemning jo rent faktisk begyndte at nå nogle resultater. for under indtryk af en britisk folkeafstemning om brexit eller remain lykkedes det jo faktisk i rådet at lave et kompromis, som betød – under den forudsætning, at briterne stemte remain – at nogle af de danske prioriteter, f. eks omkring indekseringen af børnechecken, kunne sættes igennem. det er jo sådan set bare en ekstra grund til at beklage udkommet af den britiske folkeafstemning, og jeg bliver nødt til at sige, også i dette rum, at vi kommer til at genbesøge nogle af disse spørgsmål. og det bør vi jo gøre allerede i forbindelse med forordning 883, hvor jeg har noteret mig, at der nu er opbakning her i parlamentet til, at der kommer en generaldebat i parlamentet om den forordning. for vi skal finde de balancer, der gør, at vores befolkninger stadigvæk omfavner den frie bevægelighed. og det gør de ikke, hvis man optjener retten til dagpenge allerede efter én dag. det gør de ikke, hvis man kan hjemsende en børnecheck, der modsvarer mere end en månedsløn, til børn, der bor i et andet land, hvor leveomkostningerne er langt lavere end i f.eks danmark. og her er der en kæmpe opgave for parlamentet, som jeg håber, man vil gribe ud efter. jeg har jo lyttet nok til debatten allerede nu til at kunne konstatere, at der jo ikke i parlamentet er konsensus om alting, men der ligger en vigtig opgave for parlamentet her. så kunne jeg godt have lyst til at sige en bemærkning omkring de spørgsmål og kommentarer, der har været rejst fra forskellige sider, om en europæisk hær, den nye sikkerhedspolitisk situation, etc. we are living in a different security situation, that goes without saying: a more aggressive putin to the east – and i totally share what the vice-president said about russia’s aggression in ukraine – but it’s not only about russia, it’s also about what we experience in the middle east, in turkey, a us president who is not as engaged in world policy as one perhaps could wish, and we have to respond to this. but we have to respond to this in a clever way, and introducing this vision of a european army as something very operational, something that is kind of in competition with nato, that’s not, at least in my opinion, the right way to respond. we need to uphold this strong transatlantic defence cooperation. with the uk leaving the european union, i think the rest of us together will represent less than 20% of nato’s total capacity. so the idea that we should, among ourselves, be able to do something which can compete with the nato alliance, that’s not a good idea, but that’s not what is proposed either. so i think we should be careful in the way we use words. my perspective is that it is absolutely necessary that europe steps up – it’s about spending but it’s also about closer cooperation. but by doing so we have to be sure that we do not duplicate capacity that already exists in the nato framework. so we should stick to the idea of added value, and that’s not a european army in the sense that i think people will interpret the idea if you just say ‘a european army’. it’s all about closer cooperation in the defence industry, it’s about closer cooperation when we, for instance, go in and stabilise things after wars in neighbouring countries. and the reason why i have called for a debate in denmark about this defence opt-out is exactly this. we are known as a country who always participates and steps up. this is the case for aid: we haven’t reduced our aid actually, due to the growth in our economy our aid budget is increasing year on year. we are always ready to contribute soldiers to the nato framework, and if we develop in the future a different division of labour between nato and europe, then it will be from my perspective a disaster if danish soldiers wearing a nato cap can do the tough missions but then if we turn the tough missions into soft missions and stabilise nations – talking about nation-building within the european framework – then danish soldiers have to return home. that’s exactly why i raised this debate about a possible referendum sometime in the future about this defence opt-out. not joining a european army under the leadership of juncker, as was said, but a stronger cooperation between national defence capacities within the european union. given the time, i think i should bring this to a conclusion and just respond perhaps to one very concrete question about the nord stream, which is in my eyes, or in my opinion, linked to this discussion about the new security situation in europe. and that’s why i have been asking again and again and again – and i really hope that the parliament will give a big push towards this – for us to discuss this infrastructure project at a european level, because it is definitely a project which comes with some geopolitical implications as well. and honestly speaking, i must say that i think it shouldn’t be up to denmark, squeezed in between countries who have already given a clear ‘yes’ to this line, to take the final decision. so what we need is a european answer to that challenge. i think i will limit myself to these short comments and i’m looking forward to this catch-the-eye element. (applause)
mr. president, mr. prime minister - i expect you to put on your headphones, i'll speak in my language, at least for the fact that we're celebrating a hundred years. mr prime minister, i have tried to be present at all the presentations made by all the heads of state and government, because i want to understand what vision and what future of europe the council wants, the heads of state and government want. i must admit that i understood from your speech that you were very clear that denmark has its way, that you want the eight exceptions to continue, that at the same time you want labour mobility, but you are talking about social dumping. the only country that can dump is denmark, if you take a worker from my country and you don't pay him at the danish wage. also, contradictory, you say that you want to listen to the citizens and be in solidarity, but you talk about child benefits, which should be lowered because they are citizens of other countries who come to you. i want to ask you very specifically, and you haven't told us anything, what is your vision of the new multiannual financial framework? you haven't told us anything: what is your vision for the mobility package, very important things that concern us. you have not said anything to us: how do you see the future of europe, if we put the rule of law conditionally? of course, you are not afraid of a resolution: my country had a resolution. unfair, as a matter of fact.
madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, obviously this is an interesting and important subject for everyone, and we as members of parliament are obviously in favour of reducing emissions, but as has been said here, there are different levels of possibilities for the member states, and the commissioners have stressed here: we need investment in technology, investment in infrastructure. my question to the commission is: if we want to achieve these goals and not just be left with dreams on paper, how do you think the new multiannual financial framework will allocate resources to come up with modern technology, to be able to improve infrastructure and to be able to achieve these goals which are obviously beneficial for humanity? i have another question about the fact that the european union is leading the way in reducing new emissions, we are not alone here on the globe: what do you think, what can be done to make the other continents and the other institutions fight for their own emissions, globally?
mr president, commissioner, i think we have at least one conclusion: that the single market is important and that we have not completed it. so, based on these ideas, i'd like to add a few things to what we've discussed here, and maybe you can bring some new information in response. the functioning of the single market, of course, depends very much on other things that are not in your portfolio, i think the commission as a whole must work for the functioning of the single market. we still have a lot of problems with the customs union. if the customs union does not work in a unitary way, there are obviously effects on the single market. we have a single market segmentation. we don't have a single market, because we have schengen and non-schengen, we have euro and non-euro, we have problems with a lot of directives, late payments, for example, or the purchasing directive and i can give you many more examples, euro and non-euro. what we are proposing to do concretely, because we have very little achievement in my view, they have been nominated by colleagues, i will not say them, but perhaps in your answers you can, in summary, tell us what are the next things that we could solve in the single market, because here we need jobs, sustainability for smes, economic growth, in this global competition.
in writing. – the european single market is, unquestionably, one of the european union’s paramount achievements which significantly improves our citizens lives on a daily basis. however, our common market needs immediate adaptation to a fast-changing global economic environment, emerging business models and evolving digital technologies. i stress that existing fragmentations of the single market are to a high degree detrimental to eu’s overall global competitiveness and its role within a world-connected economy that gathers ambitious and aggressive actors. i strongly believe that a fast, feasible solution would be to focus on implementation, instead of new legislation, especially in those cases where transposition overlaps existing national laws and standards.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on behalf of the austrian presidency, it is my great pleasure to participate in your discussion on the series of annual reports from the commission, starting with the one on serbia. as you know, this year the western balkans have been in the spotlight of the european union, highlighted in particular by the eu leaders meeting with the western balkans leaders in sofia in may and the adoption of the council conclusions on enlargement and stabilisation and association process in june. during our presidency, we have continued to pursue the union’s engagement with the region, aiming to achieve further progress in the accession negotiations. this is one of the priorities of our presidency. serbia has made important progress since the last country report by the commission in 2016 and accession negotiations have advanced at a steady pace, as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur. we hope to keep up the momentum in serbia’s accession negotiations under our presidency by opening further negotiation chapters. in the june council conclusions, we welcomed the reaffirmed commitment of the serbian government to eu integration as its strategic objective. this also needs to be further demonstrated by serbia’s commitment to reforms, because progress on the rule of law and fundamental rights chapters, as well as on the normalisation of serbia’s relations with kosovo, as set out in the negotiation framework, is essential and will continue to determine the pace of accession negotiations overall. many areas which require further reform efforts are rightly spelt out in your draft resolution. the implementation of interim benchmarks for chapters 23 and 24 and of the respective action plans should continue to guide the reform process as the rule of law continues to be at the heart of the enlargement process. as you do in your draft resolution, we consider that serbia needs to significantly step up its reform efforts in this area and, in particular, to ensure the independence and overall efficiency of the judicial system. special focus should be put on tangible results and a sustainable track record, notably as regards the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering. the lack of progress in the area of freedom of expression raises increasing concerns. we strongly believe that the authorities should guarantee a safe climate conducive to the unhindered exercise of freedom of expression and the independence of the media as a matter of priority. serbia also needs to pay particular attention to full respect for fundamental rights, including the protection of the most vulnerable groups, as well as the non-discriminatory treatment of national minorities throughout serbia. guaranteeing the rule of law and fundamental rights would also contribute to improving the business environment in serbia and underpin the current positive economic developments and the continuous progress made in this area. the normalisation of relations with kosovo continues to be essential for the overall pace of negotiations. the council will continue to monitor closely serbia’s engagement towards visible and sustainable progress here so that serbia and kosovo can continue on their respective european paths. we continue to call on serbia to progressively align with eu common foreign and security policy, in line with the negotiation framework. serbia should also refrain from diverging from the eu common visa policy as serbia’s conclusion of visa liberalisation agreements with certain third countries has raised real concerns. we note that serbia has, in the meantime, revoked again its visa liberalisation regime with iran. we stress the importance of regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. we encourage serbia to continue sustained efforts to strengthen good neighbourly relations and to resolve outstanding bilateral issues. in this context, actions undermining regional cooperation are not helpful. we regret the introduction of tariffs by kosovo on products originating from serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. there is an urgent need for calm and de—escalation in the interest of the whole region. we welcome commissioner hahn’s offer of help to work on rapid practical solutions to the various trade issues at hand. i will conclude my intervention by again welcoming the continued progress in serbia’s eu accession negotiations and the continued good cooperation with the eu and within the region. finally, let me also recall our appreciation for the constructive contribution of parliament, and in particular of your rapporteur, david mcallister, to advance serbia’s accession process to the eu. i can assure you that we pay particular attention to the views of parliament in this regard.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, state secretary, i would like to congratulate, first and foremost, david mcallister for his outstanding report on serbia. this is a balanced and accurate assessment of serbia’s progress on its path to the european union. it’s also in line with the findings of our own report of april this year and the commission’s assessment since then. i share your view that serbia has made good progress towards eu membership. with 14 chapters opened and two provisionally closed, serbia’s prospects for joining the eu are tangible, and this shows our firm commitment to serbia’s eu path. this european perspective is even more important today when we witness a resurfacing of tensions between belgrade and priština. let me stress once again that both sides need to resume dialogue. there is no alternative to this if they want to make progress on their european paths. no country can join the union without having resolved outstanding bilateral issues. for serbia, this means that it needs to conclude a legally binding agreement with priština before it can join the union. however, let me also stress that the solution with kosovo is not the only prerequisite on serbia’s path to the union. reforms in the area of rule of law, fundamental rights and good governance, remain at the heart of the country’s accession process. and, similar to the findings in your report, we found a mixed picture in our recent assessment on the rule of law in serbia. serbia has adopted some important pieces of legislation and carried out necessary institutional reforms. however, delays have been building up in important areas and concrete results are still difficult to demonstrate. it’s therefore crucial that efforts increase in fields such as the reform of the judiciary, anti—corruption and fundamental rights, including media freedom. in addition, and this is particularly relevant for this house, we have concerns about the process of adopting legislation in the serbian parliament. the continued use of urgent procedures, as well as other practices, limits legislative scrutiny and debate. i also share your views that strategic communication is of key importance. it will ensure public support for european values and understanding of the benefits and obligations of eu accession. the union is by far serbia’s most important partner, including on assistance, and without any possible comparison with other global players. this needs to be put up in lights. finally, whatever the difficulties – and they are real – serbia should not lose sight of its eu membership goal. it should keep focusing on fundamental reforms, with continued eu support, and i really appreciate that the european parliament is on the same page. i thank you, not only for your attention, but for your strong commitment, engagement and support on the ground.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate david mcallister on his report to parliament. it is, as commissioner hahn said, a very balanced report. i would very much like serbia to become a member state of the european union in 2025, but there is certainly a lot to be done in this regard. i think that dialogue with the kosovars is a key dialogue. unfortunately, here are obstacles that we can only look at in awe. the recent decision by the kosovars to introduce duties on products from serbia and bosnia and herzegovina is a big mistake. the serbs are not getting any lower. i recently heard prime minister brnabić explain that srebrenica was not a genocide because only men and boys were killed, not women and girls. this is unacceptable and i am also aware that the parliament in banja luka has unfortunately decided to revoke the report declaring srebrenica a genocide. i believe that serbia's influence in bosnia and herzegovina and in the region in general must be positive, based on moderation, and any statement like the recent one by the prime minister in belgrade must be avoided.
mr president, i will start by congratulating david mcallister for his excellent and very balanced report. i would like to emphasise the most important thing, which is that serbia has made tremendous efforts to implement the most needed democratic reforms and serbia is to be judged on its own merits. this is the only way forward for the enlargement process to remain credible and give a clear perspective to the serbian people and to the people from the region as well. of course, there are still important steps to be taken in order to achieve the full alignment of serbia’s foreign and security policy with the eu one – and i am referring notably to the problems relating to its relations with russia. we socialists and democrats remain concerned about the situation regarding freedom of expression and freedom of the media. at the same time, i have to repeat, and i will never stop saying – people in belgrade, the ruling coalition, should treat the opposition fairly and should work with the opposition, in their country’s best interests. finally, i welcome serbia’s engagement in the normalisation of relations with kosovo. but in this situation i do condemn the decision taken by priština by increasing to 100% the taxes on imports from serbia and bosnia and herzegovina.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, severna makedonija has implemented robust, democratic reforms. they have taken a clear step towards good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation and the country is demonstrating every day its commitment to pursuing those efforts. today it is considered the candidate country that has made the most progress in aligning its legislation and its policy with the eu acquis. i trust that the prespa agreement, like now the pržino agreement, will be ratified, as it has to be, and will send a much needed positive signal for stability and reconciliation in the region. of course, there is no doubt this brave step by prime minister zaev paves the way for the country’s european integration. this being said, i want to tell you something else. i am very worried about the gruevski case. we urge hungary to reject the asylum request and immediately return mr gruevski. what hungary has done in this case is a dangerous precedent without any grounds for asylum. never in the history of the eu has a member state organised such an extraction operation. it is very important to make it clear that the european parliament and europe does not tolerate such actions. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague ivo vajgl on his report this year. i think it's a report that expresses very well the state of macedonia at the moment. personally, i regret that macedonia or north macedonia, i think we can already call it that way, has not received the signal to start negotiations since this summer. i think it was a mistake to postpone it for another year. in any case, the transformation of macedonia into north macedonia is the most important thing that has happened in the western balkans this year and i hope that greece will understand this and support what has happened in this candidate country. i hope, moreover, that the other member states will support macedonia. in particular, i don't think that what prime minister orbán has done recently is in support of macedonia. i think it's a big mistake to grant political asylum to gruevski. i would also remind you that the same hungarian prime minister granted asylum to a romanian mp, who, like gruevski, was also sentenced to life imprisonment and found asylum there. budapest is becoming a haven for corrupt people.
madam president, madam secretary of state, mr councillor, mr commissioner, i want to say from the outset that i support the report. it's a report that reflects reality. moreover, it was very clear from the presentation by the council representative, the commissioner and the other colleagues that macedonia had made progress. i know the country very well, i live in the western part of romania, i have visited the country many times, i wanted to invest there and i was surprised by the receptivity of the government, the institutions, the way they work, the transparency. so i think it's worth going on the european path and i think we have to vote and not delay any more, because any delay is actually holding back a european path of citizens who want it, are very ambitious and wish them a lot of success. you have my full support.
madam president, i welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur, and recognition of the progress achieved by albania over the last year. while examining the state of eu-albanian relations i consider it essential to emphasise albania’s solid commitment to the european union integration process, and in line with this i support the opening of its accession negotiations in 2019. the opening of negotiations will give us a tangible incentive for further developments in the positive perspective for the western balkans region as a whole. in this respect, i share the opinion that albania needs to keep the reform momentum, and to intensify its efforts to consolidate the reform achieved and to continue preparing for eu membership obligations across all chapters. therefore further strengthening is needed, especially of the administrative capacity of institutions and bodies responsible for the implementation of accession-related reforms, for the transposition of eu-legislation into national law, and for the preparations to be made for eu accession negotiations. to fight corruption has to be also a high... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, tonight i'd like to talk about the rule of law and double standards. the rule of law, commissioner, as defined by the commission, is totally different from what we, the national parliaments and the member states understand. the rule of law does not mean that the commission has to legislate. it does not mean that the heads of the commission institutions have to change. as recently, in the resolution for my country, these subsidiarity measures, which are not related to the european commission's tasks, were written for romania. i would like to say, commissioner, - and i am sorry that the council is not here - that there is a double standard. romania fulfils - and even the parliament has stated this since 8 june 2011 - all the conditions of the schengen regulation and is not in schengen. our citizens are treated as second-class citizens, the country is discriminated against, companies spend thousands of hours - and pay for it - at customs. why is there no decision to allow romania to join the schengen area? why do we have a two-state mcv system, a system that has nothing to do with the treaty. please, commissioner, take these things into account!
in the last few days, i have been in a region of europe which, for the last hundred years, has not always been one of the most peaceful and developed regions, but which is now one of the most peaceful. the question is south tyrol, a region of italy with a significant german population and a high degree of autonomy, which is now one of the most developed parts of italy and europe. the people living side by side did not always agree, they could not avoid the adversities of history, but through dialogue, negotiation, a series of consultations between italy and austria, taking into account each other's perspectives, they managed to give today a harmonious and peaceful example of the institution of territorial autonomy, and clearly brought stability to a region burdened by previous tensions. i am convinced that there are still multiethnic regions in europe, such as transylvania, which is now part of romania, where this well-established method would be needed, since a hundred years after the end of the first world war, national minorities have not disappeared from europe ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in september, the romanian government and meridian trade union confederation, one of the largest european trade union confederations, published a joint statement on the need for a just energy transition in the jiu valley and other coal-mining regions of the european union. the document calls on the european commission to extend beyond 31 december 2018 the legal framework for the granting of state aid for coal production. the closure of coal mines can only be achieved by strictly fulfilling the obligations of mining units towards their employees and the community, as well as those relating to the protection of the environment. thus, to avoid a major crisis in areas such as the jiu valley, on multiple levels, from the social to the ecological, an extension of the european council's legal framework no 787 of 2010 is necessary. the requested measure has the opinion of the european economic and social committee and is also not contrary to the objective of the european commission.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will not speak today about the romanians' counter-arguments to the cvm report, nor about the discretionary way in which you voted on the resolution on romania in the context of the much harsher behaviour of the french gendarmerie towards the protesters, but the european parliament did not sanction that country as it sanctioned my country. i'll just talk about a feeling that we romanians have. the romanian people feel that we are being unfairly treated by the provisions of the mcv report. this feeling of injustice will remain for a long time in the hearts of the romanians. why would you do that? romanian identity and pride in being romanian will reach its peak on december 1st. in exactly two days, romania celebrates the centenary of the great union, 100 years since we were recognized as one nation by europe and the whole world. in contrast, romanians say that the europe of today is unfair to them. it does not want to understand the limits of domestic action and does not want them as equal partners in the big european family. romanians will celebrate the centennial in two days, bearing in mind the unsubstantiated claims in the mcv report. the romanians won't be grateful to the european family this year. i ask you... (the president interrupted)
madam president, the cum-ex scandal has once again demonstrated that where the authorities turn a blind eye, investigative journalists bring the truth to the surface. they found out how 55 billion euros were stolen from honest people who pay their taxes. it took ten years for germany to change the law and prohibit the fraudulent return of dividend taxes. this is the problem in france and denmark and the netherlands and many other countries. but the authorities are hampered by cumbersome procedures, by inefficient collaboration, and the practical result is that those who steal from us, the criminals, go unpunished. how-ex is the biggest fraud in the history of europe and it shows us that we need a european response, firm, fast, now, yesterday, to stop this theft of public money.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the environment and climate change (life) and repealing regulation (ec) no 1293/2013 (com ((2018) 0385 c8-0249/2018 2018/0209 ((cod)) (a8-0397/2018).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, the european union is and must remain a leader in the field of environmental protection and biodiversity and in adapting european policies to climate change, which are very important for eu member states and for european citizens. one of the european union's instruments in this regard is the life programme. its objective is to contribute to the transition to a clean, circular, energy-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. this is done by promoting innovative techniques in the field of environmental policy. the life programme contributes to the union's objective of spending 25% of its overall budget on climate objectives. however, the european parliament has proposed to increase those amounts after 2020 to 30%, precisely in order to meet the proposed objectives. i believe it is important to send a strong signal to european citizens to implement the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals.
mr president, according to experts, climate change will continue to be one of the major challenges we will face in the coming years. it's not a myth. drought, heat waves and floods are becoming more common in all union countries. as a farmer, i can confirm once again that agriculture is one of the sectors most exposed to these changes, because it is dependent on weather conditions. in the context of the new multiannual financial framework, i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the life programme fund by almost 60% for the next period, 2021 2027. i welcome the approach to areas of vital importance to european citizens, such as nature, the environment and quality of life. of the 142 projects supported by the fund, and totalling eur 430 million, 28 successfully cover the agricultural sector. in particular, grants of eur 41 million support projects in the areas of climate change mitigation and adaptation. i hope that this success story will be an additional incentive to encourage access to funds through the life programme in the next financial year as well. i would like to make one further clarification and i hope that my message will be received by the commission. they want a solution for farmers who have restrictions to the natura 2000 sub-programme. they claim that they should be compensated for the production losses. our group has tabled an amendment to that effect and i ask all my colleagues to support it.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. public health and food safety are sensitive issues of concern to all european citizens. they are obviously always concerned about the transparency of decision-making on food or other products placed on the market. that is why the regulatory regime for food safety must be extremely serious in order to ensure its credibility and effectiveness. safety concerns have a huge impact on both consumer confidence and the stability of markets. in this context, i consider that there is a need to align the rules of efsa with those of other european agencies in terms of transparency. at the same time, we need to ensure that the studies carried out in third country laboratories meet the same quality standards as those in the european union. the mechanisms created must not, however, prejudice the economic interests of producers and allow for the piracy of ideas. we believe that the development of a preliminary opinion by efsa on the tested products would prevent this and open the way to a real public debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what are we really trying to do? at the request of the citizens, because we make public policies for the citizens, here is the commission coming up with a proposal to strengthen the authority of efsa, new rules for this agency, which, in fact, ensure the reduction of risk in the food chain. of course we have to strike a balance with the interests of industry here, but we cannot put it before the lives of citizens and the quality of the food we consume. that is why i believe we will be taking a step forward and i appreciate the commission's proposal. of course, we need more transparency, and there are ways to protect ideas and innovation. it is important to have very clear, transparent, known rules and the same set of rules to apply throughout the internal market. commissioner, can you also tell me what we do with food which is distributed, traded within the internal market, but is brought in from outside, from third countries, whether they have the same regime and how we can monitor this.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sergei stanishev, for this report. i also thank mr coelho for the old report, which says the same thing: romania and bulgaria should have been members of schengen a long time ago. romanian citizens, bulgarian citizens have been discriminated against for over 7 years. today we say here in the plenary and tomorrow we will vote to stop this discrimination of these citizens of ours, the romanians and the bulgarians. it is a simple political game played by the council, which did not even make the effort or the goodwill to come today to listen to our requests, but i am speaking to you, commissioner, and i hope you will tell the european commission not to accept, under any circumstances, any additional conditions for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. i ask you, commissioner, to tell president juncker and all the commissioners not to accept that romania and bulgaria are received only at the air and sea borders, but also at the land borders. why would you do that? because we meet all the technical criteria, because we have invested a lot of taxpayers' money both in romania and in the european union and in bulgaria to secure the european borders. and we do this very well, and mr coelho and his colleagues who have worked on the files know very well how well we work to secure the difficult borders of the european union. stop discrimination, dear colleagues in the council of the european union, and respect european law, as you demand of others.
mr president, commissioner, since i was elected to this parliament, i have been advocating the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, both myself and my romanian and bulgarian colleagues, as well as colleagues from other countries. the technical arguments have been repeated hundreds of times, parliament itself has voted several recommendations to the council to this effect, but the council has decided differently each time. the impression of our compatriots is that we are being held in the antechamber, like poor relatives of the european union. and yet the union's big problems come neither from bucharest nor from sofia. according to eurostat data, romania and bulgaria are the countries where citizens have the highest trust in the european union. should we lose our faith in the european project in order to be accepted in the schengen area? what we see is that the union has stopped at a point where the member states are no longer sovereign, but they are not equal either to be able to really talk about solidarity. we need to give momentum to the european project, we need reform and engagement, we need deep engagement of citizens. the admission of romania and bulgaria to schengen is a step in this direction.
mr president, there are very few to argue against the claim that the schengen area is one of the major achievements of european integration. as a powerful enabler of the free movement of persons, goods and services, it has brought significant benefits to european businesses and citizens. it especially allowed the latter to directly experience the four freedoms of the single market. it is not surprising, therefore, that they place it at the top of the most cherished eu accomplishments. all this makes the fact that 11 years after their accession, romania and bulgaria are still not members of the area difficult to understand and especially difficult to explain to the citizens of these countries. seven years have passed since the evaluation process confirmed that the two countries fulfilled the necessary conditions for the application of the schengen acquis in all areas, and romania and bulgaria are still not members of the borderless area. this is a fundamentally unequitable situation in the eu, not just because the two countries have invested massively to increase their law enforcement capacity to meet all technical compliance criteria, but also because the continued maintenance of border controls has a large negative impact on the economies of these two member states. just as importantly, the failure to apply the treaty provisions undermines the credibility of and erodes support for the eu – as recent eurobarometer surveys keep demonstrating. it is in the whole eu’s interest that the council treat all member states equally and grant fully-fledged schengen membership to these countries.
mr president, commissioner, i want to start by thanking all my colleagues, regardless of political group, who today, once again, are stressing with the rapporteur that romania and bulgaria meet all the conditions for being in the schengen area. in fact, the council itself, in 2011, agreed with the verification and evaluation done by specialists and it was found that, not only did it learn the lesson as a colleague said, romania and bulgaria spent, made investments to comply with the schengen regulation. unfortunately, the undisciplined student is not here, the board is not here. commissioner, we are in a critical situation with europe. what does the council really want? why are we, 750 meps, still here if 27 states, not 27 states, but one, two, three heads of state decide to violate a regulation that is very clear and that both states are complying with? we're talking about the freedom of movement of citizens, we're talking about the fact that there are economic losses, and we're talking about the fact that there is now a clear discrimination between states and between citizens of states. i think i will write a letter, i have written many letters and i have spoken many times on this subject to the council, proposing the dissolution of the european parliament. if democracy is upside down and a parliament, which has the greatest representativeness, has so many times a resolution and a view on this subject, if a commission has a view on this subject, if the evaluators and specialists say that we meet the conditions, why are political reasons being invented? because there are purely political reasons.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. free movement is a fundamental privilege of the european union. as early as 2011, the council concluded that romania and bulgaria fulfil all the technical conditions for access to the schengen area. today we are providers of peace, security and stability in the region, and this refusal to enter this space is likely to lead to the growth of populism and extremism in the region. in public debates, economic interests are discussed, which determine the position of countries such as the netherlands in the council. i would remind them that they are one of the largest investors in romania and they are suffering significant losses in this context. at the same time, let's not forget that the port of constanta was not and is not for sale. i know that in romania we have problems with disastrous governance, but the council must understand that access to the schengen area is not granted to a few ministers in the psd-alde government, but to millions of romanian citizens and romanian companies, who cannot be punished and must enjoy the same rights as all citizens of the european union. today, romania has the largest military contribution within the frontex agency. in other words, we're good at protecting the borders of the european union, but we're not good at being in schengen. the council has an obligation to respect the romanians and the bulgarians and must immediately welcome both states into this space.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time this year that we have voted for the admission of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. the previous resolution had no effect. why would you do that? because the council has not made any decision on this. and yet today the council is not in the chamber, even though this debate in the house, even though this resolution which we are going to vote on again, is mainly addressed to the council! it's the council that doesn't respect the rights of both countries. i also want to thank all the colleagues who voted for the previous resolution and ask again the european colleagues to vote in favour of accepting romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. this time, i think, it is necessary to set a deadline so that the citizens of the two countries can enjoy as much as possible the same rights that all european citizens have. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled the technical conditions for many years and are applying the rules for access to the schengen area and are cooperating very well with the member states in respect of their compliance and in detecting situations which contravene the specific legislation. i urge the acceptance of both countries into the schengen area and propose to set a specific deadline. let's talk with the cards on the table. romania has not been accepted into the schengen area until now because of the economic interest of some countries. but the european union belongs to all the member states, not just to some of them.
mr president, romania and bulgaria have been preparing for several years to become full members of the schengen system, but internal political issues in some schengen countries have prevented this from happening so far. as regards romania, there is also a concrete interest of an important country, the netherlands, which is defending a commercial advantage. yes, today romania has a big problem with an irresponsible government, which has a wrong rhetoric in relation to the european union and an even more wrong approach in the field of justice, the functioning of the rule of law, but also in the economy. but keeping romania out of the schengen area will give a lot of air to the nationalist-populist rhetoric or even the euro-cynical rhetoric of the current government. it would be right and just for romania and bulgaria to be part of the schengen system and this would be in the interest of the better functioning of the schengen system, but also of a better european construction. the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. it's very hard to understand why, today, although we have to talk or want to talk about romania and bulgaria joining schengen, we talk about how bad the economy is in romania, when we have the highest economic growth in the european union and that for many years under the social democratic government. we're talking about some untruths and we're talking off the topics. let's get used to it, dear fellow romanian mps, let's stop swearing, let's stop defaming this country, here in brussels! let's focus on what needs to happen here and what this report needs to mean, romania and bulgaria in schengen! the question is why are you doing this.
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. nobody has defamed romania, i did not do it in my speech. i said clearly and loudly that there is an image problem of romania today, due to the current government, which has a wrong rhetoric towards the european union, which does wrong things, first of all in the judiciary, but also in the economy, despite economic growth. this increase is squandered on certain expenditure which will not add value. but romania and bulgaria have the right to enter schengen. romania has the right to enter schengen and will enter, despite the irresponsibility of the current government.
mr president, in this most important democratic institution of the european union, we demand justice for romania and bulgaria. we demand justice for the romanian citizens and for the bulgarian citizens. we demand that romanian and bulgarian citizens no longer be discriminated against compared to other citizens of the european union. romania and bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen, fulfil the conditions for accession to the schengen area. they already behave and act as de facto members of the schengen area and manage thousands of kilometres of the external borders of the european union. how can we ensure the safety and security of european citizens when, at the external borders, romania and bulgaria are not members of schengen? how do we ensure security, when you see very clearly what's happening with terrorist attacks, with illegal immigration in europe? and they are calling for increased security for the european union. how is it possible to ensure this without romania and bulgaria? ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame we don't have the council present. please, mr president, please take note and ask why the council was not present today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a rather embarrassing situation for european integration that the council is missing a very important debate on european integration, namely the integration of the schengen area. but because we have the commission and the council here, we all know that they have repeatedly stated in recent years that both romania and bulgaria, as early as 2011, meet all the technical criteria for full integration into the schengen area. it should also be borne in mind that these two countries are part of the visa information system and the schengen information system, systems established precisely to better manage and protect the external borders of the european union. but paradoxically, if not absurdly, the council refuses to allow these two countries to be fully integrated into the schengen area. i therefore ask the council, even in absentia, to take a positive decision on this. it is time for certain member states - and i am mentioning here in particular the netherlands - to abandon the double standards and selfish political and economic interests that block romania's access to the schengen area. we can no longer tolerate such a situation and i will also transmit, as a romanian, that the port of constanta belongs to romania and romanians and is not for sale.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, ms sander. i was shadow rapporteur on the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) file. i would also like to thank the other rapporteurs for all the work that has been done together with the shadows. although vocational education and training plays a vital economic and social role in europe, leading to equal opportunities and social inclusion for all citizens, it is still not sufficiently developed in our union. vocational training (vt) systems need much more support and require more focus from all member states. this is why agencies like the european centre for the development of vocational training are so important. cedefop’s role is to contribute to the shaping and implementing of vt, but also to shaping skills and qualification policies at union level. the agency can do this by providing crucial evidence and services for policymaking and knowledge sharing among the union and national actors, in particular to governments and social partners. i believe that the revision of the function of this tripartite agency has been a very good one, and i fully appreciate the agency’s great work in supporting and developing inclusive and quality vt systems. now we have to work together to put in place the necessary money that can help their work to be successful and to use the full potential that they have.
madam president, please. the world is indeed undergoing a huge transformation, and education systems must adapt to digitization and the rapid and continuous evolution of technologies. this requires resources, and the transformation of education systems, the continuous training of teachers and the technical equipment of schools can only be achieved with considerable financial expenditure. member states should therefore allocate adequate budgetary resources to education. unfortunately, in some countries, these amounts still amount to less than 4 percent of gdp. while in the scandinavian countries this figure is 7-8%, in the last in this respect, romania, it is only 3.1. romania's falling behind is also worrying because bulgaria and greece, next in line, already spend a full percentage point more on education, 4.1 percent. these figures show that the underfunding of education systems in these countries may lead to further decline in the coming period.
in writing. – education has a vital role in our society, trainings and re-trainings should be available to everyone as it could be one of the best investments in the eu’s future. i totally agree that education is of strategic importance for employability, growth, competitiveness, innovation and social cohesion. however, digital transformation has a great impact on education systems just as much or even more than in other sectors. in the future, nearly all jobs, services as well as everyday activities, will require digital skills and data literacy; in the context of a rapid digital and societal transformation, the education system should support, from an early age and throughout life, a balanced set of skills and competences boosting individuals’ resilience, critical thinking, well-being, and innovation potential. synergy between relevant digital skills, soft skills and hard skills needs to be sought as soon as possible. furthermore, digital technology and access to data are enablers of innovation in education and open data is starting to become a very valuable educational resource. digital transformation offers many opportunities for education and the economy. however, it needs a proper policy response. i highly support a strategy at eu level to develop such a response.
madam president, please. the new european cultural agenda and the report on it also mention the importance of intercultural dialogue and the need to ensure the interoperability of cultures. this is also a key issue for national minorities in the european union. interculturality implies reciprocity, an interest in each other's culture. we are, however, seeing that in the countries where we live, we are expected to know the majority culture, which is also reflected in the compulsory curricula, but which do not include the culture of national minorities. moreover, in romania, the currently valid compulsory curriculum has hungarians in a clearly negative context. the culture, the living conditions, the peculiarities of the country's 1.3 million people are almost non-existent to the majority nation, as if they were not willing to take notice of us. interculturality is not about that, and in addition to cooperation between states, it would be important to promote and encourage the coming together of communities of different cultures living in the same state.
madam president, the danish government is preparing to take over the presidency of the council of the european union. it's a deeply anti-european government. the one who runs it refused to work with the commission. he recently announced that he would challenge the cvm report to the european court of justice. the romanian prime minister also ignored the resolution that we recently adopted in this house, saying that it was an electoral gesture by the epp and the s&d, the group of which she was a member for ten years. the more than seventy ministers in the psd-alde governments attend council meetings by 15-20%. none of them have ever said anything good about the european union. the deplorable quality of the current ministers and the undemocratic drift of the socialist-liberal regime weaken the union. the government controlled by dragnea is not capable, either intellectually or politically, of assuming the presidency of the council. i call for an urgent change of the bucharest executive and the formation of a technical cabinet of experts in european affairs and headed by one of the three commissioners that romania has sent over the last twelve years in the barroso and juncker colleges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the second half of this year has brought with it a series of social movements in several european countries. the "yellow vest" demonstrations in france are increasingly present in several western european countries. about two months ago, the european parliament passed a resolution condemning the romanian government and the bucharest police for intervening to restore order. in this context, and rightly so, now, after the intervention of the french and belgian gendarmes, which were at least as harsh, some of my compatriots are wondering why the european parliament does not have the same approach. the double standard and bias in dealing with similar cases risks becoming one of the factors that sow the seeds of europeans' distrust in the european project, in the european institutions, a fact on which both the parliament and the european commission should reflect long and take appropriate measures, the same for all.
madam president, in less than a month, twelve years after joining the european union, romania will take over the presidency of the council of the union. for my country, this is a historic moment, which crowns a period from accession to today. we are talking about another historic moment, after romania celebrated its centenary this year. the mandate facing my country is a difficult one, which is why i welcome the message from the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, who said that my country is ready to carry out this mission. i am confident that romania will do well in this task. i call on all my fellow meps from all political groups to support the report on romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. cohesion within the european union needs to increase, and this cannot realistically be achieved if some member states have fewer rights than others. i ask all the european union states to support the achievement of such legitimate objectives, both for the management of the files and for the period when romania will hold the presidency of the council of the european union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, i have noticed that you have only praised the council. can you tell us what are the results of the council and the austrian presidency that deserve this praise? because it was not present at a debate yesterday, the council usually chooses when and how to come to our meetings, to parliament, ignoring resolutions and letters from the commission. what are the results for which you commend the council and the austrian presidency?
madam president, mr juncker, i am also addressing the council, which today wants to tell us that a new council will be held on 14 december, at which decisions will be taken. i don't believe in this. here we are, finishing a term. in this mandate we have failed to solve the main problem - united europe, cohesion. although parliament has done its job, as the president said, the commission has largely done its job and agreed with parliament's resolutions, what is happening with the council? how will we have a united europe in the future if the council divides europe into two spaces, if the council does not accept the existence of the same rights, if it uses double standards, as was the case in the resolutions adopted for romania, as was the case in the schengen area, if it chooses when to come to work in parliament? what is the point of the european parliament? a worker has a job sheet and follows his assignments, he doesn't choose what to do and what not to do. unfortunately, i no longer have any confidence in the council.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i understand that you have criticised the existence of a budget in the euro area. how can you explain the existence of the european union, the future of the european union if we don't consolidate the budget in the euro area, and, of course, if we don't have a link between national budgets and the budget of the european union, if we want to have a future of the european union and have, of course, solidarity, have cohesion - how can these things exist?
madam president, i thank the council and the commission for the progress made in the development of economic and monetary union. but i believe that this union will never be complete as long as we still have member states which, years and years after joining the european union, have not taken all the measures they should have taken to prepare themselves to enter the euro area. moreover, there are people in these member states, in high places, who are concerned that a two-speed europe is being created by the fact that the euro area member states want to create the tools for this euro area to work as well as possible. that is why i believe that the next euro summit will also have to put the situation of these member states on the agenda, and ask them in concrete terms for clear action programmes with precise deadlines for adopting the euro.
mr president, i will vote for the report on education in the digital age because, among other advantages, digitalisation also represents an opportunity for education for all european citizens, and i am referring in particular to those who do not have easy access to the education system, such as european citizens in rural areas, in isolated regions, whose chance of education cannot be represented only by the traditional school in their home town, but by schools located at a great distance. for them, digitization would make a big difference and give them a chance at life, a new chance, mr. president. and i don't want to forget about those who are not mobile or who have difficulty moving because of medical conditions. and they have the right to education. and they have a right to the opportunity that digitalization in education can give them. and for them, digitization would make a huge difference from where we are today. digitalization is part of the education of the future. a high-performing education today cannot exist without digitization.
mr president, romania and bulgaria must join the schengen area because we meet all the technical conditions to formally be part of it. in reality, we are in schengen, it is through the schengen regulation of border protection of the schengen countries we introduced romania and bulgaria. so, again, we are actually protecting the borders of the european union. that is why we must go through with this reality and make it official. moreover, president juncker has stated on several occasions that he has set out to bring the two countries into the schengen area by the end of his mandate, which ends next year. it is also very important that schengen should not be linked to the cooperation and verification mechanism. this mechanism must continue until all the criteria and all the conditionalities, both for romania and for bulgaria, are actually met, because the mechanism is for the people. people don't want corruption, people want justice and so on, everything that's provided there.
madam president, terrorism is a major security challenge for european societies and european people. we have the obligation to protect our citizens’ right to life and safety. looking back to what happened in recent years, especially in europe, i’d like to underline a few of the errors and failures in the european security system to counter terrorism, such as the weak security systems in some eu countries, intelligence failures, lack of intelligence sharing, problems with the different judicial systems, failures and low results in fighting radicalisation and fundamentalism, online recruitment, insufficient resources and, in many cases, a lack of police intelligence and security institutions’ accountability and funding, and a lack of properly monitoring and defending eu external borders, especially not including countries like romania, bulgaria and croatia, which defend the external borders mainly of the european union. i welcome the report and i would like to add that the latter addresses the shortcomings measured earlier and focuses on strengthening the mechanism of cooperation information. last, but not least, fighting terrorism has to stay as a priority of the parliament.
madam president, it goes without saying that japan is a likeminded partner. considering the complex and challenging times we are facing in the global arena, it is strategically important to invest in more cooperation and alignment with japan on matters from trade to development, foreign affairs and environment. as has been stated before, we the european union – but overall we, the socialists and democrats – have been fighting for a long time now to ensure that this is a significant change in global trade policy and that the new trade agreements benefit not only the few, but the general population. all vulnerable people must be protected, and we must take the necessary measures to mitigate any potential negative effects of globalisation. this agreement goes in that direction and is better than all others negotiated before. the trade agreement with japan, as negotiated, allows us to support an open, fair and rule—based wto system, while promoting the highest standards in the asian pacific region, namely in the field of the environment, food safety, consumer protection and labour rights.
madam president, i am addressing you as a member of the european parliament delegation for relations with japan. the eu and japan account for 25% of the world economy and one—third of total world trade. this agreement – the largest ever concluded by the eu – is securing a large part of the economic and world trade system for free trade and multilateralism, now when these principles are not shared as unanimously as before. the japanese diet, the lower chamber, has already approved the agreement and the senate is preparing to do so at the moment. the agreement has a number of novelties, from dedicated chapters on corporate governance and smes, to sustainable development, gender and trade, as well as parliamentary oversight. in conclusion, i encourage my colleagues to vote for this important agreement.
rapporteur. – mr president, madam high representative, i think you know that the old order is over. the post—second world war order is ending. we are confronted with systemic challenges in which multilateralism stands to be substituted by unilateralism, free trade by protectionism and solidarity by self-interest, and the problem is that the kind of global challenges we stand confronted with require global answers, which are difficult to get in an increasingly fragmented international system. the report starts with an analysis of the strategic environment and underlines the importance of the transatlantic bond. i think you know that, here, it’s an appeal to everybody to try to preserve the functioning of the transatlantic bond, trying to separate the influences coming from the commercial area into the security area. we also mention the recent activities and policies of russia, which have reduced stability and changed the security environment. in all this picture, common security and defence policy is one of the useful tools for addressing many of these challenges. it would be used more efficiently and in coherence with other external and internal instruments. the security of eu member states is deeply interconnected, and the need for cooperation – although recognised – requires more to be done in that the respect. common security and defence policy (csdp) is reflecting an increased investment in security and defence as a matter of urgency, as it is requested in the global strategy, and we are asking you now to look seriously for the 2% to be allotted from the gdp for defence. we welcome the creation of a dedicated heading for defence in the commission’s multiannual financial framework proposal and, in particular, the establishment of a budget line from which the european defence fund and military mobility projects should be funded. this will require also the development of a well—defined overarching strategic approach to european defence, and here we reiterate our call for an eu security and defence white book. with respect to the capabilities of the union, we underline – like our colleagues – that the eu needs to apply the entire toolbox of available policy instruments from soft to hard power and from short-term measures to long—term policies, developing the necessary civilian and military capabilities as outlined in the global strategy. we consider that the eu member states must endeavour to improve military capabilities to cover the full spectrum of land, air, space, maritime and cyber capabilities, including strategic enablers to make the eu csdp a credible force. in this respect, we recognise the strategic dimension of the space sector, and we encourage movement in that respect. we consider that the capabilities of union security and defence could be improved by making better use of the existing frameworks of defence and military cooperation, such as the european multinational high readiness corps’ headquarters and the eu battlegroups, reinforcing but not duplicating similar initiatives with nato, and we are asking for the transformation of national armed forces into forces that are more interoperable, more sustainable, more flexible and more deployable. i would conclude by saying that we support the array of missions which are undertaken already and we also ask for a parliamentary oversight of an increasing attention paid to security and defence.
mr president, i think it is good to remind citizens before the european elections that the common foreign and security policy is not an incidental policy but a policy which affects their lives and their security. the cfsp is indeed fundamental to the very future of the european union and, as mr mcallister's report very well says, it is high time that europe took its destiny into its own hands and assumed its role as a political and economic power on the world stage. my group has always advocated a strong political europe with an international presence, both to safeguard its interests and to promote the values on which it is founded. i have always supported the unity, coherence and effectiveness of the union's foreign and security policy. greater solidarity and coordination between member states and the allocation of sufficient financial resources are essential to this end. finally, i would mention the western balkans and our neighbourhood as a major political priority.
mr president, in today’s world, all that seemed to be a certainty not long ago is not anymore. the european union means peace, but peace needs the tools to guarantee it. we are finally moving in the right direction with pesco, and i strongly advocate for the adoption of the provisions on the european defence fund and on defence mobility for the next mff. however, there is no doubt that we need more. the eu needs strategic autonomy and the integration of its defence capabilities to face its many challenges, from conventional ones to hybrid and cyber threats, and to effectively pursue our foreign policy objectives. i want to be clear that defence integration should under no circumstances be seen as an alternative to nato. nato is fundamental for the protection of the eu and for the protection of the european citizens today and in the future. we must rather reinforce and complement it in line with the eu-nato declaration.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would also like to thank federica for all the support we are receiving. i would also like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs who have been supportive. i think you know that it is evident that we live in interesting times and i am very happy for those who believe that we can still afford conversion, disarmament and these good things, but i am afraid that we are beyond that and we have to really continue what we have started to do. we are moving in the right direction. perhaps the pace is not, shall we say, the most appropriate. but we are moving in the right direction, and i am convinced that our colleagues who would follow us in this parliament would continue our work. it will probably be more difficult to get the acceptance but i am sure that if they are really conscious enough they will push in the direction which has already been started.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, just a couple of weeks ago we celebrated together the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights at the european parliament in the hemicycle in brussels and we decided to celebrate it with human rights defenders and civil society organisations who are working every single day to turn the principles of the declaration into action. we know that too many people around the world do not enjoy all the rights that are recognised by the universal declaration – this is still work in progress. the report that we discussed today describes a global pushback against democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i would like to thank the rapporteur, petras, for this work, which is excellent. i'm glad to see that, once again, the report by the european parliament resonates with the one adopted by the foreign affairs council last spring. we agreed that we face new challenges in our work to protect and advance human rights and, against new challenges, you are right to discuss new ways and new instruments to make our action even more effective. the european union – you said it well – is, and will continue to be, the leading global actor in the promotion and protection of human rights and democracy. already today the european instrument for democracy and human rights is the largest financial instrument in the world with this focus. with these resources we address violations, we provide a lifeline to human rights defenders, we empower those were at the margins of societies. every day we try to take a little step further to turn the universal declaration into reality because we know that a little step further makes a lot of difference for the people involved. let me give you a concrete example. in your report you highlight the need to combat violence against women. just a couple of weeks ago i had the pleasure of meeting again and welcoming to brussels the nobel peace prize laureates denis mukwege and nadia murad. i had already met both of them here in strasbourg where you awarded them the sakharov prize, so let me say that this is yet another demonstration that the sakharov prize is truly shaping the global conversation about human rights. this year's prize to oleg sentsov is also important to keep a strong focus on the illegal annexation of crimea and its consequences. we had worked with denis and nadia since they received the sakharov prize. last month i invited them to join our meeting of the development ministers of the european union. together, we decided to invest eur 1 million in nadia’s initiative for stabilisation and reconstruction in some areas of iraq and another eur 4 million to support denis’ hospital for victims of sexual violence. it is a small gesture to support two powerful symbols of the fight for women's rights and, on top of this, let me remind everyone about our broader commitment. with the spotlight initiative we have launched the largest-ever programme to stop violence against women in the world, with eur 500 million invested. but working on human rights is not just a matter of financial resources. human rights are an essential component of all our policies, as you said: from trade policies to our engagement on security and defence, from our human rights dialogues including with difficult countries, to the work we do at the united nations and with other regional organisations. electoral observation is also a vital part of this work with the crucial engagement of this parliament, because we all know that democracy is never achieved once and for all and it has to be invested into constantly through every election as well as in the time between the elections. i am particularly glad that the report acknowledges the excellent work done over the years by our special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, sitting next to me now. his mandate will soon come to an end a few months from now. so let me thank him once again for his relentless engagement with governments and civil society organisations all around the world, as well as his role in shaping the good human rights stories initiative.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the report prepared by our colleague petras auštrevičius is a truly strategic report from the point of view of parliament's contribution to the union's human rights policy. i am glad to see that many of my amendments have been incorporated into the text. the aim was, among other things, to strengthen the instruments we already have, such as the function of the special representative for human rights, the dialogue on rights and our guidelines. in my amendments, i also stressed the issue of the prevention of genocide and crimes against humanity, stressing the importance of better taking into account at international level the role of non-state actors. finally, i particularly wanted to highlight the importance of the issue of democracy, stressing the need to provide more support for political and judicial reforms in the enlargement and neighbourhood countries, as well as to strengthen and promote our election observation missions, to name just a few.
in writing. – four years after signing the eu association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, ukraine’s commitment to deepen its political and economic european integration is undoubtable. after its first full year in force, this agreement increased significantly bilateral trade and generated encouraging reforms in relevant areas such as decentralisation, the judiciary, energy, health, education and pensions. like their neighbours in the republic of moldova, ukrainian citizens extraordinarily welcomed the successful implementation of the visa—free regime, which registers up to present over a half of million ukrainians using their right to enter schengen visa—free. i welcome the progress made by the ukrainian authorities within the association agreement despite the worrying challenges they face and i express deep concerns regarding the escalation at the kerch strait and the azov sea. i call, consequently, on the european union and our international partners to enhance our collective support for the affected areas.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council, welcome back to the european parliament. i would like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs, my colleague daniele viotti, paul rübig, the commissioner and the austrian presidency, for having delivered again a budget for the european union on time before the beginning of next year. i know how difficult it is to agree on a budget because we want to do good, we want to finance the priorities, we have limited resources, we want to fulfil the expectations of the people. therefore, one very important element in order also to avoid difficult situations like this in the years to come, is to agree on what the european union should deliver in the upcoming years, and the next negotiations for the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2021—2027 should provide a good opportunity for this. we should firstly agree on what we expect the european union should deliver and then equip it with the right tools in order to avoid situations like this, where parliament on the one side, and the council on the other side, are trying to either reduce or increase the amount for certain areas. the second thing i would like to see is research and innovation. this is essential if we want to stay competitive in the global area. i would just like to draw your attention to the much lower success rate in this mff with regards to horizon 2020 projects compared to the past mff, which means that we can finance fewer projects than in the past mff. many good projects demand financing. this is why i strongly call upon the council to apply article 15.3, which allows for the reuse of resources allocated to horizon 2020 in the next year.
the reporter. mr president, i thank president tajani for this speech. i want to express my regret for what happened and is still happening in the centre of strasbourg. i also thank my colleagues for the collaboration we had in producing this report. i think the tran committee voted on a very good dossier, it's a balanced proposal. firstly, we propose to increase the budget for transport infrastructure in europe by another 6 billion, which i think is absolutely necessary. also, for more predictability and to have much better prepared projects, we propose that the commission comes in 2020 with a framework programme that shows what will happen in the next 7 years, so that member states and other interested beneficiaries can prepare very well, to submit very well done projects. i also proposed rules for the use of the money for military mobility, because there were no rules proposed by the commission, so as to ensure a fair use of this money for both civilian and defence purposes. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. we also ask for transparency, we ask for a real-time presentation of the projects that are in progress on the commission's website: who is funding them - the commission through the cef or the member states through the cohesion and regional development funds and, of course, from the national budgets, so that we can have a full picture of the completion of the european corridors. it's, again, very important this. we have re-worded the commission's proposal on the amounts transferred from cohesion to transport policy, to the connecting europe facility, so that we give the cohesion countries the possibility to use the money according to the national envelope for 2 years and then, if they have not used the money, to transfer it to a common fund for all cohesion countries and, on a competitive system, to allocate this money to projects. there is also a proposal in plenary, which has not been voted on in the committee on transport, for a new figure on the shift from cohesion to transport policy. i think that in the end the final decision must be taken by the regi committee, i mean the parliament's position, because they decide what amount will be allocated to transport policy. so in conclusion, i think it's a proposal from the transport committee that should be supported in the plenary of this parliament, because it brings great benefits to both transport and the other sectors - digital and energy.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her intervention and especially that she is supporting the committee proposal regarding the spending of the cohesion money transferred from cohesion to the connecting europe facility (cef). we are glad that there is already a general approach, a partial one but there is a text in the council so we are ready to start the negotiations anytime in january. as you have seen, we are a strong team, together with the shadows here, so we shall negotiate very hard. i can tell you that we do not accept that part of the text of the cef was introduced in the negotiating box, in the mff. we are in co—decision, so we have to respect the treaty. we shall try to negotiate all the text in our discussions and not wait for a decision of the european council. this is the second time that the council has tried this; six years ago they did it already, but this time i think that parliament will be tougher than six years ago. i hope that we shall get a mandate tomorrow. the result doesn’t matter but we shall have a mandate – i was speaking about the details – and again, we are ready to start negotiations in early january. thank you again to all colleagues, to co—rapporteur mr telička and all the shadows, i think that we have done a very good job.
mr president, for years, mainly due to the crisis, the eu has looked inwards, neglecting both the negative developments around it and our defence against them. starting in 2013, but especially after the adoption of the eu global strategy and the bratislava summit in 2016, the eu has stepped up considerably its efforts to correct the situation, adopting an important number of measures and initiatives. in this respect, the european defence fund (edf) and its iterations on research, and the european defence industrial development programme (edidp) are credible capability development initiatives, expected to be strong enablers of closer european cooperation with a view to closing gaps, developing future-oriented capabilities, and thus meeting the agreed eu level of ambition. however, all these positive contributions to edf, to closer eu defence cooperation, are not unanimously supported. some, in good faith, believe we move too fast, with what they perceive as the result of militarising the eu. others, in not so good faith, want to stop the edf completely or saddle it with unacceptable conditions which will make it inoperable. like, for instance, modifying the agreed ethical requirements in a way that the edf should be supervised by members of ngos who will have the power to cancel the projects they consider unethical. to this, i would remind the house of our duty to protect european citizens, which cannot be fulfilled if the only beneficiaries of such proposals –blocking the development of our defence capabilities – would be the eu’s arch—enemies seeking its dissolution.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here in these extraordinary circumstances to discuss horizon europe, the future framework programme for research and innovation. horizon europe must be a clear, simple and fast-track programme, ambitious enough to meet the challenges facing the union. if we want to make the european union a true global research and innovation leader, the budget must be commensurate with the challenge. at least eur 120 billion (in constant prices) is needed. we cannot afford to have the european union fall behind its main competitors. through science, innovation and fundamental research, europe can become more competitive and remain at the forefront of global research and innovation, creating quality jobs. at the same time, significantly reducing the research and innovation gap at union level, in particular by increasing the participation in horizon europe of member states with lower research and innovation performance compared to the previous framework, will allow the union to maximise its research and development potential. i would stress that the principle of excellence remains the basic principle in the selection of all projects and i do not consider that excellence is only in certain parts of europe. excellence must be supported and promoted throughout the union. a key element is that at least 35% of the total budget of this programme is allocated to supporting the european union's climate objectives, which will stimulate greener products with sustainable added value for end-users. it is also important to continue the sme instrument in a form as close as possible to that of horizon 2020. the commission's innovative elements and parliament's support, such as the eic, the european innovation council and the missions, will have to contribute to the competitiveness of the european union on the one hand and to tangible results for all european citizens on the other. i would like to congratulate commissioner moedas and at the same time tell him that the european parliament has followed the same idea that this revolutionary instrument which can make the difference to the european union's status as a major competitor on the research market is the eic. i would ask the commissioner to continue to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eic will be an instrument to finance non-bankable, high-risk projects and that there will be no bureaucratic obstacles, including clear and unambiguous wording; these will be the instruments we can have at our disposal for the future financial framework. there is great hope, there is something that nobody has had the courage to address at this level so far and it is a pity that you are not going to do it, commissioner, and the european parliament has supported you and supports you unconditionally, because this instrument, we believe, will be able to make the difference as regards the entity with the best research performance the european union versus competitors, the united states and others. at the same time, because we are talking about administrative simplification, please, commissioner, make sure that what you have stated and we have argued that there will be real administrative simplification will happen starting with the subsequent research framework. horizon europe should be an example of simple administrative procedures so that anyone can apply without having to have an army of people working on it or decoding a documentation. your goal, our goal, is to have money available to people who are working on research, and not to torture them into reading hundreds of pages or needing an army of consultants when they want to apply for this program. i know you're against this, and i'm confident that you'll do everything in your power to make sure that doesn't happen.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, following the attack, the shooting tonight in strasbourg, i would like to express my sincere condolences to all the families and above all to say that i am wholeheartedly with france in these difficult times, and i salute the presidency, which is continuing the work here in the european parliament. i would like to first of all, express my gratitude for being here tonight. i want to sincerely tell all of you how happy i am for the vote on 21 november in the itre committee. let me thank you personally: chair jerzy buzek and both of the rapporteurs, dan nica and christian ehler, as well as all their shadow rapporteurs. they have done an exceptional job, at political level by building such a large consensus with all political parties on 128 compromises, and at a technical level by doing it in a record time. they achieved such a positive result, both in the itre committee and in all the other eight parliamentary committees that contributed to the process. so you have managed in parliament to address horizon europe with both quality and speed, and i hope that tomorrow this house will confirm this position by giving you the political mandate to start the negotiations. it really is a remarkable achievement, and i will quote mr ehler: this is about the well-being of people innovation, science is about well-being, and this is the largest ever programme for research and innovation. we also have good news from the council, which on 30 november adopted a partial general approach on the framework programme regulation. here, i have to take a moment to thank the austrian presidency for their commitment to achieving this important result. i would also like to highlight the role played by the opinions delivered by the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. i am pleased to see that, broadly, we agree. broadly, we agree on the key elements of the commission's proposal and with your comments. first, on an ambitious budget: you have proposed to raise our proposal to eur 120 billion. the excellence principle as the cornerstone of this programme. the three-pillar structure that changes from this idea of sectors to an approach of clusters: cross-cutting, interdisciplinary, as science should be. the mission-driven science. the european innovation council the new approach to partnerships, increasing the participation of newcomers in the rationalization of the existing partnerships. as mr nica said, more simplification is the objective of horizon europe for the rules of participation, to make life easier for scientists and of course the earmarking of the 35% of the budget for climate related actions. finally, as you know there are a number of provisions in our proposal relating to the mff which depend on the progress of other sectoral proposals: the budget, international cooperation, and the synergies, and these issues will be addressed in a coordinated manner for all concerned. but once again i would like to thank the european parliament for this important work. thank you for your attention, and thank you also for your dedication and commitment to science.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, horizon europe will be the flagship of the union's ninth framework programme for research and innovation. i congratulate the two rapporteurs - mr ehler and mr nica - and, as rapporteur for the envi committee, i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for their cooperation. the main amendments to envi were taken up by the itre committee and concern the alignment of the objectives of the programme with the paris agreement on climate change and the contribution of up to 35% of the total programme funds to support climate change. by increasing the total budget to €120 billion and the budget for the health cluster will increase from €7.7 billion to €9.79 billion. i want to emphasise that one of the first missions and therefore an absolute priority of health research will be to eradicate paediatric cancer by 2040, as we need innovative solutions for the future generations of europe. i would have liked to see more ambition in terms of the definition of the tasks and their scope, more approval of the compromise reached in envi, but i recognise that significant progress has been made compared to the commission's original text.
the reporter. mr president, i would first of all like to thank those who have worked hard on this report, the alternative rapporteurs, the experts i had in the itre committee, in my political group and the other colleagues, because it was an extraordinary effort to finish in six months the work on this report. at the same time, i would like to ask commissioner moedas (and i thank him for the reference to the principle of innovation): perhaps a reference whether this principle of innovation would in any way allow the use of pesticides which are harmful to health, whether it would allow - what have we heard? - whether it would allow medical experiments of nature to endanger human life in a way which is not in accordance with european legislation. there's been a lot of things going around on the internet, and i think it's a welcome clarification from you, so we know exactly what the principle of innovation is. and it was a shock to me to see that for five days now, everyone has been talking about the principle of innovation, bringing accusations that they want to poison the population of europe, at least, if not the world. secondly, i would like to ask you something else: you have a mechanism called technical assistance. i think it is important to launch this mechanism, especially for the countries that are part of the widening mechanism, for better preparation and better explanation of the horizon europe project and i think that this should start, if i may, tomorrow. the more these things are known, the more your goal of reducing the gap between the least and the most successful countries will be achieved and your goal and ours, i might say, of making this program more known would be easily achieved. in the hope of a positive response and in response to this request, i congratulate you once again on the courage you have shown in tackling this project.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president anastasiades to the european parliament, and i will start by reiterating what is most important. cyprus is an important member state of the european union and the future of reform in a united, prosperous europe depends on the success of cyprus. the stability and security of all member states and the well-being of european citizens, including all greek and turkish cypriots, are a priority and should remain a priority for us. i was very hopeful the last time we met, mr president, believing that, at a time when europe was facing many challenges and disappointments, cyprus would be a success story, that the greek and turkish cypriots would be the ones to overcome divisions and hate. i must admit that the failure of the talks in crans-montana saddened all of us. my political group, the socialists and democrats, remains committed to the reunification of cyprus, as, i believe, the european parliament does. we are committed to a stable and lasting solution, based on eu values and on all eu and relevant resolutions, but, most of all, to a solution that benefits the citizens living in cyprus, be they greek or turkish, who are worried about the current deadlock in the negotiations. and we call on you, mr president, on your vision and on your courage, to overcome the deadlock and to explore any possibility of resuming talks and ensuring clear terms of reference that will enable swift results. i think this will be a major breakthrough, and the cypriot people deserve that. the eu is ready to back you in all of these very difficult endeavours. i can assure you of my group’s readiness to play the most constructive possible role in the future agreement on the reunification of cyprus. that said, i would like to share with you some concerns. first on the economic situation of your country. in spite of the clear re-launching of economic growth in cyprus – four percentage points is quite significant in comparison to the much lower and slower economic growth in other member states – the commission has reported that inequality is one of the most alarming factors. inequality is rising not only in cyprus but at eu level too, and the austerity policies of the last decade, and the troika policy which played a devastating role in your country, have contributed to increasing the gap. let’s try to reverse the trend. it is timely to work on fighting this, so let’s work together, in each and every member state and at union level, on the social model: on a fair union that can face the challenges of populism and nationalism. it is true that nationalism and populism are on the rise, but let us tackle the poverty and inequality that constitute fertile ground for those extreme political trends. mr president, i have a serious concern about something which is quite alarming for both security and social reasons, namely the ‘citizenship by investment’ programme. you are providing european citizenship to nationals of third countries and, looking at the breakdown of those who benefit from this programme, i think you should work on winding it down and stopping it – and this is not to intervene in any way in your internal decisions. mr president, as a romanian, and knowing that romania will soon hold the rotating council presidency, i’m deeply convinced that full and sincere cooperation among all member states will provide the future eu summit in sibiu with a good result for europe. the future of the union is based, as you rightly said, on unity and solidarity: a future of the union which diminishes frustrations and divisions and ensures, for all of us, that there will be no double standards in the union. thank you once again for your contribution. i am absolutely convinced that cyprus will remain one of the most active contributors to unity and to a prosperous future in our union. (applause)
in writing. let me begin by expressing my regret at the terrorist attack in strasbourg yesterday and my condolences to the families of those affected. you have spoken here, mr president, of the need for a europe united geographically, politically and economically. you also said that populism and terrorism are on the rise, and i would say euroscepticism and extremism are on the rise. and since the theme is 'the future of europe', i would like to ask you, as a member of the european council, what do you think about the way the council works? the council holds back decisions, cancels parliament's work many times, just because a head of state objects. consider that the 'unanimity' decision-making system should be continued. how can we talk about a united europe if the council is breaking the rules and dividing europe into schengen and the new schengen, ignoring the schengen regulation for eight years? how can we talk about the single market if it is differently accessible to citizens and businesses? mr. president, i'd like to ask you again what your views are on the asylum and immigration system? is the eu able to ensure the security of its citizens? i believe in a europe that does not discriminate and that guarantees the safety of its citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur and all the technical staff. in accordance with rule 59, as rapporteur i would like to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiation. once again, i thank all of you for your vote.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to propose the matter be referred back to the committees responsible for interinstitutinal negotiation, in accordance with rules 59a, 69c and 69f.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this interesting debate. i would like to conclude by expressing, on behalf of the commission, my gratitude to ms o’reilly for the consistently good cooperation between the commission, her and her services, and the constructive approach. this cooperation is a key element for improving the administration of the eu, and to ensure that our citizens get the good administration that they deserve.
ombudsman. – mr president, i would like to thank the members for all of their observations and also for their appreciation of the work of my office, which i will pass on to my colleagues who work so hard with the complaints and the investigations that we do. i always find this debate very inspiring, because it gives me a sense of the issues that we’re working on in the office that are of our particular interest to you, and also it shows me that some of the issues that we have laid particular emphasis on – such as council transparency – have also found significant resonance right across the parliament. i noted the comment of mr mandl about anti-semitism and suggesting that the european network of ombudsmen take a greater interest in that, and i would like to assure him that that is something that we are actually doing: increasingly, some of the network ombudsmen have that specific task, and i have suggested that that is an area that we could discuss at our seminar in brussels next year. on council transparency: yes, on the opacity of decision-making, i think ms auken pointed to the fact that this is really about the exercising of every citizen’s right to participate in our democracy, and of course that is the cornerstone of the inquiry and that is essentially why we’re doing it. a number of members talked about our inquiry – not an own-initiative inquiry, but because we got complaints in relation to it – on the appointment of the new secretary—general of the commission. the commission has responded to us, and i shall be very shortly responding to them. i was interested in a comment by mr csáky acknowledging that my office can’t do everything, and also acknowledging the difficulty that there is sometimes in getting some of my recommendations fully accepted. i should point out that, depending on the year, between 80% and 90% of recommendations are accepted, but there are some that aren’t accepted. this can be an issue because in most member states, with the standards of administration that we see in the eu, it is a relatively rare event that an ombudsman’s recommendation is not accepted. i think it doesn’t mean that you have to make recommendations that are so easy that everybody accepts them; i think you have to be a little bit brave and not shy away from difficult recommendations. but when there are particularly sensitive ones, then it is important that i get the support of parliament, and i think that that puts pressure on it. i recognise the members talking about brexit. yes, i have looked for opportunities that i can appropriately use in my office to support citizens in relation to that. i was pleased that the mapping exercise has been published, and i will continue to work on it and i take note of the other comments that were made. so thank you again, members, and thank you president for this opportunity to present my work. i’m really deeply grateful for the support that i get from parliament for the work that we carry out on behalf of the citizens. (applause)
in writing. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in ensuring the transparency and impartiality of decision-making processes and the eu administration, in order to successfully protect citizens' rights. i am concerned that the majority of inquiries in 2017 continue to be on transparency, accountability and public access to information (20,6%) and on service culture (16,8%) and respect for procedural rights (16,5%). in the context of the multiple crises and challenges facing the european union today, all european institutions should ensure full transparency in decision-making and lobbying and the highest standards of ethics and accountability. moreover, the european court of justice has confirmed that the principles of publicity and transparency are inherent in the eu legislative process and citizens must be able to follow the decision-making process within the institutions and have access to all relevant information in order to fully exercise their democratic rights. i believe that there is a need for full transparency of the decision-making process at the level of the european union, since in a system based on the principle of democratic legitimacy, all institutions must be accountable to public opinion for their actions.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i spoke a year ago about the activities of the committee on petitions in the previous year, and i said that the largest number of petitions per capita came from romania and greece. romania is followed by the large member states, germany, italy and spain. unfortunately, nothing has changed in this respect. in 2017, 5.2% of petitions came from romania - fourth - and 3.7% from greece - sixth. romania has already overtaken the uk in this area in the previous year, which may be a cause for serious concern. it is also interesting that when looking at the nationality of the applicants, the order does not change, but the proportions do: 6,8% of the applicants are romanian and 4% are greek. these facts give cause for confidence, both because romanian and greek citizens are increasingly exercising their rights as eu citizens and petitioning the european parliament, and because these figures also highlight the fact that, in addition to the large member states, there is a very high number of petitions from romania and greece, which means that these two member states deserve special attention from the european parliament. the activities of the committee on petitions in 2017 also show that a very large number of petitions submitted concern the issues of fundamental rights and the administration of justice. in addition to environmental protection, the european union has a lot to do in this respect, since citizens have a legitimate expectation that european law should apply everywhere in the eu in the same way. therefore, the council, and thus the member states, must pay more attention to the handling of petitions, in addition to the european commission. this is what citizens ultimately expect from the european institutions: to solve the problems they point out to us. if we can't do that, we can't hide behind various legal explanations and lose the trust of the citizens.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the situation of migrants at the eu border with bosnia and herzegovina (2018/2971 ((rsp)).
this is less a question than a comment, but, in any case, would you like to listen to the second question and then respond to both of them, or would you like to respond now?
mr president, as the permanent rapporteur on bosnia, i have of course followed what is happening in this country with regard to migrants. i met minister mektić a few months ago and i encouraged him throughout the period to manage the situation. of course, at this time, when winter has come, the situation of migrants with causes is delicate. add to this the problem of the migrants being refused entry from croatia and there are attempts to politicize the issue. i also saw a colleague here from the extreme right group saying that the salvation would come from putin's man in bosnia and herzegovina, from the newly elected president dodik. this doesn't make any sense. i think we need to help croatia, as we have already done - the commission has sent a lot of money there - and calm the overheated spirits of the politicians a bit.
mr president, commissioner, i will start with what you said: the difficult situation for the local population. i think we should not rush to blame either bosnia and herzegovina or croatia. i think that the european institutions need to think that they have not regulated, but, above all, that they are not applying very well everything that we talk about in migration and asylum procedures. we must not forget that terrorist attacks occur almost daily. behold, i have lived these days this thing. are the states ready? why, for so many days, have they failed to catch him? hundreds and even thousands of members of the police force failed to catch an attacker. so i think it is very important to have on the agenda of the council and the commission a very rigorous analysis: how migration, asylum is applied in practice, to protect the european population and, of course, to respect human rights. but here, we're not talking about legal migration, people fleeing the war zone, but we're talking about economic migration, which is totally unregulated.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran, in particular the case of nasrin sotoudeh (2018/2967 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
blue-card question. – thank you very much, dear colleague. indeed, probably we should have to look in a more balanced way at the situation. on one side, the fact that the egyptian authorities don’t respect human rights, civil rights and non—governmental organisations; on the other side, they cooperate with the european union on fighting terrorism, radicalisation, and so on and so forth. but don’t you think – because we have here the commissioner for development – that european union should have to use a very important leverage with all these countries, because we give them lots of money for development projects? this should have to be used when these countries – including tanzania, which we are going to speak about later – are doing all these things that are against european union values.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr peterlem, for this report, because i think it is extremely important and i am glad that the text was finally adopted in the ambitious form it was originally envisaged, because it is necessary to have more than just economic relations with japan, to have japan not only as an economic partner but as a key country in asia. it's a big democracy, a strong economy, and in today's world, when we're fighting the challenges of the 21st century, with terrorism, with global problems, we need global and strong economies and democracies to work together more, and not just in the economic sphere. i am therefore very pleased that this document has been adopted and i hope that it will lead to a further deepening of the links between the countries of the european union and japan, and, as i emphasize, not just in the economic field.
mr. president, what more do we need to do to effectively prevent and investigate terrorism? first, give europol investigative powers to prevent and investigate terrorism, cybercrime, organised crime and money laundering. now, europol is a specialised counter-terrorism agency, but it can only give support to member states if they ask for it, and some don't ask for it. it can do strategy, it can do data analysis, but it can't do investigative work. terrorism and terrorist financing are cross-border and as such a single european agency, europol, would be more effective in carrying out investigations than investigations carried out by member states on the basis of criminal cooperation. the investigation powers also obviously need to come with a financial supplement for europol, but we need effective counter-terrorism. thank you. thank you.
mr president, the greatest threat to the security of the union is the kremlin's propaganda and, in particular, the actions of the russian federation, which seek to divide and dismember the european union and the states not subject to moscow. the actions of the russian federation would not have existed and do not exist without the complicity of some member states and other states. to stop russia from acting destructively in the common foreign and security policy of the union, it would be useful to abandon the unanimity rule. the recent hostilities in the sea of azov, as well as the use of fake news in the coverage of protests in france, belgium or the netherlands, call for a firm response from the union. illegal annexations, the migration crisis, cybercrime are all dangers that no member state can face alone. little bit of divide and rule.
member of the commission. – mr president, the prevention, control and eradication of african swine fever (asf) is a high priority for the european union. african swine fever poses a serious risk to the entire european union pig farming and pork sector, which is the largest exporter of pork and one of the biggest pork producers worldwide. the situation is being closely monitored by the commission. since the disease was first identified in europe, the commission has taken significant actions close to the eu borders to fight it. record human and financial resources have been used to address this global challenge. let me address each of the questions you raised. firstly, you ask how the commission will ensure all activities by the competent authorities are tightly coordinated. let me underline that the commission has always coordinated the eu response since before the first case of asf was identified. these efforts have intensified over time. member states should ensure enhanced interinstitutional cross—sectoral and cross—border coordination. this will help efficiently control and prevent disease spread. member states and relevant eu stakeholders are continuously working with the commission to develop and review the european union’s strategic approach on asf and this legislation. this strategy covers all aspects of the disease from poor animal health and biosecurity aspects, to the management of wild boar, from road transport to customs controls and to awareness campaigns. the commission organises regular meetings with ministers every half year, with chief veterinary officers and veterinary experts, hunters, farmers, environmental experts. at conferences and other events we have presented all our steps over the four years at regular meetings. the next of such meetings will be next week in brussels where all eu member state ministers of agriculture and the environment have been jointly invited to discuss the issues – wild boar management strategy, biosecurity in forests and biosecurity in farming, and also possibilities to understand the environmental situation of wild boar population. in these four years, i have reported about the issue to most of the national parliaments of the interested countries. i have visited all the countries, i had meetings with all committees of agriculture, european affairs, social affairs, discussing those issues together. the commission is also driving member states’ efforts to effectively control the eu’s external borders to limit the risk of human—mediated spread, and precise instructions have been sent in this respect to customs around the eu. the risk of the so—called human factor was recently highlighted in the letter to transport ministers which i jointly signed with my college violeta bulc. awareness campaigns are being carried out in affected regions, on main european union highways and at eu borders. they highlight the risk of long—distance drivers discarding infected pork products along main highways and the importance of active and passive surveillance. active and passive surveillance should be done in the whole of europe. the importance of this prevention control has been raised in several meetings with member states at all levels, including the highest executive and political ones. the commission remains fully committed to performing audits and fact—finding missions to ensure harmonious implementation and enforcement of european union measures. it has convened biannual ministerial meetings on african swine fever since 2015. the next meeting, the first ministerial conference, will be held in brussels on 19 december. let me assure you that the commission will continue to promote and coordinate prevention and a high level of preparedness, control and eradication of african swine fever in eu member states. your second question concerned what steps the commission plans to take to better control and eradicate the disease. this includes financial assistance to affected farmers. let me underline here that the knowledge, science, legislation, technical and financial tools, exist in the eu to properly face asf. eu co—financing is provided to member states and is essential to prevent and eradicate disease. awareness—raising initiatives can also be co—financed in member states where no disease is present to prevent its spread via travellers, hunters or other risk groups. around eur 95 million has been allocated to asf for 2013-2018. let me also stress the commission initiative relied on sound, scientific advice and recent experience. it will continue to coordinate a number of activities at eu level to prevent, control and eradicate the disease. currently this includes: political coordination; organising regular ministerial meetings; adoption of a review of specific asf legislation, including regionalisation measures in the eu; development of a harmonised eu strategic approach on asf management audits and fact-finding missions, including preparedness, immediate assistance, on-the-spot experts for affected member states from experts in the eu veterinary emergency team; international cooperation, including active participation and promotion of the global framework for transboundary diseases under the world organisation for animal health; coordination and financial support for scientific research into asf, asking scientists to develop vaccines – around eur 25 million are now dedicated to research; and development of specific projects in neighbouring countries such as moldova and ukraine. we are now cooperating in border regions. your third question concerns what the commission is doing to tackle disproportionate bans in third countries on eu export of pigs, pigmeat and pig products from affected member states. on this, the commission has been communicating proactively with the main eu trading partners to provide full transparency on the asf situation and the comprehensive measures it has taken based on international standards. my last meeting was in china discussing issues about porkmeat exports. regionalisation measures are proving effective and successful within the eu whenever disease outbreaks occur. these target affected areas and result in trade restrictions from those areas, leaving the rest of the eu unaffected. no outbreak has been reported in the eu following the legal movement of domestic pigs or meat. in its bilateral contacts the commission calls upon trading partners to recognise eu regionalisation measures for animal disease outbreaks. these are aligned with the international standards promoted by world organisations for animal health. avoiding unjustified trade barriers is an important priority for the commission. all relevant commission services cooperate closely on this, and i would like to mention here the wto case, which was successfully launched against the russian ban. let me underline that the commission is committed to further drive eu efforts to tackle asf. my services are ready to find ways to enhance coordination with member states and stakeholders. this will help optimise the eu response and pool all available resources to control disease and prevent its diffusion.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate those who made today's debate possible, which i consider to be of particular importance. i also thank the european commission, in particular commissioner phil hogan, for the support they have given to farmers in romania affected by this virus. unfortunately, in my country, farmers in this sector have been extremely affected by the african swine fever virus. of course, the compensation has come and will come from the european union, but i don't think that this state of affairs should really please us. i appreciate that prevention mechanisms are insufficient and need to be diversified and strengthened so that they are much more effective. the european commission, and i stress this, the european commission must not be satisfied with simply assisting the member states. it must actively involve and hold them accountable when they do not comply with minimum measures. we have to consider that this virus is extremely aggressive, it can survive for years in various forms, such as frozen meat or in the ground, it can be easily transported on the wheels of cars, by migratory birds or wild animals. but it is extremely important, and i stress this, to maintain the pig herds at a level that is optimal for the biological balance, and here hunters play an important role. unfortunately, not all mechanisms are available today to actively engage in reducing their numbers and member states should take urgent action to do so. at the same time, the european commission must understand that in combating this virus, burning corpses is the most effective and quickest measure. i therefore believe that an infrastructure should be created to this end, including mobile burners purchased with european funds, which can be used in areas where the african swine fever virus is present. i also strongly urge the european commission to allocate sufficient money to intensify research activities so that we have effective vaccines against this virus on the market immediately.
